Risk Factors An investment in our common shares involves risk. The acquisition of Giant has significantly changed the nature and scope of our operations. As a result, the risks we face have changed as well. In addition to the other information in this report and our other filings with the SEC, you should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating us and our business. The risks described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks that are not yet known to us or that we currently think are immaterial also could impair our business, financial condition, or results of operations. If any of the risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common shares could decline. The price volatility of crude oil, other feedstocks, refined products, and fuel and utility services has had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on our earnings and cash flows. Our earnings and cash flows from operations depend on the margin above fixed and variable expenses (including the cost of refinery feedstocks, such as crude oil) at which we are able to sell refined products. Refining margins historically have been volatile, and are likely to continue to be volatile, as a result of a variety of factors, including fluctuations in the prices of crude oil, other feedstocks, refined products, and fuel and utility services. In particular, our refining margins were substantially lower in the fourth quarter of 2007 as compared to the first three quarters of the year due to substantial increases in feedstock costs and lower increases in gasoline prices. In recent years, the prices of crude oil, other feedstocks and refined products have fluctuated substantially. Our average cost per barrel of crude oil for 2007 was $74.42, compared to $65.19 for 2006, and $55.10 for 2005. Prices of crude oil, other feedstocks and refined products depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including the supply of and demand for crude oil, other feedstocks, gasoline and other refined products. Such supply and demand are affected by, among other things: • changes in global and local economic conditions; • demand for crude oil and refined products, especially in the U.S., China and India; • worldwide political conditions, particularly in significant oil producing regions such as the Middle East, West Africa and Latin America; • the level of foreign and domestic production of crude oil and refined products and the level of crude oil, feedstocks and refined products imported into the U.S., which can be impacted by accidents, interruptions in transportation, inclement weather or other events affecting producers and suppliers; • U.S. government regulations; • utilization rates of U.S. refineries; 14 Table of Contents • changes in fuel specifications required by environmental and other laws, particularly with respect to oxygenates and sulfur content; • the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, to maintain oil price and production controls; • development and marketing of alternative and competing fuels; • pricing and other actions taken by competitors that impact the market; • product pipeline capacity, including the Longhorn pipeline, as well as Kinder Morgan’s expansion (completed in 2007) of its East Line, both of which could increase supply in certain of our service areas and therefore reduce our margins; • accidents, interruptions in transportation, inclement weather or other events that can cause unscheduled shutdowns or otherwise adversely affect our plants, machinery or equipment, or those of our suppliers or customers; and • local factors, including market conditions, weather conditions and the level of operations of other refineries and pipelines in our service areas. Volatility has had, and may continue to further have, a negative effect on our results of operations to the extent that the margin between refined product prices and feedstock prices narrows further, as was the case at the end of 2007. The nature of our business requires us to maintain substantial quantities of crude oil and refined product inventories. Crude oil and refined products are commodities. As a result, we have no control over the changing market value of these inventories. Because our inventory of crude oil and refined product is valued at the lower of cost or market value under the “last-in, first-out”, or LIFO, inventory valuation methodology, if the market value of our inventory were to decline to an amount less than our LIFO cost, we would record a write-down of inventory and a non-cash charge to cost of products sold. The valuing of the Giant inventory required to be done as a result of the acquisition of Giant may make this more likely to occur in the future. In addition, the volatility in costs of fuel, principally natural gas, and other utility services, principally electricity, used by our refineries affects operating costs. Fuel and utility prices have been, and will continue to be, affected by factors outside our control, such as supply and demand for fuel and utility services in both local and regional markets. Natural gas prices have historically been volatile. Typically, electricity prices fluctuate with natural gas prices. Future increases in fuel and utility prices may have a negative effect on our results of operations. We may not realize the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of Giant Industries, Inc. Giant suffered three fires at its refineries in the year prior to the acquisition, and as a result, the insurance costs for these refineries increased and the terms of the insurance coverage have been adversely affected. These refineries also suffered increased costs associated with several major capital projects. In addition to the risks ordinarily associated with a significant acquisition, we are exposed to risks arising from these events and other operational risks that may affect these legacy Giant assets differently than they currently affect us. Although we expect to realize strategic, operational and financial benefits as a result of the Giant acquisition, we cannot predict whether and to what extent such benefits will be achieved. In particular, the success of the Giant acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize anticipated refinery efficiencies and cost savings from assuming control of Giant’s businesses. No assurances can be given that we will be able to achieve these efficiencies and cost savings. In addition, we will face certain challenges as we integrate Giant’s operations into our business. In particular, the Giant acquisition has significantly expanded our geographic scope, the types of business in which we are engaged, the number of our employees and the number of refineries we operate, thereby presenting us with significant challenges as we work to manage the substantial increases in scale resulting from the acquisition. We must integrate a large number of systems, both operational and administrative. Delays in this process could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, expenses, operating results and financial condition. In addition, events outside of our control, including changes in state and federal regulation and laws as well as economic trends, also could adversely affect our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from the Giant acquisition. We can give no assurance that our acquisition of Giant will perform in accordance with our expectations. We can give no assurance that our expectations with regards to integration and synergies will materialize. Our failure to successfully integrate and operate these legacy Giant assets, or to resolve any issues arising from the declaration of force majeure under the Statoil contract, and to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, could adversely affect our operating, performing and financial results. See Item 1. “Business — Refining Segment — Yorktown Refinery — Raw Material Supply.” 15 Table of Contents We have a limited operating history as a stand-alone company, and our previous financial statements may not be indicative of future performance. Fiscal year 2004 was the first full year in which we owned and operated our integrated refinery in El Paso. In addition, we acquired Giant on May 31, 2007. In light of our acquisition of the other half of the El Paso refinery in August 2003 and Giant in May 2007, our financial statements only reflect the impact of the acquisitions since those dates and therefore make comparisons with prior periods difficult. As a result, our limited historical financial performance makes it difficult for shareholders to evaluate our business and results of operations to date and to assess our future prospects and viability. Furthermore, our brief operating history has resulted in revenue and profitability growth rates that may not be indicative of our future results of operations. As a result, the price of our common stock may be volatile. If the price of crude oil increases significantly or our credit profile changes, it could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and limit our ability to purchase enough crude oil to operate our refineries at full capacity. We rely in part on borrowings and letters of credit under our $800.0 million revolving credit facility, (increased from $500.0 million in February 2008), to purchase crude oil for our refineries. Changes in our credit profile could affect the way crude oil suppliers view our ability to make payments and induce them to shorten the payment terms of their invoices with us or require additional support such as letters of credit. Due to the large dollar amounts and volume of our crude oil and other feedstock purchases, any imposition by our creditors of more burdensome payment terms on us may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to make payments to our suppliers, which could hinder our ability to purchase sufficient quantities of crude oil to operate our refineries at planned rates. In addition, if the price of crude oil increases significantly, we may not have sufficient capacity under our revolving credit facility, or sufficient cash on hand, to purchase enough crude oil to operate our refineries at planned rates. A failure to operate our refineries at planned rates could adversely affect our earnings and cash flows. The dangers inherent in our operations could cause disruptions and could expose us to potentially significant losses, costs or liabilities. Any significant interruptions in the operations of any of our refineries could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our operations are subject to significant hazards and risks inherent in refining operations and in transporting and storing crude oil, intermediate products, and refined products. These hazards and risks include, but are not limited to, the following: • natural disasters; • fires; • explosions; • pipeline ruptures and spills; • third-party interference; • disruption of natural gas deliveries under our interruptible natural gas delivery contract for the El Paso refinery; • disruptions of electricity deliveries; and • mechanical failure of equipment at our refineries or third-party facilities. Any of the foregoing could result in production and distribution difficulties and disruptions, environmental pollution, personal injury or wrongful death claims, and other damage to our properties and the properties of others. There is also risk of mechanical failure and equipment shutdowns both in general and following unforeseen events. Furthermore, in such situations, undamaged refinery processing units may be dependent on or interact with damaged process units and, accordingly, are also subject to being shut down. Our refineries consist of many processing units, several of which have been in operation for a long time. One or more of the units may require unscheduled downtime for unanticipated maintenance or repairs, or our planned turnarounds may last longer than anticipated. Scheduled and unscheduled maintenance could reduce our revenues and increase our costs during the period of time that our units are not operating. Our refining activities are conducted at our El Paso refinery in Texas, the Yorktown refinery in Virginia, and our two refineries in New Mexico. The refineries constitute a significant portion of our operating assets, and our refineries supply a significant portion of our fuel to our retail operations. Prior to our acquisition of Giant, there was one fire incident at the Yorktown refinery and two fire incidents at the Gallup refinery in late 2006. Because of the significance to us of our refining operations, the occurrence of any of the events described above could significantly disrupt our production and 16 Table of Contents distribution of refined products, and any sustained disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to run our Four Corners refineries at increased rates. In 2005, Giant purchased an inactive pipeline running from Southwest New Mexico to Northwest New Mexico. The pipeline has been upgraded to transport crude oil from Southeast New Mexico to the Four Corners region. While this additional supply of crude oil was intended to allow us to run our Four Corners refineries at increased rates, we may not be able to do so. These refineries had been running at less than full capacity for a number of years and there is no assurance that the refinery units will be able to run at increased rates. We could experience business interruptions caused by pipeline shutdown. Our El Paso refinery, which is our largest refinery, is dependent on a 450-mile pipeline owned by Kinder Morgan, for the delivery of all of its crude oil. Because our crude oil refining capacity at the El Paso refinery is approaching the delivery capacity of the pipeline, our ability to offset lost production due to disruptions in supply with increased future production is limited due to this crude oil supply constraint. In addition, we will be unable to take advantage of further expansion of the El Paso refinery’s production without securing additional crude oil supplies or pipeline expansion. We also deliver a substantial percentage of the refined products produced at the El Paso refinery through three principal product pipelines. Any extended, non-excused downtime of our El Paso refinery could cause us to lose line space on these refined products pipelines if we cannot otherwise utilize our pipeline allocations. We could experience an interruption of supply or delivery, or an increased cost of receiving crude oil and delivering refined products to market, if the ability of these pipelines to transport crude oil or refined products is disrupted because of accidents, governmental regulation, terrorism, other third-party action, or any other events beyond our control. A prolonged inability to receive crude oil or transport refined products on pipelines that we currently utilize could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also have a pipeline system that delivers crude oil to our Four Corners refineries and a pipeline that delivers natural gas liquids to our Gallup refinery. The Four Corners refineries are dependent on the crude oil pipeline system for the delivery of the crude oil necessary to run the refineries at increased rates. If the operation of the pipeline is disrupted because of accidents, governmental regulation, terrorism, other third-party action, or any other events beyond our control, we would not receive the crude oil necessary to run the refineries at increased rates. A prolonged inability to transport crude oil on the pipeline system could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain rights-of-way for our crude oil pipeline system must be renewed periodically, including some that have expired, which are in the process of renewal, and others that expire in the next few years. We expect that substantial lead time will be required to negotiate and complete renewal of these rights-of-way and that the costs of renewal for certain of the rights-of-way may be significant. Our inability to successfully renew these rights-of-way would negatively impact our ability to use the crude oil pipeline systems, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Severe weather, including hurricanes, could interrupt the supply of some of our feedstocks. Crude oil supplies for the El Paso refinery come from the Permian Basin in Texas and New Mexico and therefore are generally not subject to interruption from severe weather, such as hurricanes. We, however, obtain certain of our feedstocks for the El Paso refinery, such as alkylate, and some refined products we purchase for resale, by pipeline from Gulf Coast refineries. We also rely on transported feedstocks to produce a portion of our Phoenix Clean Burning Gasoline, or CBG, and other refined products. In addition, we currently depend on rail shipments of sulfuric acid to and from acid regeneration facilities in Louisiana to conduct our El Paso refining operations. These Gulf Coast refineries and acid regeneration facilities are subject to damage or production interruption from hurricanes or other severe weather. If our supply of feedstocks or sulfuric acid is interrupted for the El Paso refinery, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely impacted. Our Yorktown refinery is located on land that lies along the York River in York County, Virginia. It is situated adjacent to its own deep-water port on the York River. All of the crude oil used by the refinery is delivered by crude oil tankers and most of the finished products sold by the refinery are shipped out by barge, with the remaining amount shipped out by truck or rail. As a result of its location, the refinery is subject to damage or interruption of operations and deliveries of both crude oil and finished products from hurricanes or other severe weather. A prolonged interruption of operations or deliveries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Competition in the refining and marketing industry is intense, and an increase in competition in the areas in which we sell our refined products could adversely affect our sales and profitability. We compete with a broad range of refining and marketing companies, including certain multinational oil companies. Because of their geographic diversity, larger and more complex refineries, integrated operations and greater resources, some of our competitors may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions, to compete on the basis of price, to obtain crude oil in times of shortage and to bear the economic risks inherent in all phases of the refining industry. In addition, based on the strong fundamentals for the global refining industry, capital investments for refinery expansions and new refineries in international markets have increased, which may result in greater U.S. imports of refined products. We are not engaged in the petroleum exploration and production business and therefore do not produce any of our crude oil feedstocks. Certain of our competitors, however, obtain a portion of their feedstocks from company-owned production. Competitors that have their own production are at times able to offset losses from refining operations with profits from producing, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. In addition, we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual consumers. If we are unable to compete effectively with these competitors, both within and outside of our industry, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Longhorn refined products pipeline, which was completed in late 2004, runs approximately 700 miles from the Houston area of the Gulf Coast to El Paso and has an estimated maximum capacity of 225,000 bpd. This pipeline provides Gulf Coast refiners and other shippers with improved access to West Texas and New Mexico. In addition, Kinder Morgan completed and placed into service its East Line expansion that increases pipeline capacity from El Paso to Tucson and Phoenix, Arizona. The expansion increases capacity on the East Line to over 200,000 bpd. Any additional or modified supply provided by these pipelines could lower prices and increase price volatility in areas that we serve and could adversely affect our sales and profitability. Portions of our operations in the areas we operate may be impacted by competitors’ plans, as well as plans of our own, for expansion projects and refinery improvements that could increase the production of refined products in the Southwest region. In addition, we anticipate that lower quality crude oils, which are typically less expensive to acquire, can and will be processed by our competitors as a result of refinery improvements. These developments could result in increased competition in the areas in which we operate. We may incur significant costs to comply with environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. Our operations and properties are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental and health and safety regulations governing, among other things, the generation, storage, handling, use and transportation of petroleum and hazardous substances, the emission and discharge of materials into the environment, waste management, characteristics and composition of gasoline and diesel fuels. If we fail to comply with these regulations, we may be subject to administrative, civil and criminal proceedings by governmental authorities, as well as civil proceedings by environmental groups and other entities and individuals. A failure to comply, and any related proceedings, including lawsuits, could result in significant costs and liabilities, penalties, judgments against us or governmental or court orders that could alter, limit or stop our operations. In addition, new environmental laws and regulations, including new regulations relating to alternative energy sources and the risk of global climate change, new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, increased governmental enforcement or other developments could require us to make additional unforeseen expenditures. There is growing consensus that some form of regulation will be forthcoming at the federal level in the United States with respect to greenhouse gas emissions (including carbon dioxide) and such regulation could result in the creation of substantial additional costs in the form of taxes or required acquisition or trading of emission allowances. Many of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly stringent, and the cost of compliance with these requirements can be expected to increase over time. We are not able to predict the impact of new or changed laws or regulations or changes in the ways that such laws or regulations are administered, interpreted or enforced. The requirements to be met, as well as the technology and length of time available to meet those requirements, continue to develop and change. To the extent that the costs associated with meeting any of these requirements are substantial and not adequately provided for, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, has issued rules pursuant to the Clean Air Act that require refiners to reduce the sulfur content of gasoline and highway diesel fuel by various specified dates. We are incurring substantial costs to comply with the EPA’s low sulfur rules. The Yorktown refinery is subject to a compliance plan agreed to by the EPA that modified the timetable for the Yorktown and El Paso refineries to comply with the rules and requires the Yorktown refinery to produce specified volumes of compliant product by various dates. Failure to produce these specified volumes 18 Table of Contents required by the Yorktown compliance plan has resulted, and could result in the future, in us having to purchase credits and/or sell more high sulfur heating oil than otherwise would be the case. At most times, high sulfur heating oil sells for a lower margin than ultra low sulfur diesel fuel. Failure to comply with the Yorktown compliance plan could also result in the EPA modifying or revoking the compliance plans or assessing penalties. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have capital needs for which our internally generated cash flows and other sources of liquidity may not be adequate. If we cannot generate cash flow or otherwise secure sufficient liquidity to support our short-term and long-term capital requirements, we may not be able to comply with certain environmental standards by the current EPA-mandated deadlines or pursue our business strategies, in which case our operations may not perform as well as we currently expect. We have substantial short-term and long-term capital needs, including those for capital expenditures that we will make to comply with the low sulfur content specifications of the Tier II gasoline standards and on- and off-road diesel laws and regulations. Our short-term working capital needs are primarily crude oil purchase requirements, which fluctuate with the pricing and sourcing of crude oil. We also have significant long-term needs for cash, including those to support our expansion and upgrade plans, as well as for regulatory compliance. Our operations involve environmental risks that could give rise to material liabilities. Our operations, and those of prior owners or operators of our properties, have previously resulted in spills, discharges or other releases of petroleum or hazardous substances into the environment, and such spills, discharges or releases could also happen in the future. Past or future spills related to any of our operations, including our refineries, product terminals or transportation of refined products or hazardous substances from those facilities, may give rise to liability (including strict liability, or liability without fault, and cleanup responsibility) to governmental entities or private parties under federal, state or local environmental laws, as well as under common law. For example, we could be held strictly liable under the Comprehensive Environmental Responsibility, Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA, for contamination of properties that we currently own or operate and facilities to which we transported or arranged for the transportation of wastes or by-products for use, treatment, storage or disposal, without regard to fault or whether our actions were in compliance with law at the time. Our liability could also increase if other responsible parties, including prior owners or operators of our facilities, fail to complete their clean-up obligations. Based on current information, we do not believe these liabilities are likely to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, but in the event that new spills, discharges or other releases of petroleum or hazardous substances occur or are discovered or there are other changes in facts or in the level of contributions being made by other responsible parties, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may face liability for alleged personal injury or property damage due to exposure to chemicals or other hazardous substances located at or released from our refineries or otherwise related to our current or former operations. We may also face liability for personal injury, property damage, natural resource damage or for clean-up costs for the alleged migration of contamination or other hazardous substances from our refineries to adjacent and other nearby properties. We are involved in a number of MTBE lawsuits and in a “hot fuel” lawsuit. Lawsuits have been filed in numerous states alleging that MTBE, a blendstock used by many refiners in producing specially formulated gasoline, has contaminated water supplies. MTBE contamination primarily results from leaking underground or aboveground storage tanks. The suits allege MTBE contamination of water supplies owned and operated by the plaintiffs, who are generally water providers or governmental entities. The plaintiffs assert that numerous refiners, distributors, or sellers of MTBE and/or gasoline containing MTBE are responsible for the contamination. The plaintiffs also claim that the defendants are jointly and severally liable for compensatory and punitive damages, costs, and interest. Joint and several liability means that each defendant may be liable for all of the damages even though that party was responsible for only a small part of the damages. As a result of the acquisition of Giant, certain of our subsidiaries are defendants in approximately 40 of these MTBE lawsuits pending in Virginia, Connecticut, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and New Mexico. Due to Giant’s historical operations in New Mexico, including retail sites, there is potentially greater risk in connection with the New Mexico litigation than in the litigation in the Eastern states where Giant has only operated since 2002 and has no retail operations. In addition, Western has been named as a defendant in the lawsuit filed in New Mexico. Western understands that the case has been transferred to the Southern District of New York by the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation and that an 19 Table of Contents amended complaint has been filed. Western has not been served with a summons and complaint, nor has Western made an appearance in this litigation. Western also has been named as a defendant in a lawsuit filed by the State of New Jersey related to MTBE. Western has never done business in New Jersey and has never sold any products in that state or that could have reached that state. Because potentially applicable factual and legal issues have not been resolved, we have yet to determine if a liability is probable and we cannot reasonably estimate the amount of any loss associated with these matters. Accordingly, we have not recorded a liability for these lawsuits. In March 2007, a class action lawsuit was filed in New Mexico naming numerous retail suppliers of motor fuel as defendants, including certain of our subsidiaries. Among other things, the lawsuit alleges that, by consciously selling gasoline at a temperature greater than 60° Fahrenheit, the defendants are depriving consumers of the full amount of energy that should be delivered when gasoline is delivered at a cooler temperature. Plaintiffs seek an unspecified amount of damages and also seek to require the defendants to install temperature-adjustment devices at the pumps. Similar class action lawsuits have been filed in several other jurisdictions, and have been consolidated for pretrial proceedings in a single multi-district litigation. Because potentially applicable factual and legal issues have not been resolved, we have yet to determine if a liability is probable and if it can be reasonably estimated. Accordingly, we have not recorded a liability for this lawsuit. We could incur substantial costs or disruptions in our business if we cannot obtain or maintain necessary permits and authorizations. Our operations require numerous permits and authorizations under various laws and regulations, including environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. These authorizations and permits are subject to revocation, renewal or modification and can require operational changes, which may involve significant costs, to limit impacts or potential impacts on the environment and/or health and safety. A violation of these authorization or permit conditions or other legal or regulatory requirements could result in substantial fines, criminal sanctions, permit revocations, injunctions and/or refinery shutdowns. In addition, major modifications of our operations could require modifications to our existing permits or expensive upgrades to our existing pollution control equipment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2007, our total debt was $1,583.5 million and our stockholders’ equity was $756.5 million. We currently have an $800.0 million revolving credit facility (increased from $500.0 million in February 2008). As of December 31, 2007, we had net availability under this facility of $92.9 million due to $117.1 million in outstanding letters of credit and direct borrowings of $290.0 million. If the increase of our revolving line of credit had been in place at December 31, 2007, our availability would have been increased to $392.9 million. Our level of debt may have important consequences to you. Among other things, it may: • limit our ability to use our cash flow, or obtain additional financing, for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; • restrict our ability to pay dividends; • require a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments; • limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry conditions; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and • increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions and, to the extent of our outstanding debt under our floating rate debt facilities, the impact of increases in interest rates. We cannot assure you that we will continue to generate sufficient cash flow or that we will be able to borrow funds under our revolving credit facility in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our debt or meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements. If we cannot do so, due to borrowing base restrictions or otherwise, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt, or obtain additional financing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance our debt, sell assets, or borrow more money on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In addition, our ability to incur additional debt will be restricted under the covenants contained in our revolving credit facility and term loan facility. 20 Table of Contents Covenants and events of default in our debt instruments could limit our ability to undertake certain types of transactions and adversely affect our liquidity. Our revolving credit facility and term loan facility contain covenants and events of default that may limit our financial flexibility and ability to undertake certain types of transactions. For instance, we are subject to negative covenants that restrict our activities, including restrictions on: • creating liens; • engaging in mergers, consolidations and sales of assets; • incurring additional indebtedness; • providing guarantees; • engaging in different businesses; • making investments; • making certain dividend, debt and other restricted payments; • engaging in certain transactions with affiliates; and • entering into certain contractual obligations. We are also subject to financial covenants that require us to maintain specified financial ratios and to satisfy other financial tests. If we fail to satisfy the covenants set forth in either facility or another event of default occurs under either facility, the maturity of the loans could be accelerated or we could be prohibited from borrowing for our working capital needs and issuing letters of credit. If the loans are accelerated and we do not have sufficient cash on hand to pay all amounts due, we could be required to sell assets, to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, or to obtain additional financing. Refinancing may not be possible and additional financing may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. If we cannot borrow or issue letters of credit under the revolving credit facility, we would need to seek additional financing, if available, or curtail our operations. Our ability to pay dividends in the future is limited by contractual restrictions and cash generated by operations. We currently pay a quarterly dividend. We are a holding company, however, and all of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. Consequently, we will rely on dividends or advances from our subsidiaries to fund our dividends. The ability of our operating subsidiaries to pay dividends and our ability to receive distributions from those entities are subject to applicable local law and other restrictions including, but not limited to, restrictions in our revolving credit facility and term loan facility, including minimum operating cash and net worth requirements. Such laws and restrictions could limit the payment of dividends and distributions to us, which would restrict our ability to pay dividends. In addition, our payment of dividends will depend upon our ability to generate sufficient cash flows. Our board of directors will review our dividend policy periodically in light of the factors referred to above, and we cannot assure you of the amount of dividends, if any, that may be paid in the future. Changes to the current tax laws could result in the imposition of entity level state taxation on one of our operating subsidiaries, which would result in a reduction in our anticipated cash flow. One of our operating subsidiaries is organized as a partnership. A partnership generally is not subject to entity level state franchise tax in the jurisdictions in which it is organized or operates. Current laws may change, however, subjecting our partnership operating subsidiary to entity level state taxation. For example, in May 2006, the State of Texas enacted the Texas Margins Tax, or TMT, a new business tax that is imposed on our gross margin to replace the State’s current franchise tax. Our insurance policies do not cover all losses, costs or liabilities that we may experience. Our insurance coverage does not cover all potential losses, costs or liabilities. Due to the fires experienced at the Giant refineries in 2005 and 2006, the cost of insurance coverage in 2008 for the Yorktown and Four Corners refineries will be higher than the cost of insurance for the El Paso refinery. In addition to the higher costs, the deductibles for such coverage are higher and the waiting periods for business interruption coverage are longer. We could suffer losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of our existing insurance coverage. Our ability to obtain and maintain adequate insurance may be affected by conditions in the insurance market over which we have no control. In addition, if we experience any more insurable events, our annual premiums could increase further 21 Table of Contents or insurance may not be available at all. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance or the loss of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to successfully implement our business strategies. Our business strategies include the implementation of several capital expenditure projects designed to increase the productivity and profitability of our refineries. Many factors beyond our control may prevent or hinder our implementation of some or all of our planned capital expenditure projects or lead to cost overruns, including new or more expensive obligations to comply with environmental regulations, a downturn in refining margins, technical or mechanical problems, lack of available capital and other factors. Failure to successfully implement these profit-enhancing strategies on a timely basis or at all may adversely affect our business prospects and competitive position in the industry. In addition, a component of our growth strategy is to selectively acquire complementary assets in order to increase earnings and cash flow. Our ability to do so will be dependent upon several factors, including our ability to identify attractive acquisition candidates, consummate acquisitions on favorable terms, successfully integrate acquired assets, obtain financing to fund acquisitions and to support our growth, and many other factors beyond our control. Risks associated with acquisitions include those relating to: • diversion of management time and attention from our existing business; • challenges in managing the increased scope, geographic diversity and complexity of operations; • difficulties in integrating the financial, technological and management standards, processes, procedures and controls of an acquired business with those of our existing operations; • liability for known or unknown environmental conditions or other contingent liabilities not covered by indemnification or insurance; • greater than anticipated expenditures required for compliance with environmental or other regulatory standards or for investments to improve operating results; • difficulties in achieving anticipated operational improvements; • incurrence of additional indebtedness to finance acquisitions or capital expenditures relating to acquired assets; and • issuance of additional equity, which could result in further dilution of the ownership interest of existing stockholders. We may not be successful in acquiring additional assets, and any acquisitions that we do consummate may not produce the anticipated benefits or may have adverse effects on our business and operating results. If we lose any of our key personnel, our ability to manage our business and continue our growth could be negatively impacted. Our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management team, including our President and Chief Executive Officer, Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President-Refining, Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President-Legal, Chief Accounting Officer and Treasurer. We do not currently maintain key man life insurance with respect to any member of our senior management team. The loss or unavailability to us of any member of our senior management team or a key technical employee could significantly harm us. We face competition for these professionals from our competitors, our customers, and other companies operating in our industry. To the extent that the services of members of our senior management team would be unavailable to us for any reason, we would be required to hire other personnel to manage and operate our company. We may not be able to locate or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms, or at all. A substantial portion of our refining workforce is unionized, and we may face labor disruptions that would interfere with our operations. As of February 22, 2008, we employed 3,149 people, 240 of whom at the El Paso refinery and 169 at the Yorktown refinery were covered by collective bargaining agreements. The collective bargaining agreements both expire in 2009. In addition, employees at the Bloomfield refinery and the Gallup refinery recently voted to form unions during 2007. We have not yet finalized negotiations of the collective bargaining agreements with these employees. We may not be able to negotiate these agreements or renegotiate our existing collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms, or at all. A failure to do so may increase our costs. In addition, our existing labor agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage in the future, and any such work stoppage could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Terrorist attacks, threats of war or actual war may negatively affect our operations, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Terrorist attacks in the U.S. and the war in Iraq, as well as events occurring in response to or in connection with them, may adversely affect our operations, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Energy-related assets (which could include refineries and terminals such as ours or pipelines such as the ones on which we depend for our crude oil supply and refined product distribution) may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other possible targets. A direct attack on our assets or assets used by us could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, any terrorist attack could have an adverse impact on energy prices, including prices for our crude oil and refined products, and an adverse impact on the margins from our refining and marketing operations. In addition, disruption or significant increases in energy prices could result in government-imposed price controls. While we currently maintain some insurance that provides coverage against terrorist attacks, such insurance has become increasingly expensive and difficult to obtain. As a result, insurance providers may not continue to offer this coverage to us on terms that we consider affordable, or at all. Our operating results are seasonal and generally lower in the first and fourth quarters of the year. Demand for gasoline is generally higher during the summer months than during the winter months. In addition, oxygenate is added to the gasoline in our service areas during the winter months, thereby increasing the supply of gasoline. This combination of decreased demand and increased supply during the winter months can lower gasoline prices. As a result, our operating results for the first and fourth calendar quarters are generally lower than those for the second and third calendar quarters of each year. The effects of seasonal demand for gasoline are partially offset by seasonality in demand for diesel fuel, which in the Southwest region of the United States is generally higher in winter months as east-west trucking traffic moves south to avoid winter conditions on northern routes, and heating oil in the Northeast. We will be exposed to risks relating to evaluations of controls required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We evaluated our internal controls systems (excluding Giant) to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to audit, our internal controls over financial reporting (excluding Giant) as of December 31, 2007. We performed the system and process evaluation and testing (along with any necessary remediation) required to comply with the management assessment requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In addition, we are in the process of analyzing the internal controls of Giant, a wholly-owned subsidiary we acquired on May 31, 2007. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions relating to Giant’s internal controls or the impact of the same on our operations. Furthermore, upon completion of this process, we may identify control deficiencies of varying degrees of severity under applicable SEC and Public Company Accounting Oversight Board rules and regulations that remain unremediated. We are required to report, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute a “material weakness” or changes in internal controls that, or that are reasonably likely to, materially affect internal controls over financial reporting. A “material weakness” is a deficiency or combination of deficiencies that results in a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The report by us of a material weakness may cause investors to lose confidence in our financial statements, and our stock price may be adversely affected as a result. If we fail to remedy any material weakness, our financial statements may be inaccurate, we may face restricted access to the capital markets, and our stock price may be adversely affected. Our controlling stockholders may have conflicts of interest with other stockholders in the future. Mr. Paul Foster, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, and Messrs. Jeff Stevens (our Executive Vice President and a current director), Ralph Schmidt (our former Chief Operating Officer and a current director) and Scott Weaver (our Vice President, Assistant Secretary and a current director) own approximately 55% of our common stock. As a result, Mr. Foster and the other members of this group will be able to control the election of our directors, determine our corporate and management policies and determine, without the consent of our other stockholders, the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including potential mergers or acquisitions, asset sales, and other significant corporate transactions. So long as this group continues to own a significant amount of the outstanding shares of our common stock, they will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions, including whether to pursue or consummate potential mergers or acquisitions, asset sales, and other significant corporate transactions. The interests of Mr. Foster and the other members of this group may not coincide with the interests of other holders of our common stock. 23 Table of Contents We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NYSE rules and, as a result, will qualify for, and may rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, a group or another company is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements of the NYSE, including: • the requirement that a majority of our board of directors consist of independent directors; • the requirement that we have a nominating/corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; and • the requirement that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities. We presently do not have a majority of independent directors on our board and are relying on the exemptions from the NYSE corporate governance requirements set forth in the first bullet point above. Accordingly, you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 