Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our IMPCO U.S. operations currently has substantial debt that we may be unable to service. Our existing capital resources together with cash flows from operating activities are sufficient to fund our worldwide operations for the next 12 months. However, there are differences in the liquidity and cash flow needs of our two operating segments, BRC operations (“BRC”) and IMPCO operations (“IMPCO”). Our existing capital resources together with cash flows from operating activities are sufficient to fund BRC for the next 12 months. In addition, with respect to IMPCO, our existing capital resources together with cash flows from operating activities are sufficient to fund our international operations of IMPCO for the next 12 months. However, the U.S. operations of IMPCO, or IMPCO U.S., bears the majority of our corporate expenses and has significant debt service requirements under the intercompany MTM loan and the LaSalle senior credit facility. As of December 31, 2007, IMPCO U.S. had aggregate outstanding indebtedness of $21.1 million, including debt obligations IMPCO U.S. owes to MTM of approximately $14.4 million under a loan agreement and additional unsecured short-term loans owed to MTM of $2.4 million, which have been eliminated in consolidation. On January 8, 2008, we borrowed an additional $0.2 million on an unsecured short-term loan from MTM. Our other subsidiaries, primarily BRC, have aggregate outstanding indebtedness of $14.1 million. As of April 10, 2008, IMPCO U.S. owes $12.6 million under the loan agreement with MTM and is current on the principal and interest payments and also owes $2.6 million on the short-term loans with MTM which were due March 31, 2008. As of the date of this filing, these amounts have not yet been repaid. IMPCO U.S. is technically in default on the short-term loans, which are not secured or guaranteed. MTM’s Italian statutory auditor has advised us that they are not willing to permit extensions on the unsecured short-term loans. To date, MTM has not taken any action to force payment. The MTM loan has significant debt service requirements, which include quarterly payments of $1.0 million during 2008 of which IMPCO U.S. paid the first quarter payment on April 10, 2008. If we are unable to obtain additional or replacement financing or draw dividends from our subsidiaries, we will not be able to pay the quarterly payments due under the MTM loan. If IMPCO U.S. were to default on future payments or other terms of the loan agreement, MTM could accelerate the MTM loan causing it to become due in full and/or pursue the personal guarantee by Mariano Costamagna (the Company’s Chief Executive Officer) and Pier Antonio Costamagna (Director of Mechanical Engineering of MTM), whom are referred to jointly as Founders of BRC. The Founders of BRC have jointly and severally guaranteed IMPCO’s performance under the MTM loan because of certain requirements arising under Italian law. In return for their guarantees, we have pledged our equity interest in BRC as collateral in the event the guarantee is utilized. If IMPCO U.S. fails to perform the terms of the MTM loan and Messrs. Costamagna are required to fulfill their guarantees, they may require us to reimburse them for their payments as guarantors, or they may take possession of our equity interest in BRC, or both. If they were to take possession of the BRC equity interest in total or partial satisfaction of their rights under the pledge agreement, we would lose our rights in the net assets and operations in BRC. This would have a material adverse effect upon our earnings and our financial position. Total assets and net assets for BRC operations at December 31, 2007 were $168.4 million and $91.1 million, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2007, revenues and operating income for BRC was $138.8 million and $16.6 million, respectively. IMPCO U.S. operations has historically depended on borrowings under our LaSalle senior credit facility to fund our liquidity and capital needs. Our IMPCO U.S. operation’s LaSalle senior credit facility has a maximum borrowing limit of $7.0 million, which was limited based on our eligible accounts receivable and our eligible inventory as of December 31, 2007 to approximately $4.8 million. Of that amount, $3.3 million was outstanding as of December 31, 2007, leaving approximately $1.5 million unused and available. On January 31, 2008, the maximum borrowing limit was reduced to $6.25 million and on March 18, 2008, the borrowing limit on inventory was reduced to the lesser of $1.25 million or 24% of our eligible inventory subject to a reduction by 1% each week. As of December 31, 2007, the outstanding principal amount under the credit facility was $3.3 million. As of March 31, 2008, the outstanding principal amount under the credit facility was $2.8 million. This credit facility expires on June 30, 2008. LaSalle has indicated its intent to not renew our credit facility in the long term, and they are not willing to extend the maturity of our credit facility in the short term beyond that date if we need additional time to transition our debt to a new lender. Without the debt service requirements of the MTM loan, based on IMPCO U.S.’s current liquidity and capital needs, IMPCO U.S. expects to be able to repay the amounts owing under the LaSalle senior credit facility when the obligation comes due and expects to be able to continue to fund its liquidity and capital needs using cash flows from operations. However, if IMPCO U.S. does not have sufficient cash flows from operations to repay the amounts owing under the LaSalle senior credit facility, LaSalle may foreclose on certain of our U.S. assets or take other legal action against us that, alone or in the aggregate, may have a material adverse effect on us. 11 Table of Contents Our debt subjects us to numerous risks, including the following: • we will be required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest on our debt, thereby reducing cash available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements; • our leverage may increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions and may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less leveraged; • our debt service obligations may limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; • our level of debt may make it difficult for us to raise additional financing on terms satisfactory to us; and • if we do not comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt instruments, any such failure could, if not cured or waived, have a material adverse effect on our ability to fulfill our obligations and on our business or prospects generally, including the possibility that our lenders might foreclose on our assets. We have recently been in default under our LaSalle senior credit facility, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to avoid events of default or noncompliance in the future or obtain amendments to this facility, if needed. We have had to seek a series of waivers of and amendments to our LaSalle senior credit facility since the beginning of 2007. Some of the waivers were necessary due to the delay in filing our annual reports on Form 10-K for fiscal years 2007 and 2006 and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the first two quarters of 2007 as a result of voluntary internal review of our historical stock option grants and accounting for certain costs associated with inventory of some of our foreign subsidiaries and the consequent restatement of some of our consolidated financial statements. However, we have also had to seek waivers of and amendments to specified financial ratios and specific financial tests required by LaSalle, such as the requirement that we generate specified amounts of pre-tax income. If we are unable to secure any necessary future waivers, LaSalle could require us to repay the amounts owed under the credit agreement immediately. If we are unable to make a required repayment, LaSalle could foreclose on our assets and our business could be adversely impacted. We cannot assure investors that LaSalle will continue to agree to grant further or continuing waivers in the future. In addition, waivers may be on terms that are different from and more onerous to us than the current terms of the senior credit facility. For example, in connection with granting us waivers in 2007, LaSalle has required that we make no payments to MTM under the loan between IMPCO and MTM. In order to avoid defaulting on the MTM loan, we have had to borrow additional principal amounts from MTM and use the additional indebtedness to make the required debt service payments. The terms of our debt may severely limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business. Our debt agreements contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on our operations. Among other things, these restrictions limit our ability to: • change our Chief Executive Officer; • incur liens or make negative pledges on our assets; • merge, consolidate or sell our assets; • incur additional debt; • pay dividends, redeem capital stock or prepay other debt; • make investments and acquisitions; • make capital expenditures; or • amend our debt instruments and certain other material agreements. Mariano Costamagna and Pier Antonio Costamagna have guaranteed our performance under the MTM loan and, in connection with those guarantees, we have pledged our BRC equity interest and made certain other concessions to them. Because of certain requirements arising under Italian law, Mariano Costamagna (our Chief Executive Officer) and Pier Antonio Costamagna (Director of Mechanical Engineering of MTM), whom we refer to jointly as Founders of BRC, have jointly and severally guaranteed IMPCO’s performance under the MTM loan. In order to secure their recourse in the event that guaranty is exercised and the Founders are required to make payments of the amounts due, we have pledged to the Founders our entire interest in BRC. If IMPCO fails to perform under the terms of the MTM loan and the Founders are required to fulfill their guarantees, the Founders may require us to reimburse them for their payments as guarantors, or they may take possession of our equity interest in BRC, or both. If the Founders were to take possession of the BRC equity interest in total or partial satisfaction of their rights under the pledge 12 Table of Contents agreement, we would lose our rights in the net assets and operations of BRC. This would have a material adverse effect upon our earnings and our assets. Total assets and net assets for BRC operations at December 31, 2007 were $168.4 million and $91.1 million, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2007, revenues and operating income for BRC was $138.8 million and $16.6 million, respectively. The terms of the MTM loan require IMPCO to repay MTM the principal according to the following schedule, with a $5.0 million “balloon payment” of accrued interest and unpaid principal due on December 31, 2009: Quarters Ending QuarterlyPaymentAmount Payment PerPeriod December 31, 2007 – payment deferred to March 31, 2008 and paid on April 10, 2008 $ 800,000 $ 800,000 March 31, 2008 – payment made on April 10, 2008 1,000,000 1,000,000 April 1, 2008 through December 31, 2008 1,000,000 3,000,000 January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2009 1,150,000 4,600,000 Balloon Payment due December 31, 2009 5,000,000 Total payments $ 14,400,000 Recent amendments to the LaSalle senior credit facility have prevented us from making some payments under the MTM loan since April 2007. In order to avoid defaulting on the MTM loan by our failure to make the required payments, we have had to borrow additional principal amounts from MTM and use the additional indebtedness to make the required debt service payments under the MTM loan. As a result, we are able to technically meet our obligations under the MTM loan and we have been able to avoid a default under that loan, but we have not reduced our overall debt obligations. As of January 8, 2008, we owe MTM an additional $2.6 million in short term loans in addition to the amounts shown in the payment schedule above. These amounts were due March 31, 2008 and as of the date of this filing had not yet been repaid. IMPCO U.S. is technically in default on the short-term loans, which are not secured or guaranteed. MTM’s Italian statutory auditor has advised us that they are not willing to permit extensions on the unsecured short-term loans. To date, MTM has not taken any action to force payment. MTM’s Italian statutory auditor has advised us that they may be unwilling to permit further extensions on the MTM loan and may seek to pursue all legal remedies available to it under Italian law as a fiduciary of MTM and MTM’s stakeholders, including acceleration of the MTM loan causing it to become due in full and/or pursuit of the Founders of BRC’s personal guarantee of such loan. As discussed above, we provided the Founders of BRC with a pledge of the stock of BRC in exchange for their personal guarantee of the MTM loan. In the event the founders of BRC are required to pay any amounts owing on their personal guarantee of the MTM loan, the Founders of BRC may seek to exercise their remedies under the BRC stock pledge, including the requirement for us to reimburse them for their payments as guarantors or the pursuit of ownership of a portion of or all of BRC, or both. If they were to take possession of the BRC equity interest in total or partial satisfaction of their rights under the pledge agreement, we would lose our rights in the net assets and operations of BRC. This would have a material adverse effect upon our earnings and our financial position. Recent internal reviews of our historical stock option granting practices and accounting practices at certain of our foreign subsidiaries, the resulting restatements of certain of our historical consolidated financial statements, investigations by the SEC and related events have had, and will continue to have, an adverse effect on us. On March 18, 2008, Fuel Systems announced that we have incorrectly accounted for certain costs associated with inventory at some of our foreign subsidiaries and will need to restate our historical consolidated financial statements. As described in the Explanatory Note immediately preceding Part I, Item 1, and in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K, we have restated our previously filed 2005 and 2006 historical consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K. In addition, on March 19, 2007, Fuel Systems announced that a Special Committee of its Board of Directors, with the assistance of independent legal counsel, was conducting a review of our stock option practices covering the period from 1996 to 2006. As described in the Explanatory Note immediately preceding Part I, Item 1, and in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in the December 31, 2006 Form 10–K, the Special Committee reached a conclusion that incorrect measurement dates were used for financial accounting purposes for stock option grants in certain prior periods. As a result, we have recorded additional non-cash stock-based compensation expense, and related tax effects, related to certain stock option grants, and we have restated certain previously filed consolidated financial statements included in the December 31, 2006 Form 10–K. Both of these internal reviews, the resulting restatements of our consolidated financial statements and related activities have resulted in substantial expenses for legal, accounting, tax and other professional services, have diverted management’s attention from the day-to-day business and could in the future harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 13 Table of Contents Furthermore, while we believe that we have made appropriate judgments in determining the correct revised measurement dates for our historical stock option grants and have appropriately corrected other option accounting errors that have been identified, the SEC may disagree with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported the financial impact. Accordingly, there is a risk we may have to further restate prior consolidated financial statements, amend prior filings with the SEC or take other actions not currently contemplated. In addition, our internal reviews and restatements of our prior consolidated financial statements have exposed us to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. We are unable to predict what action, if any, the SEC or other regulatory bodies may pursue or what consequences such an action may have on us. We are also unable to predict the likelihood of or potential outcomes from litigation, other regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions, if any, relating to our past stock option practices and the need to restate our historical consolidated financial statements. The resolution of these matters could be time-consuming and expensive, further distract management from other business concerns and harm our business. Furthermore, if we were subject to adverse findings in litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed, which could harm our business and financial condition. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to meet the appropriate deadlines or extended deadlines for our SEC filings in the future which results in our inability to use “short form” registration statements. We filed our annual SEC reports late in each of the last five years. We have also filed several of our quarterly reports late during this period. While we have ultimately filed some of those reports under extended deadlines, others we have not. Our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 was delayed due to a restatement of prior period consolidated financial statements for certain adjustments to inventory at some of our foreign subsidiaries as described in the Explanatory Note immediately preceding Part I, Item 1, and in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K. Our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 and our Forms 10-Q for the periods ended March 31, 2007 and June 30, 2007 were significantly delayed due to our voluntary review of historical stock option grants. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to meet the appropriate deadlines or extended deadlines for our SEC filings in the future. As a result of our late filings, we are currently unable to file “short form” registration statements if we were to issue additional securities to the public, thereby increasing the cost of any securities issuances that we might consider. Furthermore, additional delays in our filings could jeopardize our common stock’s listing status on the Nasdaq Stock Market. If we do not comply with the requirements of the Nasdaq Stock Market, our common stock may be delisted from the Nasdaq Stock Market. We have received letters from the staff of the Nasdaq Stock Market stating that, as a result of the delayed filing of this Form 10-K, we are subject to delisting from the Nasdaq Stock Market. To date, Nasdaq has granted an exception to the listing requirement, pending further review. With the filing of this report, we believe that we have remedied our non-compliance with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14). However, there can be no assurance that the Listing Council will decide to allow our common stock to remain listed on Nasdaq Stock Market. In addition, if the SEC disagrees with the manner in which we have restated our 2005 consolidated financial statements, we could experience further delays in filing subsequent SEC reports that could result in delisting of our common stock from the Nasdaq Stock Market. If our common stock is delisted from the Nasdaq Stock Market, it would subsequently trade on the Pink Sheets, which may reduce the price of the our common stock and the liquidity available to our stockholders. In addition, the trading of our common stock on the Pink Sheets would materially adversely affect our access to the capital markets, and the limited liquidity and potentially reduced price of our common stock could materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital through alternative financing sources on terms acceptable to the company or at all. We have a history of significant cash outflows that may limit our ability to grow and may materially and adversely impact our prospective revenue and liquidity. We have experienced net cash outflows. At December 31, 2007, our cash and cash equivalents totaled approximately $26.8 million and our working capital was $70.6 million. At December 31, 2006, our cash and cash equivalents totaled approximately $11.5 million and our working capital was $57.1 million. We have experienced significant cash outflows as a result of building inventory levels to reduce lead time and costs incurred in connection with the voluntary historical stock option investigation and restatement. Based upon our eligible accounts receivable and our eligible inventory as of December 31, 2007, our funds available for borrowing under our senior secured credit facility were approximately $4.8 million, of which approximately $3.3 million was outstanding, leaving approximately $1.5 million unused and available. As of December 31, 2007, we had total stockholders’ equity of $135.1 million and an accumulated deficit of $102.7 million. If adequate funds are no longer available or are no longer available on acceptable terms, our ability to grow may be limited, which may have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. 14 Table of Contents Changes in stock option accounting rules may adversely impact our reported operating results prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, our stock price and our competitiveness in the employee marketplace. Technology companies in general and our company in particular have a history of depending upon and using broad based employee stock option programs to hire, to motivate and to retain employees in a competitive marketplace. Prior to the restatement of our consolidated financial statements included in the December 31, 2006 Form 10-K resulting from our voluntary review of our historical stock option grant practices, we had not previously recognized compensation expense for stock options issued to employees or directors, except in limited cases involving modifications of stock options. We instead disclosed in the notes to our consolidated financial statements information about what such charges would be if they were expensed. The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, adopted a new accounting standard that required us to record equity-based compensation expense for stock options and employee stock purchase plan rights granted to employees based on the fair value of the equity instrument at the time of grant. We recorded these expenses beginning with our first quarter of 2006, as required, and recorded approximately $0.4 million and $1.7 million in compensation expense for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The change in accounting rules increases reported net loss or, when we are profitable, decreases reported earnings. This may negatively impact our future stock price. In addition, this change in accounting rules could impact the likelihood of our using broad based employee stock option plans to reward employees and could result in a competitive disadvantage to us in the employee marketplace. However, we have not issued any stock options to employees since 2004 and, in 2006, our board of directors adopted a new bonus incentive plan that authorizes cash and restricted stock awards to employees, but does not authorize stock option awards. We are dependent on certain key customers, and the loss of one or more customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. A substantial portion of our business results from sales to key customers. In the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, no one customer exceeded 10% of our consolidated sales. Sales to our top ten customers during the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 accounted for approximately 39.7% and 36.5% of our consolidated sales, respectively. If several of these key customers were to reduce their orders substantially, we would suffer a decline in revenue and profits, and those declines could be material and adverse. We depend on a limited number of third-party suppliers for key materials and components for our products. We have established relationships with third party suppliers that provide materials and components for our products. A supplier’s failure to supply materials or components in a timely manner or to supply materials and components that meet our quality, quantity or cost requirements, combined with a delay in our ability to obtain substitute sources for these materials and components in a timely manner or on terms acceptable to us, would harm our ability to manufacture our products or would significantly increase our production costs, either of which would negatively impact our results of operations and business. In addition, we rely on a limited number of suppliers for certain proprietary die cast parts, electronics, software, catalysts as well as engines for use in our end products. In the year ended December 31, 2007, Power Solutions, Inc. supplied approximately 10.4%, of our purchase of raw materials and services, as compared to 11.8% in 2006. Approximately 36.9% and 38.2% of our purchases of raw materials and services during the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, were supplied by ten entities. We could incur significant costs in the event that we are forced to utilize alternative suppliers. Mariano Costamagna’s employment agreement and the terms of the MTM loan may limit our board of directors’ ability to effect changes in our senior management. Mariano Costamagna, BRC’s co-founder, our director, Chief Executive Officer and President, has entered into an employment agreement that is effective until May 31, 2009. Mariano Costamagna’s employment agreement provides for an initial base salary of $360,000 annually, as well as bonuses, benefits and expenses. If, during the term of his employment, we terminate Mr. Costamagna’s employment other than for “cause,” or if Mr. Costamagna resigns for “good reason,” we must pay Mr. Costamagna a severance payment equal to $5.0 million (subject to certain limited reductions if Mr. Costamagna sells more than 20% of the stock he has received in connection with our acquisition of BRC). The required severance payment may limit our board of directors’ ability to decide whether to retain or to replace Mr. Costamagna or to reallocate management responsibilities among our senior executives, a fact that may, in certain circumstances, have an adverse effect on our business, operations and financial condition. Moreover, the loan to us from MTM can be accelerated in the event that Mr. Costamagna’s employment is terminated for any reason (with limited exceptions for termination upon Mr. Costamagna’s death) or if we otherwise materially breach his employment agreement. Unionized labor disputes at original equipment manufacturer facilities can negatively affect our product sales. As we become more dependent on vehicle conversion programs with OEMs, we will become increasingly dependent on OEM production and the associated labor forces at OEM sites. For 2007 and 2006, direct OEM product sales accounted for 38.7% and 36.4% of IMPCO’s revenue, respectively. Labor unions represent most of the labor forces at OEM facilities. In the past, labor disputes have occurred at OEM facilities, which have adversely impacted our direct OEM product sales. Such labor disputes are likely to occur in the future and, if they do occur, will negatively impact our sales and profitability. 15 Table of Contents We face risks associated with marketing, distributing, and servicing our products internationally. In addition our operations in the United States, we currently operate in Italy, Australia, the Netherlands, Japan, Brazil and Argentina, and market our products and technologies in other international markets, including both industrialized and developing countries. During 2007 and 2006, approximately 23% and 22% of our revenue, respectively, was derived from sales to customers located within the United States and Canada, and the remaining 77% and 78%, respectively, was derived from sales in Asia, Europe, Latin America and Middle East where economics and fuel availability make our products more competitive. Additionally, approximately 80% of our employees and 73% of our approximately 140 distributors and dealers worldwide are located outside the United States. Our combined international operations are subject to various risks common to international activities, such as the following: • our ability to maintain good relations with our overseas employees and distributors and to collect amounts owed from our overseas customers; • expenses and administrative difficulties associated with maintaining a significant labor force outside the United States, including without limitation the need to comply with employment and tax laws and to adhere to the terms of real property leases and other financing arrangements in foreign nations; • exposure to currency fluctuations; • potential difficulties in enforcing contractual obligations and intellectual property rights; • complying with a wide variety of laws and regulations, including product certification, environmental, and import and export laws; • the challenges of operating in disparate geographies and cultures; • political and economic instability; and • restrictions on our ability to repatriate dividends from our subsidiaries. Some of our foreign subsidiaries have done and may continue to do business in countries subject to U.S. sanctions and embargoes, including Iran, and we have limited managerial oversight over those activities. From time to time, some of our foreign subsidiaries sell fuel delivery systems, related parts and accessories to customers in Iran, a country that is currently subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government and the United Nations and a country identified by the U.S. government as a terrorist-sponsoring state. Although these sanctions and embargoes do not prohibit our foreign subsidiaries from selling products and providing services in Iran, they do prohibit Fuel Systems and our domestic subsidiaries, as well as employees of our foreign subsidiaries who are U.S. citizens, from participating in, approving or otherwise facilitating any aspect of the business activities in that country. The constraints on our ability to have U.S. persons, including our senior management, provide managerial oversight and supervision over sales in Iran may negatively affect the financial or operating performance of such business activities. We have procedures in place to conduct these operations in compliance with applicable U.S. laws. However, failure to comply with U.S. laws in our foreign operations could result in material fines and penalties, damage to our reputation and a reduction in the value of our shares of common stock. In addition, our foreign subsidiaries’ activities in Iran could reduce demand for our stock among certain of our investors. Adverse currency fluctuations may hinder our ability to economically procure key materials and services from overseas vendors and suppliers, may affect the value of our debt, and may affect our profit margins. Because of our significant operations outside of the United States, we engage in business relationships and transactions that involve many different currencies. Exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the local currencies in these foreign locations where we do business can vary unpredictably. These variations may have an effect on the prices we pay for key materials and services from overseas vendors in our functional currencies under agreements that are priced in local currencies. If exchange rates with local currencies decline, our effective costs for such materials and services would increase, adversely affecting our profitability. Operating cash balances held at non-U.S. banks (which were 96.2% of our consolidated cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2007) are not federally insured and therefore may pose a risk of loss to us. Our financial results are significantly influenced by fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. 16 Table of Contents Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates can impact our financial results and cause net income and earnings per share to decline dramatically. We may be unable to effectively hedge our exposure to this risk or significantly reduce our foreign exchange risk. For example, in connection with MTM’s five-year $22.0 million loan agreement with IMPCO that is denominated in U.S. dollars, BRC recorded $1.6 million and $1.9 million in unrealized losses as a result of changes in foreign exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the euro during 2007 and 2006, respectively. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates in the future could impact the financial results and cause net income and earnings per share to decline dramatically. We may be unable to effectively hedge our exposure to this risk or significantly reduce our foreign exchange risk. BRC entered into a three-year foreign exchange forward contract on January 5, 2005 for the purpose of hedging the quarterly payments being made by IMPCO to BRC under the MTM loan leaving $13.6 million unhedged. However, we determined that the foreign exchange forward contract did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. We recognize the gains and losses in fair value of these agreements from fluctuations between the euro and U.S. dollar in other income (loss) in our consolidated statements of operations. In 2007 and 2006, BRC recognized approximately $0.1 million and $0.6 million income, respectively, as adjustments to the fair value of the foreign exchange forward contract. We derive income from unconsolidated foreign companies that we do not control. We may never realize any value from our investment in our unconsolidated foreign subsidiary WMTM Equipamento de Gases Ltd, and WMTM may be unable to pay on amounts owed to our consolidated subsidiary MTM for the purchase of components or its loan owing to us. Beginning April 1, 2005 and subsequent to the 100% acquisition of BRC, we recognize 50% of the earnings and losses of WMTM Equipamentos de Gases, Ltda, a Brazilian joint venture with an American partner, and 50% of the earnings and losses of MTE, S.r.L., an Italian company. A portion of our income is generated from the operations of these unconsolidated foreign subsidiaries in which we hold 50% interests. Although the agreements that govern our relationships with these entities provide us with some level of control over our investments, we do not have the ability to control their day-to-day operations or their management. As a result, we cannot control these entities’ ability to generate income. WMTM’s losses over the period of our investment have exceeded the amount of our investment in WMTM. In addition, our consolidated subsidiary MTM sells components to WMTM. During 2007 and the fourth quarter of 2006, we accounted for sales to WMTM on the cash basis; inventory was recorded on a consignment basis and revenue attributed to sales to WMTM was deferred until receipt of payment. As of December 31, 2007, the amount recorded as consigned inventory was $3.0 million and the amounts billed to WMTM but not yet collected totaled $3.6 million. Moreover, we extended the maturity date on our loan to WMTM ($4.4 million at December 31, 2007 of which we have impaired by $1.0 million) from January 31, 2007 to January 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2007, amounts due to us by WMTM aggregated to $8.0 million, of which $2.6 million is past due. We may never realize any value from our investment in WMTM, and WMTM may be unable to pay amounts owed to MTM for the purchase of components or its loan owing to us. We are highly dependent on certain key personnel. We are highly dependent on the services of Mariano Costamagna, our Chief Executive Officer, Roberto Olivo, General Manager of IMPCO, and Marco Seimandi, BRC’s Marketing Director. These three executives are extensively involved in, or directly or indirectly oversee, virtually every aspect of our day-to-day operations. Were we to lose the services of any of these executives, we would face a significant risk of declining revenue and/or operating income. Moreover, the loan to IMPCO from MTM can be accelerated in the event that Mariano Costamagna is terminated by us for any reason, with certain limitations for termination occasioned by his death or if we materially breach his employment agreement. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting that could cause investors to lose confidence in the reliability of our consolidated financial statements and result in a decrease in the value of our securities. Our management has identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007 arising from a combination of internal control deficiencies with respect to BRC as discussed in “Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting” in Item 9A. In addition, due to the identification of material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of December 31, 2007 our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective. Specifically, our management has identified the following material weaknesses: • Our 2006 annual report on Form 10-K identified a material weakness that we did not maintain effective internal control over the financial close process at BRC, our Italian subsidiary, and BRC did not have an adequate number of accounting personnel with sufficient technical expertise in U.S. GAAP. This material weakness related to lack of sufficient technical expertise in U.S. GAAP continues to exist as of December 31, 2007 at BRC and as a result, BRC does not have effective internal control over the financial close process. In 2007, management identified errors related to inventory valuations at BRC as well as at our subsidiaries in the Netherlands and Australia, which resulted in the restatement of our consolidated financial statements. Consequently, we have determined that the control deficiency related to lack of sufficient technical expertise in U.S. GAAP represents a material weakness in controls at our non-U.S. subsidiaries. 17 Table of Contents • We did not maintain effective IT controls at BRC, including system change management, segregation of duties and backup retention policies. We have determined that these control deficiencies, in the aggregate, represent a material weakness. We will continue to evaluate, upgrade and enhance our internal controls. Because of inherent limitations, our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements, errors or omissions. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal controls to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with our policies or procedures may deteriorate. We cannot be certain in future periods that other control deficiencies that may constitute one or more “significant deficiencies” (as defined by the relevant auditing standards) or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement or difficulty in implementing required new or improved controls, our business and results of operations could be harmed, the results of operations we report could be subject to adjustments, we could fail to be able to provide reasonable assurance as to our financial results or the effectiveness of our internal controls or meet our reporting obligations, and there could be a material adverse effect on the price of our securities. Moreover, because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Through the year ended December 31, 2007, we expended significant resources in connection with the Section 404 process. In future periods, we will likely continue to expend substantial amounts in connection with the Section 404 process and with ongoing evaluation of, and improvements and enhancements to, our internal control over financial reporting. These expenditures may make it difficult for us to control or reduce the growth of our general and administrative and other expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations and the price of our securities. Our business is directly and significantly affected by regulations relating to reducing vehicle emissions. If current regulations are repealed or if the implementation of current regulations is suspended or delayed, our revenue may decrease. If regulations relating to vehicle emissions are amended in a manner that may allow for more lenient standards, or if the implementation of such currently existing standards is delayed or suspended, the demand for our products and services could diminish, and our revenue could decrease. In addition, demand for our products and services may be adversely affected by the perception that emission regulations will be suspended or delayed. In addition, we rely on emissions regulations, the adoption of which is out of our control, to stimulate our growth. We are subject to governmental certification requirements and other regulations, and future more stringent regulations may impair our ability to market our products. We must obtain product certification from governmental agencies, such as the EPA and the California Air Resources Board, to sell certain of our products in the United States and must obtain other product certification requirements in Italy and other countries. A significant portion of our future sales will depend upon sales of fuel management products that are certified to meet existing and future air quality and energy standards. We cannot assure you that our products will continue to meet these standards. The failure to comply with these certification requirements could result in the recall of our products or civil or criminal penalties. Any new government regulation that affects our alternative fuel technologies, whether at the foreign, federal, state, or local level, including any regulations relating to installation and service of these systems, may increase our costs and the price of our systems. As a result, these regulations may have a negative impact on our revenue and profitability and thereby harm our business, prospects, results of operations or financial condition. Declining oil prices may adversely affect the demand for our products. We believe that our sales in recent periods have been favorably impacted by increased consumer demand promoted by rising oil prices. Reductions in oil prices may occur, and demand for our products could decline in the event of fluctuating, and particularly decreasing, market prices. Changes in tax policies may reduce or eliminate the economic benefits that make our products attractive to consumers. In some jurisdictions, such as the United States, Italy and Australia, governments provide tax benefits for clean-air vehicles, including tax credits, rebates and reductions in applicable tax rates. In certain of our markets, these benefits extend to vehicles powered by our systems. From time to time, governments change tax policies in ways that create benefits such as those for our customers. Reductions or eliminations in these benefits may adversely affect our revenue. 18 Table of Contents The potential growth of the alternative fuel products market will have a significant impact on our business. Our future success depends on the continued global expansion of the gaseous fuel industry. Many countries currently have limited or no infrastructure to deliver natural gas and propane. Major growth of the international markets for gaseous fuel vehicles is significantly dependent on international politics, governmental policies and restrictions related to business management. In the United States, alternative fuels such as natural gas currently cannot be readily obtained by consumers for motor vehicle use, and only a small percentage of motor vehicles manufactured for the United States are equipped to use alternative fuels. Users of gaseous fuel vehicles may not be able to obtain fuel conveniently and affordably, which may adversely affect the demand for our products. We do not expect this trend to improve in the United States in the foreseeable future. Our ability to attract customers and sell products successfully in the alternative fuel industry also depends significantly on the current price differential between liquid fuels and gaseous fuels. We cannot assure you that the global market for gaseous fuel engines will expand broadly or, if it does, that it will result in increased sales of our fuel system products. In addition, we have designed many of our products for gaseous fuel vehicles powered by internal combustion engines, but not for other power sources, such as electricity or alternate forms of power. If there is major growth in the market relating to those power sources, our revenue may not increase and may decline. We currently face and will continue to face significant competition, which could result in a decrease in our revenue. We currently compete with companies that manufacture products to convert liquid-fueled internal combustion engines to gaseous fuels. Increases in the market for alternative fuel vehicles may cause automobile or engine manufacturers to develop and produce their own fuel conversion or fuel management equipment rather than purchasing the equipment from suppliers such as us. In addition, greater acceptance of alternative fuel engines may result in new competitors. Should any of these events occur, the total potential demand for our products could be adversely affected and cause us to lose existing business. New technologies could render our existing products obsolete. New developments in technology may negatively affect the development or sale of some or all of our products or make our products obsolete. Our inability to enhance existing products in a timely manner or to develop and introduce new products that incorporate new technologies, conform to increasingly stringent emission standards and performance requirements, and achieve market acceptance in a timely manner could negatively impact our competitive position. New product development or modification is costly, involves significant research, development, time and expense and may not necessarily result in the successful commercialization of any new products. We have a significant amount of intangible assets that may become impaired, which could impact our results of operations. Approximately $13.1 million or 5.3% of our total assets at December 31, 2007 were net intangible assets, including technology, customer relationships, trade name, and approximately $46.5 million or 18.8% of our total assets at December 31, 2007 were goodwill that relates to our acquisitions, primarily from BRC. We amortize the intangible assets, with the exception of goodwill, based on our estimate of their remaining useful lives and their values at the time of acquisition. We are required to test goodwill for impairment at least on an annual basis, or earlier if we determine it may be impaired due to change in circumstances. We are required to test the other intangible assets with definite useful lives for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of the intangible assets may not be recoverable. If impairment exists in any of these assets, we are required to write-down the asset to its estimated recoverable value as of the measurement date. Such impairment write-downs may significantly impact our results of operations. Future sales of our common stock could adversely affect our stock price. Substantial sales of our common stock, including shares issued upon exercise of our outstanding options and warrants, in the public market or the perception by the market that these sales could occur, could lower our stock price or make it difficult for us to raise additional equity. As of December 31, 2007, we had 15,499,115 shares of common stock outstanding, excluding 13,683 shares issued but held by us as treasury stock. Except for the 3,450,659 shares held by Mariano Costamagna and his family members and affiliates, which are subject to the “volume”, “manner of sale” and other selling restrictions of Rule 144, all of these shares are currently freely tradable. As of December 31, 2007 up to 90,352 shares of our common stock were issuable upon exercise of warrants outstanding as of that date. Furthermore, as of December 31, 2007, up to 264,726 shares were issuable upon the exercise of options, of which 235,600 were vested and exercisable. Subject to applicable vesting and registration requirements, upon exercise of these options the underlying shares may be resold into the public market. In the case of outstanding options and warrants that have exercise prices less than the market price of our common stock from time to time, investors would experience dilution. We cannot predict if future sales of our common stock, or the availability of our common stock for sale, will harm the market price of our common stock or our ability to raise capital by offering equity securities. 19 Table of Contents Class action litigation due to stock price volatility or other factors could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. From January 1, 2007 through December 31, 2007, our stock price has fluctuated from a low of $12.60 to a high of $25.11. During 2006, our stock price fluctuated from a low of $9.96 to a high of $24.98. In the past, securities class action litigation often has been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. Companies in the technology industries are particularly vulnerable to this kind of litigation due to the high volatility of their stock prices. Accordingly, we may in the future be the target of securities litigation. Any securities litigation could result in substantial costs and could divert the attention and resources of our management. Our business is subject to seasonal influences. Operating results for any quarter are not indicative of the results that may be achieved for any subsequent quarter or for a full year. Many of the factors that impact our operating results are beyond our control and difficult to predict. They include seasonal work patterns due to vacations and holidays, particularly in our European manufacturing facilities, and fluctuations in demand for the end-user products in which our products are placed. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 