Item 1A. Risk Factors The following section includes the most significant factors that may adversely affect our business and operations. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and all information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before deciding to invest in our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We anticipate that we will continue to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future, and if we are unable to achieve and sustain profitability, the market value of our common stock will likely decline. We are a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company. We do not currently have any products approved for sale, and we continue to incur significant research and development and general and administrative expenses related to our operations. Our net loss for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 was $4.6 million and $3.1 million, respectively (we generated net income of $15.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2009). As of December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of $94.3 million. We expect to continue to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future. We expect these losses and our cash utilization to increase in the near term as we continue to conduct clinical trials for CCX140, CCX168, CCX872, CCX507 and CCX662 and conduct research and development of our other drug candidates. Glaxo Group Limited, or GSK, an affiliate of GlaxoSmithKline, has assumed all funding obligations for the further clinical development and commercialization of Traficet-EN and CCX354. If GSK exercises its option for further development and commercialization of our remaining drug candidate subject to the agreement, it will assume all funding obligations with respect to further clinical development of such drug candidate, but if it does not exercise such option, we will be responsible for such funding obligations. All of our products are in development and none has been approved for sale. To date, we have derived all of our revenues from up-front fees and milestone payments, other payments pursuant to our collaboration agreements and government grants and contracts for research and development. We do not anticipate that we will generate revenue from the sale of our products for the foreseeable future. In addition, if approved, we expect to incur significant costs to commercialize our drug candidates and our drugs may never gain market acceptance. If our drug candidates fail to demonstrate safety and efficacy in clinical trials, do not gain regulatory approval, or do not achieve market acceptance, we may never become profitable. Even if we achieve profitability in the future, we may not be able to sustain profitability in subsequent periods. If we are unable to achieve and sustain profitability, the market value of our common stock will likely decline. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing pharmaceutical products, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or whether we will become profitable. The commercial success of Traficet-EN depends, in large part, on the development and marketing efforts of GSK, and if GSK is unable to perform in accordance with the terms of our agreement, or is unable to obtain the required regulatory approvals for Traficet-EN, our potential to generate future revenue from this drug candidate would be significantly reduced and our business would be materially and adversely harmed. Since inception, we have invested a significant portion of our time and financial resources in the development of our most advanced drug candidate, Traficet-EN. We currently have three other drug candidates in clinical trials, but we anticipate that our ability to generate significant product revenues in the near term will depend primarily on the successful development, regulatory approval, marketing and commercialization of Traficet-EN by us or by GSK, which is subject to significant uncertainty. In particular, we rely on GSK to fund and conduct the current pivotal Phase III trials with respect to Traficet-EN. Any of the following events or factors could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue from the commercialization of Traficet-EN: • GSK may be unable to successfully complete the clinical development of Traficet-EN; • GSK must comply with additional requests and recommendations from the FDA, including additional clinical trials; 33 Table of Contents • GSK may not obtain all necessary approvals from the FDA and similar foreign regulatory agencies; • GSK may not commit sufficient resources to the development, regulatory approval, marketing and distribution of Traficet-EN; • Traficet-EN must be manufactured in compliance with requirements of the FDA and similar foreign regulatory agencies and in commercial quantities sufficient to meet market demand; • Traficet-EN may not achieve market acceptance by physicians, patients and third party payors; • Traficet-EN may not compete successfully against alternative products and therapies; and • We, GSK or any other pharmaceutical organization may independently develop products that compete with Traficet-EN. In order to obtain approval from the FDA of a new drug application, or NDA, for Traficet-EN, GSK will need to demonstrate through evidence from adequate and well-controlled clinical trials that Traficet-EN is safe and effective for each proposed indication. However, Traficet-EN may not be approved even though it achieved its specified endpoints in the current and/or future pivotal Phase III clinical trials intended to support an NDA which may be conducted by GSK. The FDA may disagree with the trial design and the interpretation of data from clinical trials, may ask GSK to conduct additional costly and time consuming clinical trials in order to obtain marketing approval or approval to enter into an advanced phase of development, or may change the requirements for approval even after it has reviewed and commented on the design for our clinical trials. The FDA may also approve Traficet-EN for fewer or more limited indications than GSK may request, or may grant approval contingent on the performance of costly post-approval clinical trials. In addition, the FDA may not approve the labeling claims that we believe are necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of Traficet-EN. If GSK or any of our future collaboration partners does not perform in the manner we expect or fulfill its responsibilities in a timely manner, or at all, the clinical development, regulatory approval, and commercialization efforts related to Traficet-EN could be delayed or terminated. It may be necessary for us to assume the responsibility at our own expense for the development of Traficet-EN. In that event, we would likely be required to limit the size and scope of one or more of our programs or increase our expenditures and seek additional funding and our potential to generate future revenue from Traficet-EN would be significantly reduced and our business would be materially and adversely harmed. If clinical proof-of-concept is not achieved with respect to our remaining drug candidate under our strategic alliance with GSK, if GSK does not exercise its option thereunder, if the further development and commercialization efforts of GSK are not successful with respect to drug candidates for which it does exercise its options thereunder, or if GSK terminates the alliance or a particular program thereunder, we will not receive any additional revenue under the alliance with respect to such programs and our results of operations and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. In August 2006, we entered into our strategic alliance with GSK. Under the terms of our agreement, we are responsible for the discovery and development of small molecule antagonists targeting four defined chemokine and chemo-attractant receptor targets (CCR9, CCR1, C5aR and ChemR23) and taking them through clinical proof-of-concept. If we demonstrate successful clinical proof-of-concept, GSK is entitled to options to exclusively license drug candidates that are subject to the collaboration and two defined back-up compounds for each drug candidate for further development and commercialization on a worldwide basis. The agreement contemplated up to six drug options, each of which covers a drug candidate against four defined targets, including Traficet-EN (CCR9), CCX354 (CCR1), CCX168 (C5aR) and CCX832 (ChemR23), and their associated back-up compounds. The other two drug options were for second generation drug candidates and their associated back-up compounds that would target any of the four collaboration targets. However, we and GSK chose not to nominate second generation drug candidates against any of the four defined targets during the agreement’s research term, which has expired. In addition, in February 2012, based on unblinded data from a recently completed Phase I clinical trial of CCX832, we and GSK determined not to further advance the 34 Table of Contents development of CCX832 or its two designated back-up compounds. GSK has already exercised its options to Traficet-EN and CCX354 and each of their two respective defined back-up compounds. Thus, GSK’s only remaining option is to CCX168 and its associated back-up compounds. In December 2009, GSK exercised its option under the agreement to obtain an exclusive license for the further development and commercialization of Traficet-EN, our CCR9 drug candidate, and two identified back-up compounds. As a result of GSK’s exercise of this option, we are entitled to receive (x) up to $82.0 million, in the aggregate, consisting of (1) a non-refundable option exercise fee of $35.0 million and (2) up to $47.0 million in the aggregate for the filing of an NDA in the United States and comparable filings in other territories, (y) up to $75.0 million in the aggregate for the regulatory approval of products for commercial sale in the United States and other territories and (z) up to $250.0 million in sales milestones. In January 2010, after GSK obtained Hart-Scott-Rodino clearance for its option exercise, it paid us the option exercise fee of $35.0 million and assumed sole responsibility for the further development and commercialization of Traficet-EN and its two designated back-up compounds, at its expense, subject to our specified co-development and commercial participation rights. In November 2011, GSK exercised its option under the agreement to obtain an exclusive license for the further development and commercialization of CCX354, our CCR1 drug candidate, and two identified back-up compounds. As a result of GSK’s exercise of this option, we are entitled to receive (x) up to $72.0 million, in the aggregate, consisting of (1) a non-refundable option exercise fee of $25.0 million and (2) up to $47.0 million in the aggregate for the filing of an NDA in the United States and comparable filings in other territories, (y) up to $75.0 million in the aggregate for the regulatory approval of products for commercial sale in the United States and other territories and (z) up to $125.0 million in sales milestones. In December 2011, GSK paid us the option exercise fee of $25.0 million and assumed sole responsibility for the further development and commercialization of CCX354 and its two designated back-up compounds, at its expense. There is no assurance that GSK will be successful in its further development and commercialization of CCX354 or that the relevant regulatory filing or approval or sales milestones can be achieved such that we will receive the related milestone payments. If a given proof-of-concept trial for our CCX168 drug candidate is successfully completed and GSK elects to exercise its option to such drug candidate, we would be entitled to receive, as with CCX354, (x) up to $72.0 million, in the aggregate, consisting of (1) an option exercise fee of $25.0 million and (2) up to $47.0 million in the aggregate for the filing of an NDA in the United States and comparable filings in other territories, (y) up to $75.0 million in the aggregate for the regulatory approval of products for commercial sale in the United States and other territories and (z) up to $125.0 million in sales milestones. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully complete a proof-of-concept trial for CCX168 or that the relevant regulatory filing or approval milestones can be achieved for any our programs so that we will receive the related option exercise fees and milestone payments. In addition, even if proof-of-concept trials for any of our drug candidates result in positive outcomes, GSK is under no obligation to exercise its option and we cannot assure you that GSK will exercise its remaining option, or that GSK will obtain Hart-Scott-Rodino clearance with respect to such option, to the extent that such approval is required. GSK may terminate the entire collaboration agreement or any collaboration program on a program-by-program basis for any reason upon 90 days prior written notice to us. The agreement or any program under the agreement may also be terminated for cause under certain circumstances, including material breach and insolvency. In addition, GSK may terminate its rights with respect to the licensed product if it determines in good faith, for any reason, to cease the development and commercialization of such product and provides us with a written notice of such intent. If GSK does not exercise its option with respect to our other drug candidate, terminates its rights with respect to a licensed product, or terminates the agreement: • we would not be entitled to receive the relevant option exercise fee or milestone payments; • we would owe GSK up to 5% royalties with respect to drug candidates covered by the agreement which we elected to subsequently commercialize, depending upon the stage of development at which such product commercialization rights reverted back to us; 35 Table of Contents • the development of our drug candidates subject to the agreement may be terminated or significantly delayed; • we may be required to hire additional employees and allocate scarce resources to the development and commercialization of drug candidates that were previously the subject of the GSK agreement and as a result our cash expenditures could increase significantly; • we would bear all of the risks and costs related to the further development and commercialization of drug candidates that were previously the subject of the GSK agreement, including the reimbursement of third parties; and • we may need to establish alternative collaboration arrangements, and we may not be able to do so, or may not be able to do so on terms which are acceptable to us, in which case we would likely be required to limit the size or scope of one or more of our programs or increase our expenditures and seek substantial additional funding. Any of these events would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The development of new drugs is a highly risky undertaking which involves a lengthy process, and our drug discovery and development activities therefore may not result in products that are approved by the applicable regulatory authorities on the time schedule we have planned, or at all. Our drug candidates are in the early stages of drug discovery or clinical trials and are prone to the risks of failure inherent in drug development. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, only four of our current drug candidates, Traficet-EN, CCX140, CCX354 and CCX168 have been tested in human beings. We will need to conduct significant additional preclinical studies and clinical trials before we can demonstrate that any of our drug candidates is safe and effective to the satisfaction of the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Preclinical studies and clinical trials are expensive and uncertain processes that take years to complete. For example, we incurred significant expenses related to the IND filing and the completed single ascending dose Phase I clinical trial for CCX915, our first generation CCR2 drug candidate, which did not advance into Phase II clinical trials because its pharmacokinetic properties in humans did not meet our expectations. Failure can occur at any stage of the process, and we cannot assure you that any of our drug candidates will result in commercially successful products. We cannot assure you that our ongoing clinical trials or any future clinical trial of any of our other drug candidates, will be completed on schedule, or at all, or whether our planned clinical trials will start in a timely manner. The commencement of our planned clinical trials could be substantially delayed or prevented by a number of factors, including: • delays or failures in obtaining sufficient quantities of the active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, and/or drug product; • delays or failures in reaching agreement on acceptable clinical trial agreement terms or clinical trial protocols with prospective sites; • delays or failures in obtaining institutional review board, or IRB, approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; • the need to successfully complete, on a timely basis, preclinical safety pharmacology studies; • the limited number of, and competition for, suitable sites to conduct the clinical trials; • the limited number of, and competition for, suitable patients for enrollment in the clinical trials; and • delays or failures in obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial. 36 Table of Contents The completion of our clinical trials could also be substantially delayed or prevented by a number of factors, including: • slower than expected rates of patient recruitment and enrollment; • failure of patients to complete the clinical trials; • failure of our third party vendors to timely or adequately perform their contractual obligations relating to the clinical trials; • inability or unwillingness of patients or medical investigators to follow our clinical trial protocols; • inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment; • termination of the clinical trials by one or more clinical trial sites; • unforeseen safety issues; • lack of efficacy demonstrated during clinical trials; • lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trials; • the need for unexpected discussions with the FDA or other foreign regulatory agencies regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials or the need to conduct additional trials; • unforeseen delays by the FDA or other foreign regulatory agencies after submission of our results; • an unfavorable FDA inspection of our contract manufacturers of API or drug product; and • inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold. Any failure or significant delay in completing clinical trials for our drug candidates would harm the commercial prospects for our drug candidates and adversely affect our financial results. Additionally, changes in regulatory requirements and guidance may occur and we may need to amend clinical trial protocols to reflect these changes. Amendments may require us to resubmit our clinical trial protocols to IRBs for reexamination, which may impact the costs, timing or successful completion of a clinical trial. If we experience delays in completion of, or if we terminate, any of our clinical trials, the commercial prospects for our drug candidates may be harmed and our ability to generate product revenues will be delayed. In addition, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of a drug candidate. If we are required to suspend or discontinue clinical trials due to side effects or other safety risks, or if we are required to conduct studies on the long-term effects associated with the use of our drug candidates, our efforts to commercialize our products could be delayed or halted. Our clinical trials may be suspended or terminated at any time for a number of safety-related reasons. For example, we may voluntarily suspend or terminate our clinical trials if at any time we believe that our drug candidates present an unacceptable safety risk to the clinical trial patients. In addition, IRBs or regulatory agencies may order the temporary discontinuation or termination of our clinical trials at any time if they believe that the clinical trials are not being conducted in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements, including if they present an unacceptable safety risk to patients. Administering any drug candidate to humans may produce undesirable side effects. The existence of undesirable side effects resulting from our drug candidates could cause us or regulatory authorities, such as the FDA, to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials of our drug candidates and could result in the FDA or other regulatory agencies denying further development or approval of our drug candidates for any or all targeted indications. This, in turn, could affect whether GSK exercises its remaining license option under our strategic alliance and could prevent us from commercializing our drug candidates. 37 Table of Contents Further, chemokine receptors and chemo-attractant receptors are a novel class of targets. As a result, we may experience unforeseen adverse side effects with our existing and future drug candidates, including Traficet-EN and CCX140. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, four of our current drug candidates have been tested in human beings. Although we have not observed significant harmful side effects in prior studies of Traficet-EN, CCX140 or our other drug candidates, later trials could reveal such side effects. The pharmacokinetic profile of preclinical studies may not be indicative of results in any clinical trial. For example, prior to commencing our preclinical studies of our CCX140 drug candidate, we studied another drug candidate that targeted CCR2, which we abandoned after pharmacokinetic results were not as favorable in humans as in earlier preclinical animal studies. We have not conducted studies on the long-term effects associated with the use of our drug candidates. Studies of these long-term effects may be required for regulatory approval and would delay our introduction of Traficet-EN, CCX140 or our other drug candidates into the market. These studies could also be required at any time after regulatory approval of any of our drug candidates. Absence of long-term data may also limit the approved uses of our products, if any, to short-term use. Some or all of our drug candidates may prove to be unsafe for human use. Even if our drug candidates do obtain regulatory approval they may never achieve market acceptance or commercial success. Even if we obtain FDA or other regulatory approvals, our drug candidates may not achieve market acceptance among physicians, patients and third party payors and, ultimately, may not be commercially successful. Market acceptance of our drug candidates for which we receive approval depends on a number of factors, including: • the efficacy and safety as demonstrated in clinical trials; • the clinical indications for which the drug is approved; • acceptance by physicians, major operators of clinics and patients of the drug as a safe and effective treatment; • the potential and perceived advantages of our drug candidates over alternative treatments; • the safety of drug candidates seen in a broader patient group, including its use outside the approved indications; • the cost of treatment in relation to alternative treatments; • the availability of adequate reimbursement and pricing by third parties and government authorities; • relative convenience and ease of administration; • the prevalence and severity of adverse side effects; and • the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts. Any failure by our drug candidates that obtain regulatory approval to achieve market acceptance or commercial success would adversely affect our financial results. The commercial success of CCX140 depends, in part, on our ability to develop and market the drug in North America and to find partners to co-develop and commercialize the drug outside North America, and if we fail in these initiatives, our ability to generate future revenue could be significantly reduced. If we successfully complete the Phase II program for our lead independent drug candidate, CCX140, we plan to initiate Phase III clinical trials either alone or together with a co-development partner. We plan to retain commercial rights to CCX140 in North America and find partners for co-development and commercialization outside North America. We have invested a significant amount of our time and financial resources in the 38 Table of Contents development of CCX140 and our ability to generate future revenue will depend, in part, on our ability to identify a co-development partner and the development, regulatory approval, marketing and commercialization of CCX140 by us and any future partners. Any of the following events or factors could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue from the commercialization of CCX140: • We may be unable to successfully complete the clinical development of CCX140; • Our lack of experience in commercializing and marketing drug products; • We may not have or be able to obtain sufficient financial resources to develop and commercialize CCX140; • We may not be able to identify a suitable co-development partner; • We or any of our future partners may fail to fulfill our responsibilities in a timely manner or fail to commit sufficient resources to the development, regulatory approval, and commercialization efforts related to CCX140; • We or any of our future partners must comply with additional requests and recommendations from the FDA, including additional clinical trials; • We or any of our future partners may not obtain all necessary approvals from the FDA and similar foreign regulatory agencies; • CCX140 must be manufactured in compliance with requirements of FDA and similar foreign regulatory agencies and in commercial quantities sufficient to meet market demand; • CCX140 may not achieve market acceptance by physicians, patients and third party payors; • CCX140 may not compete successfully against alternative products and therapies; and • We or any pharmaceutical company may independently develop products that compete with CCX140. We rely on third parties to conduct all our preclinical studies and clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize any of our drug candidates. We currently do not have the ability to independently conduct preclinical studies or clinical trials. We rely on medical institutions, clinical investigators, contract laboratories, collaborative partners and other third parties, such as clinical research organizations, or CROs, to conduct clinical trials on our drug candidates. The third parties with which we contract for execution of our clinical trials play a significant role in the conduct of these trials and the subsequent collection and analysis of data. These third parties are not our employees, and except for contractual duties and obligations, we have limited ability to control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. In particular, we rely on GSK to fund and conduct the current pivotal Phase III trials with respect to Traficet-EN. Although we rely on these third parties to conduct our preclinical studies and clinical trials, we remain responsible for ensuring that each of our preclinical studies and clinical trials is conducted in accordance with its investigational plan and protocol. Moreover, the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities require us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as current good clinical practices, or cGCPs, for conducting, monitoring, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to ensure that the data and results are scientifically credible and accurate and that the trial subjects are adequately informed of the potential risks of participating in clinical trials. In addition, the execution of preclinical studies and clinical trials, and the subsequent compilation and analysis of the data produced, requires coordination among various parties. In order for these functions to be carried out effectively and efficiently, it is imperative that these parties communicate and coordinate with one another. Moreover, these third parties may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. In most cases, these third parties may terminate their agreements with us upon 30 days prior written notice of a material breach by us that is not cured within 30 days. Many of these agreements may also be terminated by such third parties under certain other circumstances, including our insolvency or our failure to comply 39 Table of Contents with applicable laws. In general, these agreements require such third parties to reasonably cooperate with us at our expense for an orderly winding down of services of such third parties under the agreements. If the third parties conducting our clinical trials do not perform their contractual duties or obligations, experience work stoppages, do not meet expected deadlines, terminate their agreements with us or need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical trial protocols or cGCPs, or for any other reason, we may need to enter into new arrangements with alternative third parties, which could be costly, and our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated or may need to be repeated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize the drug candidate being tested in such trials. If any of our drug candidates receives marketing approval and we or others later identify undesirable side effects caused by the drug candidate, our ability to market and derive revenue from the drugs could be compromised. If we or others identify undesirable side effects caused by one of our drugs, any of the following adverse events could occur: • regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the drug or seize the drug; • we may be required to recall the drug or change the way the drug is administered; • additional restrictions may be imposed on the marketing of the particular drug or the manufacturing processes; • we may be subject to fines, injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties; • regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, such as a “black box” warning or a contraindication; • we may be required to create a Medication Guide outlining the risks of such side effects for distribution to patients; • we could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients; • the drug may become less competitive; and • our reputation may suffer. Any of these could result in the loss of significant revenues, which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations and business. We will need additional financing and may be unable to raise capital on acceptable terms, or at all, when needed, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our research and development programs and other operations or commercialization efforts. We are advancing multiple drug candidates through discovery and development and will require substantial funds to conduct development, including preclinical studies and clinical trials, of our drug candidates. Commercialization of any drug candidate will also require substantial expenditures. While we currently expect GSK to assist us in our development and commercialization efforts with respect to those of our drug candidates for which GSK exercises an option under our agreement, we may also need additional financing to the extent that we are required to hire additional employees to co-promote drug candidates or to commercialize drug candidates that may not be covered by our collaboration agreement. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $96.1 million in cash, cash equivalents and investments. We believe that our available cash, cash equivalents and investments will be sufficient to fund our anticipated level of operations for at least the next 12 months. Our future financing requirements will depend on many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • the rate of progress and cost of our clinical trials, preclinical studies and other discovery and research and development activities; • the timing of, and costs involved in, seeking and obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals; 40 Table of Contents • the continuation and success of our strategic alliance with GSK and future collaboration partners; • the exercise of the remaining option under the GSK agreement; • the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights, including litigation costs and the results of such litigation; • our ability to enter into additional collaboration, licensing, government or other arrangements and the terms and timing of such arrangements; • potential acquisition or in-licensing of other products or technologies; and • the emergence of competing technologies or other adverse market developments. Future capital requirements will also depend on the extent to which we acquire or invest in additional complementary businesses, products and technologies. We currently have no understandings, commitments or agreements relating to any of these types of transactions. Until we can generate a sufficient amount of product revenue to finance our cash requirements, which we may never do, we expect to finance future cash needs primarily through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, government grants and contracts and/or strategic collaborations. Additional financing may not be available to us when we need it or it may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing when needed, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our clinical trials or research and development programs or our commercialization efforts. We may be required to enter into collaborative partnerships for one or more of our drug candidate programs at an earlier stage of development or on less favorable terms, which may require us to relinquish rights to some of our drug candidates that we would otherwise have pursued on our own. We may form additional strategic alliances in the future with respect to our independent programs, and we may not realize the benefits of such alliances. We may form strategic alliances, create joint ventures or collaborations or enter into licensing arrangements with third parties with respect to our independent programs that we believe will complement or augment our existing business. For example, we plan to find a partner for co-development and commercialization of CCX140 and CCX662 outside North America upon completion of clinical development of CCX140 for the treatment of patients with diabetic nephropathy and CCX662 for the treatment of glioblastoma multiforme, or GBM. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate strategic partners and the negotiation process is time-consuming and complex. Moreover, we may not be successful in our efforts to establish a strategic partnership or other alternative arrangements for any future product candidates and programs because our research and development pipeline may be insufficient, our product candidates and programs may be deemed to be at too early of a stage of development for collaborative effort and/or third parties may not view our product candidates and programs as having the requisite potential to demonstrate safety and efficacy. We cannot be certain that, following a strategic transaction or license, we will achieve the revenues or specific net income that justifies such transaction. Any delays in entering into new strategic partnership agreements related to our product candidates could also delay the development and commercialization of our product candidates and reduce their competitiveness even if they reach the market. Key elements of our proprietary suite of drug discovery technologies, known as EnabaLink, including our RAM screening technology, are new approaches to the discovery and development of new drug candidates and may not result in the discovery of any small molecule compounds of commercial value. We must continue to identify and develop compounds that target the chemokine network and expand our portfolio of drug candidates. Research programs to identify new disease targets and drug candidates require substantial technical, financial and human resources. We have limited resources to study the more than 50 known chemokine ligands, as described in a February 2006 article in the New England Journal of Medicine, and 41 Table of Contents approximately 25 identified chemokine receptors. EnabaLink represents a new approach to the development of new drug candidates (see “Item 1. Business — Our Proprietary Drug Discovery Platform, EnabaLink”) and we cannot assure you that EnabaLink will result in the discovery of new drug candidates. EnabaLink has only resulted in a limited number of clinical and preclinical stage programs to date, and we may not identify any therapeutic small molecule compounds of commercial value using EnabaLink or other commercially available drug discovery technologies. If our Reverse Activation of Migration, or RAM, screening technology or any other screening technologies fail to identify highly specific “hits” that lead to the development of new drug candidates, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Our scientists may be unable to optimize the chemical “hits” identified by our RAM screening technology and develop the identified starting material into a candidate for further development that meets the desired product criteria. Our research and development programs may initially show promise in identifying chemokine receptors and their impact on the body’s immune system, yet fail to yield drug candidates that are suitable for preclinical and clinical development. We cannot assure you that our current efforts will be successful or that we will not abandon any of our efforts in the future related to a particular chemokine receptor or small molecule program. We rely on third party contract manufacturing organizations to manufacture and supply our drug candidates for us, other than Traficet-EN and CCX354 for which GSK has manufacturing responsibility. If one of our suppliers or manufacturers fails to perform adequately or fulfill our needs, we may be required to incur significant costs and devote significant efforts to find new suppliers or manufacturers. We may also face delays in the development and commercialization of our drug candidates. Following GSK’s exercise of its options for the further development of Traficet-EN and CCX354, it assumed sole manufacturing responsibility for those drug candidates and each of their two respective back-up compounds and we are no longer involved in their manufacture. We currently have limited experience in, and we do not own facilities for, manufacturing our other drug candidates. We rely upon third party contract manufacturing organizations to manufacture and supply larger quantities of these other drug candidates. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products in compliance with cGMPs requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, including difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control, including stability of the drug candidate and quality assurance testing, shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with strictly enforced FDA current good manufacturing practice, or cGMP, requirements, other federal and state regulatory requirements, and foreign regulations. Raw materials for the synthesis of our API are sourced globally. If the manufacturers of our raw materials and pharmaceutical products were to encounter any difficulties or otherwise fail to comply with their obligations to us or under applicable regulations, our ability to provide study drugs in our preclinical studies and clinical trials would be jeopardized. Any delay or interruption in the supply of preclinical study or clinical trial materials could delay the completion of our preclinical studies and clinical trials, increase the costs associated with maintaining our preclinical study and clinical trial programs and, depending upon the period of delay, require us to commence new trials at significant additional expense or terminate the studies and trials completely. All manufacturers of our drug candidates must comply with cGMP requirements enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. These requirements include, among other things, quality control, quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturers of our component materials may be unable to comply with these cGMP requirements and with other FDA, state and foreign regulatory requirements. The FDA or similar foreign regulatory agencies at any time may also implement new standards, or change their interpretation and enforcement of existing standards for manufacture, packaging or testing of products. We have little control over our manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. A failure to comply with these requirements may result in fines and civil penalties, suspension of production, suspension or delay in product approval, product seizure or recall, or withdrawal of product approval. If the safety of any product supplied is compromised due to our manufacturers’ failure to adhere to applicable laws or for other reasons, we may not be able to obtain regulatory 42 Table of Contents approval for or successfully commercialize our products, and we may be held liable for any injuries sustained as a result. Any of these factors could cause a delay of clinical trials, regulatory submissions, approvals or commercialization of our drug candidates or entail higher costs or impair our reputation. We currently rely on a single source supplier for API for each of our drug candidates, other than Traficet-EN and CCX354 for which the responsibility for supplying the API and drug product has been assumed by GSK. IRIX Pharmaceuticals, Inc., currently manufactures the API for CCX140 and CCX168 for our Phase II clinical trials. Cambridge Major Laboratories has been contracted to manufacture CCX140 API for our Phase III clinical trials. Our current agreements with our suppliers do not provide for the entire supply of the API necessary for additional clinical trials or for full-scale commercialization. We have agreements with the University of Iowa Pharmaceuticals to manufacture the drug product for CCX140 for our Phase II clinical trials and GSK to manufacture the drug product for CCX168. Patheon has been contracted to manufacture CCX140 drug product for our Phase III clinical trials. In the event that we and our suppliers cannot agree to the terms and conditions for them to provide some or all of our API clinical and commercial supply needs, or if any single source supplier terminates the agreement in response to a breach by us, we would not be able to manufacture the API on a commercial scale until a qualified alternative supplier is identified, which could also delay the development of, and impair our ability to commercialize, drug candidates. Although alternative sources of supply exist, the number of third-party suppliers with the necessary manufacturing and regulatory expertise and facilities is limited, and it could be expensive and take a significant amount of time to arrange for alternative suppliers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. New suppliers of any API would be required to qualify under applicable regulatory requirements and would need to have sufficient rights under applicable intellectual property laws to the method of manufacturing such ingredients. Obtaining the necessary FDA approvals or other qualifications under applicable regulatory requirements and ensuring non-infringement of third-party intellectual property rights could result in a significant interruption of supply and could require the new manufacturer to bear significant additional costs which may be passed on to us. We currently have no sales and marketing staff or distribution organization. If we are unable to develop a sales and marketing and distribution capability on our own or through collaborations with GSK or other marketing partners, we will not be successful in commercializing our future products. We currently have no sales, marketing or distribution capabilities or experience. If our products are approved for sale, we intend to rely on GSK to assist us in the marketing and distribution of our products for which GSK has exercised an option under our agreement, but there can be no assurance it will elect to market and distribute our products or that it will not terminate our collaboration arrangement. If GSK does not exercise its remaining option, we may need to enter into distribution or co-marketing arrangements with other third parties. To the extent we rely on third parties for marketing and distributing our approved products, any revenue we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties, which may not be successful and are only partially within our control and our product revenue is likely to be lower than if we directly marketed or sold our products. GSK or other future collaborators may fail to develop or effectively commercialize our drug candidates because they cannot obtain necessary regulatory approvals, development or commercialization is not commercially reasonable, they elect to pursue competitive products outside of the collaboration; or for other reasons. If we are unable to enter into arrangements with third parties to commercialize the approved products on acceptable terms or at all, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our future products or we will have to market these products ourselves, which will be expensive and require us to build our own sales force, which we do not have experience doing. For example, we plan to retain commercial rights to CCX140 in North America and intend to build a small specialty sales force calling on nephrologists in North America. In addition, under our collaboration agreement with GSK, we have co-promotion rights with respect to certain drugs, but we do not have experience managing a sales force, selling drugs or marketing drugs. We cannot assure you we will be successful in any of these initiatives. If we are not successful in commercializing our future products, either on our own or through collaborations with GSK or one or more third parties, or co-promoting drugs with GSK, any future product revenue will be materially adversely affected. 43 Table of Contents We will need to increase the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing growth. As of December 31, 2011, we had 64 full-time employees. We will need to continue to expand our managerial, operational, financial and other resources in order to manage our operations and clinical trials, continue our development activities and commercialize our drug candidates. Our management and personnel, systems and facilities currently in place may not be adequate to support this future growth. Our need to effectively execute our growth strategy requires that we: • manage our clinical trials effectively, including our Phase II clinical trials for CCX140 and CCX168, which are being conducted at numerous trial sites throughout the world; • manage our internal development efforts effectively while carrying out our contractual obligations to licensors, contractors, collaborators, government agencies and other third parties; • continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures; and • identify, recruit, maintain, motivate and integrate additional employees. We face substantial competition and our competitors may discover, develop or commercialize products faster or more successfully than us. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive, and we face significant competition from companies in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other related markets that are researching and marketing products designed to address IBD, chronic kidney disease, including diabetic nephropathy, rheumatoid arthritis, other autoimmune diseases and inflammatory disorders, and cancer. Established pharmaceutical companies that currently sell or are developing drugs in our markets of interest include, for example, Abbott, Amgen, AstraZeneca, Biogen Idec, Bayer, Elan, GSK, Johnson & Johnson, Merck, Merck Serono, Takeda, Novartis, Pfizer, Reata, Sanofi and Teva. Many or all of these established competitors are also involved in research and drug development regarding various chemokine receptors. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies which are known to be involved in chemokine research and related drug development include Pfizer, GSK, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Merck, Takeda, Sanofi, Incyte, and UCB Pharma among others. We are developing small molecule therapeutics that will compete with other drugs and alternative therapies that are currently marketed or are being developed to treat IBD, chronic kidney disease and diabetic nephropathy, rheumatoid arthritis, other autoimmune diseases and inflammatory disorders, and cancer. If approved for marketing by the FDA, Traficet-EN, our lead IBD drug candidate, would compete against existing IBD treatments such as Remicade, Humira, and other TNF-a inhibitors, immunomodulatory drugs and corticosteroids and potentially against other novel IBD drug candidates that are currently in development. Similarly, other future drug candidates we are pursuing would compete against numerous existing and established drugs and potentially against other novel drugs and therapies that are currently in development. See “Item 1. Business — Competition.”] We also anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as new companies enter into our target markets and scientific developments surrounding the chemokine system continue to develop. Many of our competitors have materially greater name recognition and financial, manufacturing, marketing, research and drug development resources than we do. Additional mergers and acquisitions in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries may result in even more resources being concentrated in our competitors. Large pharmaceutical companies in particular have extensive expertise in preclinical and clinical testing and in obtaining regulatory approvals for drugs. In addition, academic institutions, government agencies, and other public and private organizations conducting research may seek patent protection with respect to potentially competitive products or technologies. These organizations may also establish exclusive collaborative or licensing relationships with our competitors. 44 Table of Contents We may be subject to costly product liability claims related to our clinical trials and drug candidates and, if we are unable to obtain adequate insurance or are required to pay for liabilities resulting from a claim excluded from, or beyond the limits of, our insurance coverage, a material liability claim could adversely affect our financial condition. Because we conduct clinical trials with human patients, we face the risk that the use of our drug candidates may result in adverse side effects to patients and to otherwise healthy volunteers in our clinical trials. We face even greater risks upon any commercialization of our drug candidates. Although we have product liability insurance for clinical trials for up to $10.0 million, our insurance may be insufficient to reimburse us for any expenses or losses we may suffer, and we will be required to increase our product liability insurance coverage for our advanced clinical trials that we plan to initiate. We do not know whether we will be able to continue to obtain product liability coverage and obtain expanded coverage on acceptable terms, or at all. We may not have sufficient resources to pay for any liabilities resulting from a claim excluded from, or beyond the limits of, our insurance coverage. There is also a risk that third parties that we have agreed to indemnify could incur liability. An individual may bring a product liability claim against us if one of our drug candidates or products causes, or is claimed to have caused, an injury or is found to be unsuitable for consumer use. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in: • withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers, investigators, patients or trial sites; • the inability to commercialize our drug candidates; • decreased demand for our drug candidates; • regulatory investigations that could require costly recalls or product modifications; • loss of revenues; • substantial costs of litigation; • liabilities that substantially exceed our product liability insurance, which we would then be required to pay ourselves; • an increase in our product liability insurance rates or the inability to maintain insurance coverage in the future on acceptable terms, if at all; • the diversion of management’s attention from our business; and • damage to our reputation and the reputation of our products. Our business involves the use of hazardous materials and we and our third-party manufacturers must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which may be expensive and restrict how we do business. Our third-party manufacturers’ activities and our own activities involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials, including the components of our pharmaceutical products, test samples and reagents, biological materials and other hazardous compounds. We and our manufacturers are subject to federal, state and local and foreign laws and regulations governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials. We currently carry no insurance specifically covering environmental claims relating to the use of hazardous materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials and waste products comply with the standards prescribed by these laws and regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from the use, storage, handling or disposal of hazardous materials. In the event of an accident, state or federal or other applicable authorities may curtail our use of these materials and/or interrupt our business operations. In addition, if an accident or environmental discharge occurs, or if we discover contamination caused by prior operations, including by prior owners and operators of properties we acquire, we could be liable for cleanup obligations, damages and fines. The substantial unexpected costs we may incur could significantly harm our financial condition and results of operations. 45 Table of Contents Future financings may adversely affect our stockholders or impose restrictions on our assets or operations, which may harm our business. If we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities or convertible debt securities, then our existing stockholders’ ownership will be diluted and the terms of any new equity securities may have preferences over our common stock. If we raise additional capital through the issuance of debt securities, the debt will have rights senior to the holders of our common stock and may contain covenants that restrict our operational flexibility or impose liens or other restrictions on our assets. In addition, the terms of future financings may restrict our ability to raise additional capital, which would delay or prevent the further development or commercialization of our drug candidates. If we raise additional funds through collaboration, licensing or other similar arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our current drug candidates, potential products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If adequate funds are not available, our ability to achieve profitability or to respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited and we may be required to delay, significantly curtail or eliminate the development of one or more of our drug candidates. We are highly dependent on the services of our founder, President and Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Thomas J. Schall, and if we are not able to retain Dr. Schall or other members of our management or recruit additional management, clinical and scientific personnel, our business will suffer. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified management and scientific and clinical personnel in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and other businesses, particularly in the San Francisco Bay area. Our industry has experienced a high rate of turnover of management personnel in recent years. If we are not able to attract, retain and motivate necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will significantly impede the achievement of our development objectives, our ability to raise additional capital and our ability to implement our business strategy. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff. The loss of service of any of our management could harm our business. In addition, we are dependent on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified additional management, clinical and scientific personnel. The competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical industry is intense. Due to our limited resources, we may not be able to effectively attract and recruit additional qualified personnel. If we are not able to retain our management, particularly our founder, President and Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Schall, and attract, on acceptable terms, additional qualified personnel necessary for the continued development of our business, we may not be able to sustain our operations or grow. Although we have executed employment agreements with each member of our current executive management team, including Dr. Schall, these agreements are terminable at will with or without notice and, therefore, we may not be able to retain their services as expected. In addition to the competition for personnel, the San Francisco Bay area in particular is characterized by a high cost of living. As such, we could have difficulty attracting experienced personnel to our company and may be required to expend significant financial resources in our employee recruitment and retention efforts. In addition, we have scientific and clinical advisors who assist us in formulating our product development and clinical strategies. These advisors are not our employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us, or may have arrangements with other companies to assist in the development of products that may compete with ours. Requirements associated with being a public company increase our costs significantly, as well as divert significant company resources and management attention. Prior to our initial public offering in February 2012, we were not subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, or the other rules and regulations of the SEC or any securities exchange relating to public companies. We are working with our legal, independent accounting 46 Table of Contents and financial advisors to identify those areas in which changes should be made to our financial and management control systems to manage our growth and our obligations as a public company. These areas include corporate governance, corporate control, internal audit, disclosure controls and procedures and financial reporting and accounting systems. We have made, and will continue to make, changes in these and other areas. However, the expenses that will be required in order to continue as a public company could be material. Compliance with the various reporting and other requirements applicable to public companies also require considerable time and attention of management. In addition, the changes we make may not be sufficient to allow us to satisfy our obligations as a public company on a timely basis. In addition, being a public company could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may be subject to sanctions by regulatory authorities. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and beginning with our annual report for fiscal 2012 provide a management report on the internal control over financial reporting. If we have a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting, we may not detect errors on a timely basis and our consolidated financial statements may be materially misstated. We will be evaluating our internal controls systems to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, our internal controls. We will be performing the system and process evaluation and testing (and any necessary remediation) required to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, or The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, or NASDAQ. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results or investors’ confidence in us and could cause our stock price to fall. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal controls that are deemed to be material weaknesses, we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by NASDAQ, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would entail expenditure of additional financial and management resources and could materially adversely affect our stock price. We may be adversely affected by the current economic environment. Our ability to attract and retain collaboration partners or customers, invest in and grow our business and meet our financial obligations depends on our operating and financial performance, which, in turn, is subject to numerous factors, including the prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors beyond our control, such as the rate of unemployment, the number of uninsured persons in the United States and inflationary pressures. We cannot anticipate all the ways in which the current economic climate and financial market conditions could adversely impact our business. We are exposed to risks associated with reduced profitability and the potential financial instability of our collaboration partners or customers, many of which may be adversely affected by volatile conditions in the financial markets. For example, unemployment and underemployment, and the resultant loss of insurance, may decrease the demand for healthcare services and pharmaceuticals. If fewer patients are seeking medical care because they do not have insurance coverage, our collaboration partners or customers may experience reductions in revenues, profitability and/or cash flow that could lead them to reduce their support of our programs or 47 Table of Contents financing activities. If collaboration partners or customers are not successful in generating sufficient revenue or are precluded from securing financing, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable that are owed to us. This, in turn, could adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity. In addition, if economic challenges in the United States result in widespread and prolonged unemployment, either regionally or on a national basis, prior to the effectiveness of certain provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, collectively known as the Affordable Care Act, a substantial number of people may become uninsured or underinsured. To the extent economic challenges result in fewer individuals pursuing or being able to afford our products once commercialized, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. Our internal computer systems, or those of our CROs or other contractors or consultants, may fail or suffer security breaches, which could result in a material disruption of our drug development programs. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems and those of our CROs and other contractors and consultants are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. While we have not experienced any such system failure, accident or security breach to date, if such an event were to occur and cause interruptions in our operations, it could result in a material disruption of our drug development programs. For example, the loss of clinical trial data from completed or ongoing clinical trials for any of our drug candidates could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. To the extent that any disruption or security breach were to result in a loss of or damage to our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur liability and the further development of our drug candidates could be delayed. Our employees may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including noncompliance with regulatory standards and requirements. We are exposed to the risk of employee fraud or other misconduct. Misconduct by employees could include intentional failures to comply with FDA regulations, provide accurate information to the FDA, comply with manufacturing standards we have established, comply with federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations, report financial information or data accurately or disclose unauthorized activities to us. In particular, sales, marketing and business arrangements in the healthcare industry are subject to extensive laws and regulations intended to prevent fraud, kickbacks, self-dealing and other abusive practices. These laws and regulations may restrict or prohibit a wide range of pricing, discounting, marketing and promotion, sales commission, customer incentive programs and other business arrangements. Employee misconduct could also involve the improper use of information obtained in the course of clinical trials, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious harm to our reputation. It is not always possible to identify and deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws or regulations. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, if a corporation undergoes an “ownership change” (generally defined as a greater than 50% change, by value, in its equity ownership over a three year period), the corporation’s ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes to offset its post-change taxable income and taxes may be limited. We previously determined that we had ownership changes that occurred in July 1999 and June 2004, which limit our ability to use our then existing tax attributes. Following our initial public offering, we determined that a change in ownership had not occurred. 48 Table of Contents However, future changes in our stock ownership, many of the causes of which are outside our control, could result in an ownership change. Any such ownership changes could further limit our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes. Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenues and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our operations could be subject to earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics and other natural or manmade disasters or business interruptions. The occurrence of any of these business disruptions could seriously harm our operations and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our corporate headquarters is located in California and certain clinical sites for our drug candidates, operations of our existing and future partners and suppliers are or will be located in California near major earthquake faults and fire zones. The ultimate impact on us, our significant partners, suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults and fire zones and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown, but our operations and financial condition could suffer in the event of a major earthquake, fire or other natural or manmade disaster. Risks Related to Intellectual Property We may have to license rights from Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc. or engage in patent litigation in order to secure the rights necessary to commercialize Traficet-EN. Patent litigation could absorb significant management time and financial resources, and, if we do not prevail, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to derive revenues from our agreement with GSK. Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Millennium, has obtained certain U.S. patents which include claims to small molecules that modulate CCR9, compositions thereof, and methods of using them to treat conditions such as IBD. We became aware of Millennium’s CCR9-related patent applications during our own routine patent and patent literature review. Millennium, which was acquired by Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited, or Takeda, in May 2008 and is currently a wholly owned subsidiary of Takeda, may contend that the claims of these patents cover our patented Traficet-EN drug candidate. We believe that our activities related to Traficet-EN are currently exempt from patent infringement liability because these activities are strictly limited to obtaining information for regulatory approval. However, if and when our Traficet-EN related activities extend beyond those related to seeking regulatory approval, such as, for example, if and when we commercialize Traficet-EN, Millennium might then commence an infringement action against us based on these patents and/or other related patents that it may be granted in the future. If Millennium elects to sue us, we believe that we may have viable defenses to any such infringement suit. However, we cannot assure you that the relevant court would find in our favor with respect to such defenses. Intellectual property litigation and patent litigation in particular, is expensive, complex and lengthy and its outcome is difficult to predict. A court could enter orders that temporarily, preliminarily or permanently enjoin us or our strategic partners from using, selling, offering to sell or importing out current or future drug candidates or could enter an order mandating that we undertake certain remedial activities. During 2005, we did engage in preliminary discussions with Millennium regarding potentially collaborating with respect to CCR9, given that both we and Millennium have patents relating to CCR9. However, these discussions were general in nature and did not progress beyond the preliminary stage. Other than these preliminary discussions, we have not had any conversations or contacts with Millennium relating to CCR9. Under our agreement with GSK, GSK has the right, but not the obligation, to defend against third party patent infringement claims for licensed drugs. If GSK elects to defend against any such claims, it has the sole right to direct the defense of such claims and settle such claims at its own cost and expense. If GSK elects not to defend against such claims, we have the right, but not the obligation, to defend against such claims. We may also be subject to negative publicity due to litigation. Pending or future patent litigation against us or any strategic partners by Millennium or anyone else may force us or any strategic partners to stop or delay developing, manufacturing or selling potential drug candidates that are claimed to infringe a third party’s intellectual property, unless that party grants us or any strategic partners rights to use its intellectual property. If 49 Table of Contents Millennium is able to obtain an injunction and neither we nor our strategic partners are able to obtain a license, both we and our strategic partners would be precluded from the manufacture and sale of Traficet-EN. U.S. patents are entitled to a presumption of validity and the burden of proving invalidity would be heavily weighted against us. Specifically, we would be required to show by clear and convincing evidence that Millennium’s patents are invalid. Such decisions on patent validity often favor the patent owner because of the presumption of validity. If we or our strategic partners are unable to show that Millennium’s patent is invalid and neither we nor our strategic partners are able to obtain a license from Millennium for the use of their intellectual property at all or on commercially acceptable terms, this would preclude both us and our strategic partners from the manufacture and sale of Traficet-EN or related candidate compounds found to be covered by Millennium’s patent claims. If we are able to obtain a license from Millennium, we will be solely responsible for all fees required to be paid to Millennium in connection with such license and GSK will bear no responsibility for such license fees. See “Item 1. Business — Intellectual Property.” The cost to us of any patent litigation or other proceedings, such as interference proceedings, which are meant to determine who first invented any of the claims covered by the patent even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. Discovery proceedings in the United States might lead to the disclosure of some of our proprietary confidential information. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management and technical staff’s time which may materially and adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. Our proprietary rights may not adequately protect our technologies and drug candidates. If we are unable to protect our drug candidates and our intellectual property rights, it may materially adversely affect our position in the market. Our commercial success will depend on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection for our technologies, intellectual property and drug candidates in the United States and other countries. Our patent estate, on a worldwide basis, includes approximately 390 issued or allowed patents and approximately 325 pending patent applications, with claims relating to all of our current clinical stage drug candidates. With respect to our lead drug candidates in the CCR1, CCR2 and CCR9 programs, we have approximately 100 issued or allowed patents worldwide relating to their chemical composition or use thereof. There are approximately 40 patent applications pending for our other clinical stage compounds in the C5aR and ChemR23 programs. We have approximately 180 issued patents relating to other small molecule compounds and approximately 60 issued patents relating to our novel biological discoveries. We also have approximately 50 issued patents relating to our proprietary screening and drug development technologies. We cannot assure you that any of our patent applications will result in issued patents. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies and future products are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. If third parties disclose or misappropriate our proprietary rights, it may materially and adversely impact our position in the market. We apply for patents covering both our technologies and drug candidates, as we deem appropriate. However, we may fail to apply for patents on important technologies or drug candidates in a timely fashion, or at all. Our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from using our technologies or from developing competing products and technologies. Moreover, the patent positions of numerous biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. As a result, the validity and enforceability of our patents cannot be predicted with certainty. In addition, we cannot assure you that: • we were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our issued patents and pending patent applications; • we were the first to file patent applications for these inventions; 50 Table of Contents • others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies by inventing around our claims; • any of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents; • a third party will not challenge our proprietary rights or that a court will hold that our patents are valid and enforceable; • any patents issued to us or our collaboration partners will provide us with any competitive advantages, or will not be challenged by third parties; • we will develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; or • the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, there are numerous recent changes to the patent laws and proposed changes to the rules of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, which may have a significant impact on our ability to protect our technology and enforce our intellectual property rights. For example, on September 16, 2011, President Obama signed the America Invents Act which codifies several significant changes to the U.S. patent laws, including, among other things, changing from a “first to invent” to a “first inventor to file” system, limiting where a patentee may file a patent suit, requiring the apportionment of patent damages, replacing interference proceedings with derivation actions, and creating a post-grant opposition process to challenge patents after they have issued. The effects of these changes are currently unclear as the USPTO must still implement various regulations, the courts have yet to address any of these provisions, and the applicability of the act and new regulations on specific patents discussed herein have not been determined and would need to be reviewed. We rely upon unpatented trade secrets, unpatented know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees and our collaborators and consultants. We also have agreements with our employees and selected consultants that obligate them to assign their inventions to us. However, it is possible that technology relevant to our business will be independently developed by a person that is not a party to such an agreement. Furthermore, if the employees and consultants that are parties to these agreements breach or violate the terms of these agreements, we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach or violation, and we could lose our trade secrets through such breaches or violations. Further, our trade secrets could otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors. In addition, intellectual property laws in foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as the laws of the United States. We may become subject to third parties’ claims alleging infringement of patents and proprietary rights or seeking to invalidate our patents or proprietary rights, which would be costly, time consuming and, if successfully asserted against us, delay or prevent the development and commercialization of our products. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. We may be subject to third-party claims in the future against us or our collaborators that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful against us, could cause us to pay substantial damages, including treble damages and attorney’s fees if we are found to be willfully infringing a third party’s patents. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us or our collaborators, we or they could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of the product or drug candidate that is the subject of the suit. As a result of patent infringement claims, or in order to avoid potential claims, we or our collaborators may choose to seek, or be required to seek, a license from the third party and would most likely be required to pay license fees or royalties or both. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we or our collaborators were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which would give our competitors access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product, or forced to redesign it, or to cease some aspect of our business operations if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, we or our collaborators are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. This could harm our business significantly. 51 Table of Contents In addition to infringement claims against us, if third parties prepare and file patent applications in the United States that also claim technology to which we have rights, we may have to participate in interference proceedings in the USPTO to determine the priority of invention. We may also become involved in similar opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office regarding our intellectual property rights with respect to our products and technology. Restrictions on our patent rights relating to our drug candidates may limit our ability to prevent third parties from competing against us. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our drug candidates, preserve our trade secrets, prevent third parties from infringing upon our proprietary rights and operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. Composition-of-matter patents on APIs are generally considered to be the strongest form of intellectual property protection for pharmaceutical products as they apply without regard to any method of use. Entirely new individual chemical compounds, often referred to as new chemical entities, are typically entitled to composition-of-matter coverage. However, we cannot be certain that the current law will remain the same, or that our drug candidates will be considered novel and non-obvious by the USPTO and courts. In addition to composition-of-matter patents and patent applications, we also have filed method-of-use patent applications. This type of patent protects the use of the product only for the specified method. However, this type of patent does not prevent a competitor from making and marketing a product that is identical to our product for an indication that is outside the scope of the patented method. Moreover, even if these competitors do not actively promote their product for our targeted indication, physicians may prescribe these products “off-label.” Although off-label prescriptions may infringe or contribute to the infringement of method-of-use patents, the practice is common and such infringement is difficult to prevent or prosecute. Patent applications in the United States and most other countries are confidential for a period of time until they are published, and publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature typically lags actual discoveries by several months or more. As a result, we cannot be certain that we and the inventors of the issued patents and applications that we may in-license were the first to conceive of the inventions covered by such patents and pending patent applications or that we and those inventors were the first to file patent applications covering such inventions. Also, we have numerous issued patents and some patent applications pending before the USPTO and the patent protection may lapse before we manage to obtain commercial value from them, which might result in increased competition and materially affect our position in the market. We may be subject to claims that we or our employees or consultants have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of our employees’ or consultants’ former employers or their clients. These claims may be costly to defend and if we do not successfully do so, we may be required to pay monetary damages and may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. Many of our employees were previously employed at universities or biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research personnel or their work product could hamper our ability to commercialize, or prevent us from commercializing our drug candidates, which could severely harm our business. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. 52 Table of Contents Some of our intellectual property which is discovered through government funded programs is subject to federal regulation such as “march-in” rights, certain reporting requirements, and a preference for U.S. industry. Compliance with such regulations may limit our exclusive rights, subject us to expenditure of resources with respect to reporting requirements, and limit our ability to contract with foreign manufacturers. Some of our existing drug candidates, including CCX140, and some of our research and development work were funded, at least in part, by the U.S. government and are therefore subject to certain federal regulations. For example, some of our research and development work on vaccine adjuvants and immunomodulation for biothreat applications was funded by government research grants. In addition, as noted on several of our patents including U.S. Patent Nos. 7,884,110; 7,622,583; 7,776,877; and 7,683,176, inventions covering various CCR9 and CCR2 antagonists were supported at least in part by NIH funding (U19-AI056690-01). Under the “march-in” provisions of the Bayh-Dole Act, the government may have the right under limited circumstances to require us to grant exclusive, partially exclusive or non-exclusive rights to third parties for intellectual property discovered through the government funded program. The government can exercise its march-in rights if it determines that action is necessary because we fail to achieve practical application of the new invention or because action is necessary to alleviate health or safety needs of the public. Intellectual property discovered under the government funded program is also subject to certain reporting requirements, compliance with which may require us to expend substantial resources. Such intellectual property is also subject to a preference for U.S. industry, which may limit our ability to contract with foreign product manufacturers for products covered by such intellectual property. We plan to apply for additional U.S. government funding, and it is possible that we may discover compounds or drug candidates as a result of such funding. Intellectual property under such discoveries would be subject to the applicable provisions of the Bayh-Dole Act. Risks Related to Government Regulation The regulatory approval process is expensive, time consuming and uncertain and may prevent us or our collaboration partners from obtaining approvals for the commercialization of some or all of our drug candidates. The research, testing, manufacturing, labeling, approval, selling, import, export, marketing and distribution of drug products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory authorities in the United States and other countries, which regulations differ from country to country. Neither we nor our collaboration partners are permitted to market our drug candidates in the United States until we receive approval of an NDA from the FDA. Neither we nor our collaboration partners have submitted an application for or received marketing approval for any of our drug candidates. Obtaining approval of an NDA can be a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process. In addition, failure to comply with FDA and other applicable U.S. and foreign regulatory requirements may subject us to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including: • warning letters; • civil and criminal penalties; • injunctions; • withdrawal of approved products; • product seizure or detention; • product recalls; • total or partial suspension of production; and • refusal to approve pending NDAs or supplements to approved NDAs. Prior to receiving approval to commercialize any of our drug candidates in the United States or abroad, we and our collaboration partners must demonstrate with substantial evidence from well controlled clinical trials, and to the satisfaction of the FDA and other regulatory authorities abroad, that such drug candidates are safe and effective for their intended uses. Results from preclinical studies and clinical trials can be interpreted in different 53 Table of Contents ways. Even if we and our collaboration partners believe the preclinical or clinical data for our drug candidates are promising, such data may not be sufficient to support approval by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Administering any of our drug candidates to humans may produce undesirable side effects, which could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials of our drug candidates and result in the FDA or other regulatory authorities denying approval of our drug candidates for any or all targeted indications. Regulatory approval of an NDA or NDA supplement is not guaranteed, and the approval process is expensive and may take several years. The FDA also has substantial discretion in the approval process. Despite the time and expense exerted, failure can occur at any stage, and we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon or repeat clinical trials, or perform additional preclinical studies and clinical trials. The number of preclinical studies and clinical trials that will be required for FDA approval varies depending on the drug candidate, the disease or condition that the drug candidate is designed to address, and the regulations applicable to any particular drug candidate. The FDA can delay, limit or deny approval of a drug candidate for many reasons, including, but not limited to, the following: • a drug candidate may not be deemed safe or effective; • FDA officials may not find the data from preclinical studies and clinical trials sufficient; • the FDA might not approve our or our third party manufacturer’s processes or facilities; or • the FDA may change its approval policies or adopt new regulations. If any of our drug candidates fails to demonstrate safety and efficacy in clinical trials or does not gain regulatory approval, our business and results of operations will be materially and adversely harmed. Even if we receive regulatory approval for a drug candidate, we will be subject to ongoing regulatory obligations and continued regulatory review, which may result in significant additional expense and subject us to penalties if we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements. Once regulatory approval has been granted, the approved product and its manufacturer are subject to continual review by the FDA and/or non-U.S. regulatory authorities. Any regulatory approval that we or our collaboration partners receive for our drug candidates may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing follow-up studies to monitor the safety and efficacy of the product. In addition, if the FDA and/or non-U.S. regulatory authorities approve any of our drug candidates, we will be subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements by the FDA and other regulatory authorities with regard to the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and recordkeeping for our products. In addition, manufacturers of our drug products are required to comply with current cGMP regulations, which include requirements related to quality control and quality assurance as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. Further, regulatory authorities must approve these manufacturing facilities before they can be used to manufacture our drug products, and these facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities for compliance with cGMP regulations. If we or a regulatory authority discovers previously unknown problems with a product, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, a regulatory authority may impose restrictions on that product, the manufacturer or us, including requiring withdrawal of the product from the market or suspension of manufacturing. If we, our drug candidates or the manufacturing facilities for our drug candidates fail to comply with regulatory requirements of the FDA and/or other non-U.S. regulatory authorities, we could be subject to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including: • warning letters; • civil or criminal penalties; • injunctions; • suspension of or withdrawal of regulatory approval; 54 Table of Contents • suspension of any ongoing clinical trials; • voluntary or mandatory product recalls and publicity requirements; • refusal to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new drugs or supplements to approved applications filed by us; • restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; or • seizure or detention of our products or import bans. The regulatory requirements and policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted for which we may also be required to comply. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or in other countries. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we will not be permitted to market our future products and our business will suffer. The availability of adequate third-party coverage and reimbursement for newly approved drugs is uncertain, and failure to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors could impede our ability to market any future products we may develop and could limit our ability to generate revenue. There is significant uncertainty related to the third-party payor coverage and reimbursement of newly approved drugs. The commercial success of our future products in both domestic and international markets depends on whether such third-party coverage and reimbursement is available for our future products. Governmental payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, health maintenance organizations and other third-party payors are increasingly attempting to manage their healthcare expenditures by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement of new drugs and, as a result, they may not cover or provide adequate reimbursement for our future products. These payors may not view our future products as cost-effective, and coverage and reimbursement may not be available to our customers or may not be sufficient to allow our future products to be marketed on a competitive basis. Third-party payors are exerting increasing influence on decisions regarding the use of, and coverage and reimbursement levels for, particular treatments. Such third-party payors, including Medicare, are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services, and many third-party payors limit or delay coverage and reimbursement for newly approved healthcare products. In particular, third-party payors may limit the covered indications. Cost-control initiatives could cause us to decrease the price we might establish for products, which could result in lower than anticipated product revenues. If the prices for our drug candidates decrease or if governmental and other third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage or reimbursement, our prospects for revenue and profitability will suffer. Failure to obtain regulatory approvals in foreign jurisdictions will prevent us from marketing our products internationally. We intend to seek a distribution and marketing partner for CCX140 outside North America and may market future products in international markets. In order to market our future products in the EEA (which is comprised of the 27 Member States of the EU plus Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein) and many other foreign jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals. More concretely, in the EEA, medicinal products can only be commercialized after obtaining a Marketing Authorization, or MA. There are two types of marketing authorizations: • The Community MA, which is issued by the European Commission through the Centralized Procedure, based on the opinion of the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use of the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, and which is valid throughout the entire territory of the EEA. The Centralized Procedure is mandatory for certain types of products, such as biotechnology medicinal products, orphan medicinal products, and medicinal products indicated for the treatment of AIDS, cancer, neurodegenerative disorders, diabetes, auto-immune and viral diseases. The Centralized Procedure is optional for products containing a new active substance not yet authorized in the EEA, or for products that constitute a significant therapeutic, scientific or technical innovation or which are in the interest of public health in the EU. 55 Table of Contents • National MAs, which are issued by the competent authorities of the Member States of the EEA and only cover their respective territory, are available for products not falling within the mandatory scope of the Centralized Procedure. Where a product has already been authorized for marketing in a Member State of the EEA, this National MA can be recognized in another Member State through the Mutual Recognition Procedure. If the product has not received a National MA in any Member State at the time of application, it can be approved simultaneously in various Member States through the Decentralized Procedure. Under the above described procedures, before granting the MA, the EMA or the competent authorities of the Member States of the EEA make an assessment of the risk-benefit balance of the product on the basis of scientific criteria concerning its quality, safety and efficacy. We have had limited interactions with foreign regulatory authorities, and the approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional clinical testing, and the time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. Clinical trials conducted in one country may not be accepted by regulatory authorities in other countries. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one or more foreign regulatory authorities does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or by the FDA. However, a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory process in others. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and even if we file we may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market. Healthcare reform measures could hinder or prevent our drug candidates’ commercial success. In the United States, there have been and we expect there will continue to be a number of legislative and regulatory changes to the healthcare system in ways that could affect our future revenues and profitability and the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers. Federal and state lawmakers regularly propose and, at times, enact legislation that would result in significant changes to the healthcare system, some of which are intended to contain or reduce the costs of medical products and services. For example, in March 2010, the President signed one of the most significant healthcare reform measures in decades, the Affordable Care Act. It contains a number of provisions, including those governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs, reimbursement changes and fraud and abuse measures, all of which will impact existing government healthcare programs and will result in the development of new programs. The Affordable Care Act, among other things: • imposes a non-deductible annual fee on pharmaceutical manufacturers or importers who sell “branded prescription drugs,” effective 2011; • increases the minimum level of Medicaid rebates payable by manufacturers of brand-name drugs from 15.1% to 23.1%; • requires collection of rebates for drugs paid by Medicaid managed care organizations; • requires manufacturers to participate in a coverage gap discount program, under which they must agree to offer 50% point-of-sale discounts off negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for the manufacturer’s outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D, beginning January 2011; and • mandates a further shift in the burden of Medicaid payments to the states. A number of states have challenged the constitutionality of certain provisions of the Affordable Care Act, and many of these challenges are still pending final adjudication in several jurisdictions as well as the United States Supreme Court. Congress has also proposed a number of legislative initiatives, including possible repeal of the Affordable Care Act. At this time, it remains unclear whether there will be any changes made to the Affordable Care Act, whether to certain provisions or its entirety. We cannot assure you that the Affordable Care 56 Table of Contents Act, as currently enacted or as amended in the future, will not adversely affect our business and financial results and we cannot predict how future federal or state legislative or administrative changes relating to healthcare reform will affect our business. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the Affordable Care Act was enacted. On August 2, 2011, the President signed into law the Budget Control Act of 2011, which, among other things, creates the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to recommend proposals in spending reductions to Congress. The Joint Select Committee did not achieve a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, triggering the legislation’s automatic reduction to several government programs. This includes aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, starting in 2013. On September 19, 2011, the President presented his Plan for Economic Growth and Deficit Reduction to the Joint Select Committee, which includes $248 billion in Medicare savings ($240 billion of which comes from reducing and collecting Medicare payments incorrectly paid) and $72 billion in Medicaid savings. Beginning in 2017, the President’s proposal also shifts more of the Medicare costs to newly enrolled beneficiaries, including an increase in patient deductibles under Medicare Part B for certain beneficiaries, and increases Part B and Part D premiums for higher-income beneficiaries. There likely will continue to be legislative and regulatory proposals at the federal and state levels directed at containing or lowering the cost of health care. We cannot predict the initiatives that may be adopted in the future or their full impact. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of healthcare services to contain or reduce costs of health care may adversely affect: • our ability to set a price we believe is fair for our products; • our ability to generate revenues and achieve or maintain profitability; and • the availability of capital. Further, changes in regulatory requirements and guidance may occur and we may need to amend clinical trial protocols to reflect these changes. Amendments may require us to resubmit our clinical trial protocols to IRBs for reexamination, which may impact the costs, timing or successful completion of a clinical trial. In light of widely publicized events concerning the safety risk of certain drug products, regulatory authorities, members of Congress, the Governmental Accounting Office, medical professionals and the general public have raised concerns about potential drug safety issues. These events have resulted in the withdrawal of drug products, revisions to drug labeling that further limit use of the drug products and establishment of risk management programs that may, for instance, restrict distribution of drug products. The increased attention to drug safety issues may result in a more cautious approach by the FDA to clinical trials and the drug approval process. Data from clinical trials may receive greater scrutiny with respect to safety, which may make the FDA or other regulatory authorities more likely to terminate clinical trials before completion, or require longer or additional clinical trials that may result in substantial additional expense and a delay or failure in obtaining approval or approval for a more limited indication than originally sought. Heightened Congressional scrutiny on the adequacy of the FDA’s drug approval process and the agency’s efforts to assure the safety of marketed drugs resulted in the enactment of legislation addressing drug safety issues, the FDA Amendments Act of 2007. This legislation provided the FDA with expanded authority over drug products after approval, and the FDA’s exercise of this authority has resulted in delays or increased costs during the period of product development, clinical trials and regulatory review and approval, and increased costs to assure compliance with new post-approval regulatory requirements. Given the serious public health risks of high profile adverse safety events with certain drug products, the FDA may require, as a condition of approval, costly risk management programs which may include safety surveillance, restricted distribution and use, patient education, enhanced labeling, special packaging or labeling, expedited reporting of certain adverse events, preapproval of promotional materials and restrictions on direct-to-consumer advertising. 57 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with healthcare regulations, we could face substantial penalties and our business, operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Even though we do not and will not control referrals of healthcare services or bill directly to Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payors, certain federal and state healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to fraud and abuse and patients’ rights are and will be applicable to our business. We could be subject to healthcare fraud and abuse and patient privacy regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. The regulations that may affect our ability to operate include, without limitation: • the federal healthcare program Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, any person from knowingly and willfully offering, soliciting, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce either the referral of an individual, for an item or service or the purchasing or ordering of a good or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; • the federal False Claims Act, which prohibits, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, false claims, or knowingly using false statements, to obtain payment from the federal government, and which may apply to entities like us which provide coding and billing advice to customers; • federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters; • the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, which governs the conduct of certain electronic healthcare transactions and protects the security and privacy of protected health information; and • state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers. The recently enacted Affordable Care Act, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute and criminal healthcare fraud statutes. A person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. In addition, the Affordable Care Act provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the False Claims Act. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. Moreover, achieving and sustaining compliance with applicable federal and state privacy, security and fraud laws may prove costly. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and an Investment in Our Stock There may not be a viable market for our common stock or the price of our common stock may be volatile, and stockholders may not be able to sell their shares at prices that are attractive to them. Prior to our initial public offering in February 2012, there was no public market for our common stock, and there can be no assurance that an active and liquid trading market for our common stock will be sustained. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in our company will lead to the development of an active trading market on the NASDAQ Global Select Market or otherwise or how liquid that market might become. If an active public market does not develop or is not sustained, it may be difficult for stockholders to sell their 58 Table of Contents shares of common stock at prices that are attractive to them, or at all. Further, an inactive market may also impair our ability to raise capital by selling shares of our common stock and may impair our ability to enter into strategic partnerships or acquire companies or products, product candidates or technologies by using our shares of common stock as consideration. Stockholders may also be unable to sell their shares of common stock at prices that are attractive to them due to fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. Factors that could cause volatility in the market price of our common stock include, but are not limited to: • results from, and any delays in, clinical trial programs relating to our drug candidates, including the ongoing and planned clinical trials for Traficet-EN, CCX140, CCX354, CCX168 and other drug candidates; • announcements of regulatory approvals or disapprovals of our drug candidates, including Traficet-EN and CCX140, or delays in any regulatory agency review or approval processes; • failure or discontinuation of any of our research programs; • announcements relating to future collaborations or our existing collaboration with GSK; • general economic conditions in the United States and abroad; • acquisitions and sales of new products, technologies or business; • delays in the commercialization of any of our drug candidates; • market conditions in the pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors; • the issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports or recommendations regarding us, our competitors or our industry in general; • actual and anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights; • introduction of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • manufacturing issues related to our drug candidates for clinical trials or future products for commercialization; • market acceptance of our future products; • deviations in our operating results from the estimates of analysts, or other analyst comments; • third party payor coverage and reimbursement policies; • new legislation in the United States relating to the sale or pricing of pharmaceuticals; • FDA or other U.S. or foreign regulatory actions affecting us or our industry; • product liability claims or other litigation or public concern about the safety of our drug candidates or future drugs; • our ability to obtain necessary intellectual property licenses including, if necessary, those relating to Traficet-EN and other CCR9 drug candidates; • the outcome of any future legal actions to which we are party; • sales of our common stock by our officers, directors or significant stockholders; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • external factors, including natural disasters and other crises. In addition, the stock markets in general, and the markets for pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that have been often unrelated to the operating performance of the issuer. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price or 59 Table of Contents liquidity of our common stock. In the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against the issuer. If any of our stockholders were to bring such a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit and the attention of our management would be diverted from the operation of our business. The ownership of our common stock is highly concentrated, and these stockholders could delay or prevent a change of control. Our officers and directors, together with holders of 5% or more of our outstanding common stock and their respective affiliates, beneficially own approximately 73% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, these stockholders, acting as a group, have significant influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transaction. The interests of these stockholders may not be the same as or may even conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. For example, these stockholders could delay or prevent a change of control of our company, even if such a change of control would benefit our other stockholders, which could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company or our assets and might affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. The significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. Future sales of our common stock or securities convertible or exchangeable for our common stock may depress our stock price. Persons who were our stockholders prior to the sale of shares in our initial public offering continue to hold a substantial number of shares of our common stock that they will be able to sell in the public market in the near future. If our stockholders or holders of our convertible notes, options or warrants sell, or indicate an intention to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market after the lock-up and legal restrictions on resale resulting from our initial public offering lapse, the trading price of our common stock could decline. The perception in the market that these sales may occur could also cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. As of March 15, 2012, we had 36,163,086 shares of common stock outstanding. Of these shares, only the shares of common stock sold by us in our initial public offering, totaling 5,175,000 shares, are freely tradable, without restriction, in the public market. The underwriters may, however, in their sole discretion, permit our officers, directors and other stockholders and the holders of our outstanding options and warrants who are subject to these lock-up agreements to sell shares prior to the expiration of the lock-up agreements. We expect the lock-up agreements pertaining to our initial public offering to expire on August 7, 2012 (subject to extension upon the occurrence of specified events). After the lock-up agreements expire, up to an additional 30,754,914 shares of common stock, and up to approximately 309,500 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of our outstanding warrants, including warrants to purchase up to 150,000 shares of our common stock that we issued to Techne Corporation, or Techne, in connection with our initial public offering, will be eligible for sale in the public market, subject to volume limitations under Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, with respect to shares held by directors, executive officers and other affiliates. In addition, shares of common stock that are either subject to outstanding options or reserved for future issuance under our employee benefit plans will become eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by the provisions of various vesting schedules, the lock-up agreements and Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act and, in any event, we plan to file a registration statement permitting shares of common stock issued on exercise of options to be freely sold in the public market. If these additional shares of common stock are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Certain holders of shares of our common stock, warrants to purchase our capital stock and the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of those warrants will be entitled to rights with respect to the registration of their shares under the Securities Act, subject to the lock-up agreements described above. Registration of these 60 Table of Contents shares under the Securities Act would result in the shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act, except for shares purchased by affiliates. In addition, after the lock-up agreements described above expire, our directors may and we expect that our executive officers will establish programmed selling plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Exchange Act, for the purpose of effecting sales of our common stock. Any sales of securities by these stockholders, or the perception that those sales may occur, including the entry into such programmed selling plans, could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. If we sell shares of our common stock in future financings, common stockholders may experience immediate dilution and, as a result, our stock price may decline. We may from time to time issue additional shares of common stock at a discount from the current trading price of our common stock. As a result, our common stockholders would experience immediate dilution upon the purchase of any shares of our common stock sold at such discount. In addition, as opportunities present themselves, we may enter into financing or similar arrangements in the future, including the issuance of debt securities, preferred stock or common stock. For example, in connection with our initial public offering, in February 2012, we issued Techne a warrant with a ten-year term to purchase up to 150,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise per share equal to 200% of the initial public offering price of a share of our common stock and such warrant, if exercised, would likely be exercised at a time when the exercise price of such warrant represented a discount to the trading price of our common stock. If we issue common stock or securities convertible into common stock, our common stockholders would experience additional dilution and, as a result, our stock price may decline. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly or may fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, each of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate or decline. We expect our operating results to be subject to quarterly fluctuations. Our net loss and other operating results will be affected by numerous factors, including: • variations in the level of expenses related to our drug candidates or future development programs; • if any of our drug candidates receives regulatory approval, the level of underlying demand for these drug candidates and wholesalers’ buying patterns; • addition or termination of clinical trials or funding support; • our execution of any collaborative, licensing or similar arrangements, and the timing of payments we may make or receive under these arrangements; • any intellectual property infringement lawsuit in which we may become involved; • regulatory developments affecting our drug candidates or those of our competitors; and • our ability to secure new government contracts and allocation of our resources to or away from performing work under government contracts. If our quarterly operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Furthermore, any quarterly fluctuations in our operating results may, in turn, cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially. We believe that quarterly comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. We have broad discretion in the use of our cash and may not use it effectively. Our management has broad discretion over the use of our cash. Because of the number and variability of factors that will determine our use of cash, stockholders may not agree with how we allocate or spend our cash. We may pursue collaborations or clinical trials that do not result in an increase in the market value of our 61 Table of Contents common stock and that may increase our losses, or we may place our cash in investments that do not produce significant investment returns or that may lose value. Our failure to allocate and spend our cash effectively would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and business and could cause our stock price to decline. Provisions of our charter documents or Delaware law could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and could make it more difficult for our stockholders to change management. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempt by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult to replace or remove our board of directors. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors so that not all directors are elected at one time; • a prohibition on stockholder action through written consent; • a requirement that special meetings of stockholders be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, the chief executive officer, the president or by the board of directors; • an advance notice requirement for stockholder proposals and nominations; • the authority of our board of directors to issue preferred stock with such terms as our board of directors may determine; and • a requirement of approval of not less than 66 2/3% of all outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote to amend any bylaws by stockholder action, or to amend specific provisions of our certificate of incorporation. In addition, Delaware law prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person who, together with its affiliates, owns or within the last three years has owned 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Our employment agreements with our named executive officers may require us to pay severance benefits to any of those persons who are terminated in connection with a change of control of us, which could harm our financial condition or results. Our named executive officers are parties to employment agreements providing for aggregate cash payments of up to approximately $3.8 million for severance and other benefits and acceleration of vesting of stock options with a value of approximately $3.2 million (as of December 31, 2011) in the event of a termination of employment in connection with a change of control of us. The accelerated vesting of options could result in dilution to our stockholders and harm the market price of our common stock. The payment of these severance benefits could harm our financial condition and results. In addition, these potential severance payments may discourage or prevent third parties from seeking a business combination with us. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our capital stock in the foreseeable future, therefore capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be our stockholders’ sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our capital stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. In addition, our ability to pay cash dividends 62 Table of Contents is currently prohibited by our loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank, and any future debt financing arrangement may contain terms prohibiting or limiting the amount of dividends that may be declared or paid on our common stock. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be our stockholders’ sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research, or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research, about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends, in part, on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If no, or limited, securities or industry analysts cover our company, the trading price for our stock would likely be negatively impacted. In the event securities or industry analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. In addition, if our operating results fail to meet the forecast of analysts, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which might cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 