Risk Factors. The unpredictable nature of the developing alternative fuel U.S. automotive business may materially and adversely affect our revenue, operating results and cash flows. Although we believe that we are positioned to compete in the dedicated and bi-fuel natural gas vehicle (NGV) OEM market emerging in the U.S. and our vehicle modification and systems integration capabilities for a variety of alternative fuel applications (including hybrid, CNG, propane and dual-fuel diesel) present us with a unique advantage, the unpredictable nature of the developing alternative fuel U.S. automotive business may materially and adversely affect our revenue, operating results and cash flows as well as the recoverability of our initial investments. Our U.S. automotive business, through recent acquisitions and additional investments, has the capabilities necessary to be a leader in this market but we can not assure you that this U.S. market will continue to develop or result in increased sales for us. The development of our business is dependent on the availability of gaseous fueling infrastructure Many countries, including the United States, currently have limited or no infrastructure to deliver natural gas and propane to vehicle based consumers. Currently in the United States, alternative fuels such as natural gas cannot be readily obtained by consumers for motor vehicle use and only a small percentage of motor vehicles manufactured for the United States are equipped to use alternative fuels. Users of gaseous fuel vehicles may not be able to obtain fuel conveniently and affordably, which may adversely affect the demand for our products and services. We cannot assure you that the United States or global market for gaseous fuel engines will expand broadly or, if it does, that it will result in increased sales of our fuel system products. Reduced consumer or corporate spending due to weakness in the financial markets and uncertainties in the economy, domestically and internationally, may materially and adversely affect our revenue, operating results and cash flows. We depend on demand from the consumer, OEM, contract manufacturing, industrial, automotive and other markets we serve for the end market applications that use our products and services. All of these markets have been, and may continue to be, affected by the recent instability in global financial markets that have caused extreme economic disruption. Reductions in consumer or corporate demand for our products and services as a result of uncertain conditions in the macroeconomic environment, such as volatile energy prices, inflation, fluctuations in interest rates, difficulty securing credit, extreme volatility in security prices, diminished liquidity, or other economic factors, may materially and adversely affect our revenue, operating results and cash flows. Negative economic conditions, as those being experienced in Europe, may materially impact our customers and suppliers with which we do business. Currently, the demand in Europe for new automobiles is at its weakest in nearly two decades. Economic and financial market conditions that adversely affect our customers may cause them to terminate existing purchase orders, reduce the volume of products they purchase from us in the future or seek price concessions. In connection with the sale of products, we normally do not require collateral as security for customer receivables and do not purchase credit insurance. We may have significant balances owing from customers who operate in cyclical industries or who may not be able to secure sufficient credit in order to honor their obligations to us. Failure to collect a significant portion of amounts due on those receivables could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Adverse economic and financial market conditions may also cause our suppliers to be unable to provide materials and components to us or may cause suppliers to make changes in the credit terms they extend to us, such as shortening the required payment period for our amounts owing them or reducing the maximum amount of trade credit available to us. While we have not yet experienced changes of this type, they could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. If we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and financial markets conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for, and respond to, those changes, and we could be materially and adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents The European Union debt crisis could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and liquidity. The possibility that certain European Union (“EU”) member states will default on their debt obligations and are being required to pay significantly increased borrowing costs has negatively impacted economic conditions and contributed to instability in global markets. The continued uncertainty over the outcome of the EU’s financial support programs and the possibility that EU member states may experience serious financing obstacles could further disrupt global markets. The current debt crisis in the EU has also caused the value of the Euro to further fluctuate. Deterioration in the value of the Euro may adversely affect our customers in those countries. The world has experienced a global macroeconomic downturn. The EU debt crisis may adversely affect global market conditions and has adversely affected economic growth in the EU and other parts of Europe. If economic conditions in our key markets remain uncertain or deteriorate further, customer demand for our products could decline, and we may experience material adverse impacts on our business and operating results. We maintain a majority of our investments and liquidity in Italy and other EU countries, much of it in banks in Italy. While we have adopted investment and treasury policies which are intended to mitigate any adverse effect from the EU debt crisis, we are unable to provide assurances that the financing tension caused by the EU debt crisis will not affect our liquidity and financial resources. Currency exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our operating results and cash flows and may have a material adverse effect on our revenue and overall financial results. Because of our significant operations outside of the United States, we engage in business relationships and transactions that involve many different currencies. Exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the local currencies in these foreign locations where we do business can vary unpredictably. These variations may have an effect on the prices we pay for key materials and services from overseas vendors in our functional currencies under agreements that are priced in local currencies. If the rate of the U.S. dollar depreciates against local currencies, our effective costs for such materials and services would increase, adversely affecting our operating results and cash flows. For the year ended December 31, 2012, non-U.S. operations accounted for approximately 81.6% of our revenue. Most revenues and expenses of our non-U.S. operations are in local currency. Our financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, therefore, gains and losses on the conversion of foreign currency denominated expenses into U.S. dollars could cause fluctuations in our operating results, and fluctuating exchange rates could cause significantly reduced revenue and gross margins from non-U.S. dollar-denominated revenue, which could materially and adversely affect our overall financial results. Also, for the year ended December 31, 2012, Euro denominated revenue accounted for approximately 69.9% of our total revenue; therefore a substantial appreciation in the rate of exchange of the U.S. dollar against the Euro could have a significant adverse affect on our financial results. We currently do not engage in financial hedging against these risks and may not be able to hedge against these risks in the future. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar foreign anti-bribery laws. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions prohibit companies and their intermediaries and agents from making improper payments to foreign officials, including employees of government owned businesses, for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. During the last few years, the United States Department of Justice and the SEC have brought an increasing number of 11 Table of Contents FCPA enforcement cases, many resulting in very large fines and deferred criminal prosecutions. We operate in many countries which are viewed as high risk for FCPA compliance. Our Code of Conduct mandates compliance with the FCPA and other similar anti-bribery laws. We recently instituted training programs for our employees around the world. Despite our training programs and compliance policies, there can be no assurance that all employees and third-party intermediaries (including our distributors and agents) will comply with anti-corruption laws. Any such violation could have a material adverse effect on our business. As part of our anti-bribery policies, in the event that we have reason to believe that our employees, agents, distributors or other third parties that transact the Company’s business have or may have violated applicable anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA, we may investigate or have outside counsel or agents investigate the relevant facts and circumstances. We have incurred and in the future may incur additional compliance costs associated with the implementation of our FCPA compliance policies and training programs, which could have a material impact on our business. In any acquisition or joint venture we engage in, we expose ourselves to the possibility that the employees and agents of such businesses may not have conducted themselves in compliance with the anti-corruption laws of the FCPA. In response to increasing FCPA enforcement actions in the United States, we have sought to impose contractual provisions and undertake cost appropriate due diligence. We cannot provide assurance that we will always be protected from the consequences of acts which may have violated the FCPA. Violations of the FCPA may result in significant civil and criminal fines, as well as criminal convictions. Violations of the FCPA and other foreign anti-bribery laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and cause us to suffer civil and criminal financial penalties and other sanctions, which are likely to have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are subject to governmental certification requirements and other regulations, and more stringent regulations in the future may impair our ability to market our products. We must obtain product certification from governmental agencies, such as the Environmental Protection Agency and the California Air Resources Board, to sell certain of our products in the United States and must obtain other product certification requirements in Europe and other regions. A significant portion of our future revenue will depend upon sales of fuel management products that are certified to meet existing and future air quality and energy standards. We cannot assure you that our products will meet these standards in the future. We incur significant research and developments costs to ensure that our products comply with emissions standards and meet certification requirements in the countries where our products are sold. Our failure to comply with certification requirements could result in the recall of our products as well as civil and/or criminal penalties. Any new government regulation that affects our alternative fuel technologies, whether at the foreign, federal, state, or local level, including any regulations relating to installation and service of these systems, may increase our costs and the price of our systems and adversely affect the effectiveness of the related technologies. As a result, these regulations could materially and adversely affect us. We maintain a significant investment in inventory and have made significant investments in the expansion of our operations to meet demand for our product without long-term contracts with customers. A decline in our customers’ purchases would lead to a decline in our revenue and could result in a decrease in our operating results and cash flows. We do not have long-term contracts with our customers. Generally, our product sales are made on a purchase order basis, which allows our customers to reduce or discontinue their purchases from us. Accordingly, we cannot predict the timing, frequency or size of our future customer orders. Our ability to accurately forecast our sales is further complicated by the current global economic and financial uncertainty. We maintain significant inventories (approximately 69.9% of total inventory) at FSS Automotive Group, the principal operating company in our transportation division, in an effort to ensure that our European transportation customers have a reliable source of supply. Our total inventory at December 31, 2012 was $104.1 million, an increase of $0.7 million compared to our total inventory at December 31, 2011. If we fail to anticipate the 12 Table of Contents changing needs of our customers and accurately forecast our customer demands, our existing and potential customers may not place orders with us, which would decrease our revenue, and we may accumulate significant inventories of products that we will be unable to sell which may result in a significant decline in the value of our inventory. As a result, our revenue, gross profit and other operating results and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we expanded our operational capacity, including opening new facilities in Italy, to address increased demand for our fuel systems components and systems, and we increased substantially our investment in research and development. We may continue to make significant investments in our business without any guarantees or long-term commitments from our customers that they will continue to purchase our components and systems with the same timing, frequency and size as we expect. As a result, if there is insufficient demand for our components and systems, we may not recover the costs of any increased investment in our operations, which could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. An expansion of OEM offering of gaseous fuel vehicles employing internally developed OEM technology would likely result in a decrease in our revenue and profit margins. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from the sale of gaseous fuel systems and components to automobile OEMs. An expansion in the offering of OEM gaseous fuel vehicles employing internally developed OEM technology could reduce demand for our systems and components and would likely have a negative impact on our revenue and profits. We currently face, and will continue to face, significant competition, which could materially and adversely affect us. We currently compete with companies that manufacture products to convert liquid-fueled internal combustion engines to gaseous fuels. Our competitors in the future may have greater name recognition, larger customer bases, broader global reach and a wider array of product lines, as well as greater financial resources and access to capital than we have. We are also subject to competition from other alternative fuels and alternative fuel technologies, including ethanol, electric and hybrid electric and fuel cells, and we cannot assure you that such technologies will not be favored over gaseous fuel technologies in the future. We also cannot assure you that our competitors will not create new and improved innovative gaseous fuel technologies. Increases in the market for alternative fuel vehicles may cause automobile or engine manufacturers to develop and produce their own fuel conversion or fuel management equipment rather than purchasing the equipment from suppliers such as us or to employ competing technologies. Further, greater acceptance of alternative fuel engines may result in new competitors. Should any of these events occur, either alone or in combination, the total potential demand for, and pricing of, our products could be negatively affected and cause us to lose business, which could materially and adversely affect us. New technologies may render our existing products obsolete, which could materially and adversely affect us. New developments in technology may negatively affect the development or sale of some or all of our products or make our products obsolete. Our inability to enhance existing products in a timely manner or to develop and introduce new products that incorporate new technologies, conform to increasingly stringent emission standards and performance requirements, and achieve market acceptance in a timely manner could negatively impact our competitive position and may materially and adversely affect us. New product development or modification is costly, involves significant research, development, time and expense and may not necessarily result in the successful commercialization of any new products. 13 Table of Contents Fluctuation in oil or natural gas prices may result in a decline in the demand for our products and services, which would materially and adversely affect our revenue, operating results and cash flows. We believe that our sales are favorably impacted by changes in consumer demand prompted by rising oil prices and concern over potential increases in oil prices. Conversely, when oil prices decrease and remain low or continue to decrease, it may result in a decline of the demand for our products and services. In addition, volatility in the price of natural gas may have an equal though opposite impact on the demand for our products and services. The potential decline in the demand for our products and services caused by these price fluctuations could materially and adversely affect our revenue, operating results and cash flows. Our business is directly and significantly affected by regulations relating to reducing vehicle emissions. If current regulations are repealed or if the implementation of current regulations is suspended or delayed, our revenue, operating results and cash flows may decrease significantly. If regulations relating to vehicle emissions are amended in a manner that may allow for more lenient standards, or if the implementation of such currently existing standards is delayed or suspended, the demand for our products and services could diminish, and our revenue, operating results and cash flows could decrease significantly. In addition, demand for our products and services may be adversely affected by the perception that emission regulations will be suspended or delayed. Accordingly, we rely on stricter emissions regulations, the adoption of which are out of our control and cannot be assured, to stimulate our growth. Changes in tax policies and governmental incentives may reduce or eliminate the economic benefits that make our products attractive to consumers, which could materially and adversely affect us. In some jurisdictions and from time to time, government authorities may provide tax benefits and incentives for clean-air vehicles, including tax credits, rebates and reductions in applicable tax rates. In certain of our markets, these benefits extend to vehicles powered by our systems and create economic benefits for our customers. Changes in these tax benefits or incentives, such as the expiration at the end of 2009 of the Italian government’s economic incentives for the purchase of new dual fuel consumer automobiles, may reduce or eliminate the economic benefits that make our products attractive to customers, which could materially and adversely affect us. Government authorities in some countries may from time to time use fuel prices as an instrument of fiscal policy and taxation may vary for different types of fuels, including gaseous fuels. Changes in taxation can affect the retail prices for alternative fuels which can negatively impact the attractiveness of our products. Some of our foreign subsidiaries have done, and may continue to do, business in countries subject to U.S. sanctions and embargoes. Some of our foreign subsidiaries in the past have sold fuel delivery systems, related parts and accessories to customers in countries currently subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government, the European Union (“EU”), the United Nations, and other countries when we did not believe such sales violated these sanctions or embargoes. We may sell products into countries currently subject to sanctions or embargoes if we believe those sales would not violate the sanctions or embargos and the changing embargo regimes with respect to such countries do not present inappropriate business risks. However, the sanctions are complex and are constantly changing. Changing embargo and sanction regimes can make unlawful activities which were previously lawful. We may decide not to sell into countries because of the risk of changing regimes. We believe we have procedures in place to conduct U.S. and foreign operations without violating U.S., EU, or other sanctions. However, if we fail to comply with U.S. sanctions, EU sanctions or other sanctions, we could be subject to material fines and penalties and incur damage to our reputation, which may lead to a reduction in the market price of our common stock. In addition, our foreign subsidiaries’ sales into such countries, even if they did not violate the sanctions and embargos, could reduce demand for our common stock among certain of our investors. 14 Table of Contents New regulations related to “conflict minerals” may force us to incur additional expenses, may make our supply chain more complex and may result in damage to our reputation with customers. On August 22, 2012, under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, the SEC adopted new requirements for companies that use certain minerals and metals, known as conflict minerals, in their products, whether or not these products are manufactured by third parties. These requirements will require companies to perform due diligence, disclose and report whether or not such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. Although it is not clear whether these requirements will apply to us, the implementation of these new requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of minerals used in the manufacture of our products. In addition, we may incur additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals and metals used in our products. Since our supply chain is complex, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins for these minerals and metals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may harm our reputation. In addition, we may incur additional costs as a result of changes to product, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of these new requirements. We engage in related party transactions, which result in a conflict of interest involving our management. We have engaged in the past, and continue to engage, in a significant number of related party transactions, specifically between the Company’s foreign subsidiaries and members of the family of our Chief Executive Officer, Director and largest stockholder, his brother Pier Antonio Costamagna (one of our executive officers who is General Manager of MTM, S.r.L., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company), companies in which our Chief Executive Officer’s family has controlling or other ownership interests. Our Board, its Audit Committee and its Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee seek to review on an ongoing basis related party transactions as well as new transactions which may be proposed for various issues related to the effect on our business. We cannot assure you that the terms of the transactions with these various related parties are on terms as favorable to us as those that could have been obtained in arm’s-length transactions with third parties, or that the existing policies and procedures are sufficient to identify and completely address conflicts of interest that may arise. Related party transactions could result in related parties receiving more favorable treatment than an unaffiliated third party would receive, although these parties may provide goods or services that are not readily available elsewhere in some situations. In addition, related party transactions present difficult conflicts of interest, could result in significant and minor disadvantages to our company and may impair investor confidence, which could materially and adversely affect us. Related party transactions could also cause us to become materially dependent on related parties in the ongoing conduct of our business, and related parties may be motivated by personal interests to pursue courses of action that are not necessarily in the best interests of our company and our stockholders. Rohan BRC, our India joint venture, has suffered financial losses and may be unable to pay on amounts owed to our subsidiary MTM for the purchase of components. We have invested in a joint venture in India, Rohan BRC. Rohan BRC’s losses over the period of our investment have exceeded the aggregate amount of our investment in and loans to Rohan BRC. We have over different periods impaired the entire balance of the loans and the investment due to the losses. In addition, our subsidiary MTM sells components to Rohan BRC. In the third quarter of 2012, we began accounting for new sales to Rohan BRC on the cash basis; revenue attributed to new sales to Rohan BRC was deferred until receipt of payment and all goods sold to Rohan BRC and not paid for by Rohan BRC was then recorded for accounting purposes on a consignment basis. As of December 31, 2012, the receivable recorded to Rohan BRC totaled $0.8 million and the inventory recorded as on consignment totaled $3.3 million. We may never realize any value from our investment or loans to Rohan BRC. Moreover, Rohan BRC may be unable to pay amounts owed to MTM and we do not have the ability to control their day-to-day operations or their management. 15 Table of Contents We have a significant amount of goodwill and intangible assets that may become impaired, which could impact our results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2012, we recognized an impairment charge of approximately $9.9 million representing the write-off of goodwill and an impairment charge of approximately $9.9 million representing write off of intangible assets associated with two of our reporting units. Approximately $15.2 million, or 3.6%, of our total assets at December 31, 2012 were net intangible assets, including technology, customer relationships and trade name, and approximately $49.2 million, or 11.7%, of our total assets at December 31, 2012 were goodwill that relates to our acquisitions. We amortize the intangible assets, with the exception of goodwill, based on our estimate of their remaining useful lives and their values at the time of acquisition. We are required to test goodwill for impairment at least on an annual basis, or earlier if we determine it may be impaired due to change in circumstances. We are required to test the other intangible assets with definite useful lives for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of the intangible assets may not be recoverable. If impairment exists in any of these assets, we are required to write-down the related asset to its estimated recoverable value as of the measurement date. Such impairment write-downs may significantly impact our results of operations and financial position. We may not be able to successfully integrate our acquired businesses or any future acquired businesses into our existing worldwide business without substantial expenses, delays or other operational or financial problems. As a part of our business strategy, we may seek to acquire additional businesses, technologies or products in the future. We cannot assure you that any acquisition or any future transaction we complete will result in long-term benefits to us or our stockholders or that our management will be able to integrate or manage the acquired business effectively, efficiently and in a timely manner. We could also incur unanticipated expenses or losses in connection with any acquisition, including as a result of disputes associated with an earn-out right, or future transaction. Acquisitions entail numerous risks, including difficulties associated with the integration of operations, technologies, products and personnel that, if realized, could harm our operating results. Risks related to potential acquisitions include, but are not limited to: • difficulties in combining previously separate businesses into a single unit; • inability to overcome differences in foreign business practices, accounting practices, customs and importation regulations, language and other barriers in connection with the acquisition of foreign companies; • substantial diversion of management’s time and attention from day-to-day business when evaluating and negotiating such transactions and then integrating an acquired business; • discovery, after completion of the acquisition, of liabilities assumed from the acquired business or of assets acquired that are not realizable; • costs and delays in implementing, and the potential difficulty in maintaining, uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, including the integration of different information systems; • the presence or absence of adequate internal controls and/or significant fraud in the financial systems of acquired companies; and • failure to achieve anticipated benefits, such as cost savings and revenue enhancements. 16 Table of Contents We face risks associated with marketing, distributing, and servicing our products internationally and could be adversely affected if we are unable to grow our business in developing and emerging markets or as a result of political and economic instability or civil unrest in these markets. In addition to our operations in the United States, we currently operate in Canada, Italy, Australia, the Netherlands, Japan, Brazil, Argentina and Venezuela, and market our products and technologies in other international markets, including both industrialized and developing countries. During the year ended December 31, 2012, approximately 25.0% of our revenue was derived from sales to customers located within the United States and Canada, and the remaining 75.0% was derived from sales in Asia-Pacific, Europe, and Latin America. During the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately 26.5% of our revenue was derived from sales to customers located within the United States and Canada, and the remaining 73.5% was derived from sales in Asia-Pacific, Europe, and Latin America. During 2010, approximately 13.7% of our revenue was derived from sales to customers located within the United States and Canada, and the remaining 86.3% was derived from sales in Asia-Pacific, Europe, and Latin America. Additionally, approximately 83.1% of our employees and 71.3% of our distributors and dealers worldwide are located outside the United States. Political and economic instability or civil unrest in the markets where we operate, including Venezuela, could have a material adverse impact on our sales. Our combined international operations are subject to various risks common to international activities, such as the following: • our ability to maintain good relations with our overseas employees, suppliers, distributors and customers to collect amounts owed from our overseas customers; • the possibility that our distributors and agents will continue to sell products into countries subject to United States sanctions notwithstanding our policies prohibiting such sales; • expenses and administrative difficulties associated with maintaining a significant labor force outside the United States, including, without limitation, the need to comply with employment and tax laws and to adhere to the terms of real property leases and other financing arrangements in foreign nations; • exposure to currency fluctuations; • potential difficulties in enforcing contractual obligations and intellectual property rights; • complying with a wide variety of laws and regulations, including product certification, environmental, and import and export laws; • the challenges of operating in disparate geographies and cultures; • political and economic instability; and • adverse tax consequences, including, without limitation, restrictions on our ability to repatriate dividends from our subsidiaries. We depend on a limited number of third party suppliers for key materials and components for our products. We have established relationships with third party suppliers that provide materials and components for our products. A supplier’s failure to supply materials or components in a timely manner or to supply materials and components that meet our quality, quantity or cost requirements, combined with a delay in our ability to obtain substitute sources for these materials and components in a timely manner or on terms acceptable to us, would harm our ability to manufacture our products effectively, or would significantly increase our production costs, either of which could materially and adversely affect us. In addition, we rely on a limited number of suppliers for certain proprietary die cast parts, electronics, software, catalysts and engines for use in our end products. Approximately 24.4%, 23.5%, and 28.9%, of our purchases of raw materials and services during the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively, were supplied by ten entities. During 2012 and 2011, no suppliers represented more than 10.0% of our purchases of raw materials and services. During 2010, one supplier represented 10.3% of our purchases of raw materials and services. 17 Table of Contents Class action litigation due to stock price volatility or other factors could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert our management’s time and attention. From January 1, 2012 through December 31, 2012, our stock price fluctuated from a low of $13.52 to a high of $28.89. For 2011, our stock price fluctuated from a low of $15.55 to a high of $30.51. For 2010, our stock price fluctuated from a low of $24.50 to a high of $51.94. In the past, securities class action litigation often has been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. Any securities litigation could result in substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of our management. Our actual operating results may differ materially from our guidance. From time to time, we release guidance in our quarterly earnings releases, quarterly earnings conference calls or otherwise, regarding our future performance that represent our management’s estimates as of the date of release. This guidance, which includes forward-looking statements, is based on projections prepared by our management. These projections are not prepared with a view toward compliance with published guidelines of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and neither our registered public accountants nor any other independent expert or outside party compiles or examines the projections and, accordingly, no such person expresses any opinion or any other form of assurance with respect thereto. Projections are based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control and are based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which will change. The principal reason that we release guidance is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by any such persons. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions and estimates inherent in the guidance furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, our guidance is only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results will vary from our guidance and the variations may be material. In light of the foregoing, investors are urged not to rely upon, or otherwise consider, our guidance in making an investment decision in respect of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 18 Table of Contents 