Item 1A. Risk Factors. Expiration of Italian government incentives for post-production OEM conversions will adversely affect our revenue and operating results. The Italian government in early 2009 provided significantly increased economic incentives for the purchase before December 31, 2009 of new dual fuel consumer automobiles, commercial transportation vehicles and motorbikes which use compressed natural gas (NPG) or liquid propane gas (LPG). These incentives apply to automobiles ordered by customers prior to December 31, 2009 and delivered to customers thereafter. These incentives, combined with our investment in OEM conversion facilities in Italy, stimulated significant growth during 2009 of our BRC division revenues and operating income. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Italian government has not publicized any decision regarding the extension of these incentives into 2010 however we do not believe that they will be extended for 2010. While we believe the Italian government incentives for 2009 purchases increased demand for our post-production OEM conversions in Italy, we also believe that demand is stimulated by the lower price, when compared to gasoline, of CNG and LPG in Italy and elsewhere in Europe. We can offer no assurance that the incentives will be continued or will not be significantly reduced. The expiration or reduction of the Italian government incentives may significantly reduce demand for our post-production OEM conversions and, accordingly, materially reduce the revenue and operating results from our BRC operations and thereby our company as a whole. Reduced consumer or corporate spending due to weakness in the financial and credit markets and uncertainties in the economy, domestically and internationally, may adversely affect our revenue and operating results. We depend on demand from the consumer, original equipment manufacturer, contract manufacturing, industrial, automotive and other markets we serve for the end market applications that use our products. All of these markets have been and may continue to be affected by the recent instability in global financial markets that have caused extreme economic disruption. Reductions in consumer or corporate demand for our products as a result of uncertain conditions in the macroeconomic environment, such as volatile energy prices, inflation, fluctuations in interest rates, difficulty securing credit, extreme volatility in security prices, diminished liquidity, mortgage failures, or other economic factors, negatively affect our revenue and operating results could be adversely affected. We realized a slow decline in demand for products in the industrial market during most of 2009, which impacted sales in our IMPCO operating division. The demand for our products in the automotive aftermarket and from post-production OEMs, however, continued to increase during most of 2009. Negative economic conditions may also materially impact our customers, suppliers and other parties with which we do business. Economic and financial market conditions that adversely affect our customers may cause them to terminate existing purchase orders or to reduce the volume of products they purchase from us in the future. In connection with the sale of products, we normally do not require collateral as security for customer receivables and do not purchase credit insurance. We may have significant balances owing from customers who operate in cyclical industries or who may not be able to secure sufficient credit in order to honor their obligations to us. Failure to collect a significant portion of amounts due on those receivables could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Adverse economic and financial market conditions may also cause our suppliers to be unable to provide materials and components to us or may cause suppliers to make changes in the credit terms they extend to us, such as shortening the required payment period for our amounts owing them or reducing the maximum amount of trade credit available to us. While we have not yet experienced changes of this type, they could significantly affect our liquidity and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and financial markets conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for and respond to those changes, and our business could be negatively affected. We maintain a significant investment in inventory and have recently made significant investments in the expansion of our operations to meet recent increases in demand for our product without long-term contracts with customers. A decline in our customers’ purchases could lead to a decline in our sales and profitability. We do not have long-term contracts with many of our customers. Generally, our product sales are made on a purchase order basis, which allows our customers to reduce or discontinue their purchases from us. Accordingly, we cannot predict the timing, frequency or size of our future customer orders. Our ability to accurately forecast our sales is further complicated by the current global economic uncertainty. We maintain significant inventories at BRC Group, the principal operating company in our transportation division, in an effort to ensure that our European transportation customers have a reliable source of supply. Our total inventory at December 31, 2009 was $90.4 million, a decrease of $2.2 million compared to our total inventory at December 31, 2008. If we fail to anticipate the changing needs of our customers and accurately forecast our customer demands, our customers may not continue to place orders with us, and we may accumulate significant inventories of products that we will be unable to sell or return to our vendors. This may result in a significant decline in the value of our inventory and a decrease to our future gross profit. 9 Table of Contents In addition, due in part to fluctuations in gasoline prices that have oriented automotive manufacturers to promote gaseous fuel equipment and the perceived environmental benefits from alternative fuels, we have experienced a recent, significant increase in the demand for our fuel systems components and systems. To meet this increase in demand, we have recently expanded our operational capacity, including opening new facilities in Italy. We may continue to make significant investments in our business to increase our operational capacity without any guarantees or long-term commitments from our customers that they will continue to purchase our components and systems with the same timing, frequency and size as we expect. As a result, we may not recover the costs of any increased investment in our operations which could have a material, adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Fluctuation in oil prices may adversely affect the demand for our products. We believe that our sales in recent years have been favorably impacted by changes in consumer demand prompted by rising oil prices and concern over potential increases in oil prices. Conversely, when oil prices decrease and remain low or continue to decrease, it may result in a decline of the demand for our products, which would adversely affect our revenue, operating results and cash flows. We are dependent on certain key customers, and the loss of one or more customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. A substantial portion of our business results from sales to key customers. In the year ended December 31, 2009, two customers represented 13.0% and 11.6% of our consolidated sales, respectively. In the year ended December 31, 2008, one customer represented 10.7% of our consolidated sales. In the year ended December 31, 2007, no customer represented more than 10.0% of our consolidated sales. Sales to our top ten customers during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 accounted for approximately 62.0%, 36.3%, and 39.7% of our consolidated sales, respectively. If our largest customer or several of these key customers were to reduce their orders substantially, we would suffer a decline in revenue and profits, and those declines could be material and adverse. Currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations may have a significant adverse effect on our revenue, sales and overall financial results. For the year ended December 31, 2009, non-U.S. operations accounted for approximately 91.1% of our revenue and approximately 72.6% of our cash. Therefore, gains and losses on the conversion of foreign currency denominated expenses into U.S. dollars could cause fluctuations in our results of operations, and fluctuating exchange rates could cause significantly reduced revenue and/or gross margins from non-U.S. dollar-denominated international revenue. Also, for the year ended December 31, 2009, Euro denominated revenue accounted for approximately 83% of our total revenue; therefore a substantial change in the rate of exchange between the U.S. dollar and the Euro could have a significant adverse affect on our financial results. If the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Euro shifts significantly because of a strengthening U.S. dollar, a large portion of our revenue may be reduced in the translation from Euro to U.S. dollar for financial reporting purposes. We currently do not and may not in the future be able to hedge against these risks. Adverse currency fluctuations may hinder our ability to economically procure key materials and services from overseas vendors and suppliers, may affect the value of our debt, and may affect our profit margins. Because of our significant operations outside of the United States, we engage in business relationships and transactions that involve many different currencies. Exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the local currencies in these foreign locations where we do business can vary unpredictably. These variations may have an effect on the prices we pay for key materials and services from overseas vendors in our functional currencies under agreements that are priced in local currencies. If exchange rates with local currencies decline, our effective costs for such materials and services would increase, adversely affecting our profitability. We face risks associated with marketing, distributing, and servicing our products internationally. In addition to our operations in the United States, we currently operate in Italy, Australia, the Netherlands, Japan, Brazil and Argentina, and market our products and technologies in other international markets, including both industrialized and developing countries. During 2009 and 2008, approximately 8% and 13% of our revenue, respectively, was derived from sales to customers located within the United States and Canada, and the remaining 92% and 87%, respectively, was derived from sales in Asia, Europe, Latin America and the Middle East where economics and fuel availability make our products more competitive. Additionally, approximately 91% of our employees and 75% of our approximately 364 distributors and dealers worldwide are located outside the United States. Our combined international operations are subject to various risks common to international activities, such as the following: • our ability to maintain good relations with our overseas employees and distributors and to collect amounts owed from our overseas customers; 10 Table of Contents • expenses and administrative difficulties associated with maintaining a significant labor force outside the United States, including without limitation the need to comply with employment and tax laws and to adhere to the terms of real property leases and other financing arrangements in foreign nations; • exposure to currency fluctuations; • potential difficulties in enforcing contractual obligations and intellectual property rights; • complying with a wide variety of laws and regulations, including product certification, environmental, and import and export laws; • the challenges of operating in disparate geographies and cultures; • political and economic instability; and • restrictions on our ability to repatriate dividends from our subsidiaries. We currently face and will continue to face significant competition, which could result in a decrease in our revenue. We currently compete with companies that manufacture products to convert liquid-fueled internal combustion engines to gaseous fuels. We are also subject to competition from other alternative fuels and alternative fuel technologies including ethanol, electric and hybrid electric and fuel cells. Increases in the market for alternative fuel vehicles may cause automobile or engine manufacturers to develop and produce their own fuel conversion or fuel management equipment rather than purchasing the equipment from suppliers such as us or to employ competing technologies. Further, greater acceptance of alternative fuel engines may result in new competitors. Should any of these events occur, either alone or in combination, the total potential demand for our products could be adversely affected and cause us to lose existing business. Our business is directly and significantly affected by regulations relating to reducing vehicle emissions. If current regulations are repealed or if the implementation of current regulations is suspended or delayed, our revenue may decrease. If regulations relating to vehicle emissions are amended in a manner that may allow for more lenient standards, or if the implementation of such currently existing standards is delayed or suspended, the demand for our products and services could diminish, and our revenue could decrease. In addition, demand for our products and services may be adversely affected by the perception that emission regulations will be suspended or delayed. In addition, we rely on emissions regulations, the adoption of which is out of our control, to stimulate our growth. We are subject to governmental certification requirements and other regulations, and future more stringent regulations may impair our ability to market our products. We must obtain product certification from governmental agencies, such as the EPA and the California Air Resources Board, to sell certain of our products in the United States and must obtain other product certification requirements in Europe and other regions. A significant portion of our future sales will depend upon sales of fuel management products that are certified to meet existing and future air quality and energy standards. We cannot assure you that our products will continue to meet these standards. We incur significant research and developments costs to ensure that our products comply with emissions standards and meet certification requirements in the countries where our products are sold. The failure to comply with certification requirements could result in the recall of our products or civil or criminal penalties. Any new government regulation that affects our alternative fuel technologies, whether at the foreign, federal, state, or local level, including any regulations relating to installation and service of these systems, may increase our costs and the price of our systems. As a result, these regulations may have a negative impact on our revenue and profitability and thereby harm our business, prospects, results of operations or financial condition. Changes in tax policies and governmental incentives may reduce or eliminate the economic benefits that make our products attractive to consumers. In some jurisdictions, governments provide tax benefits and incentives for clean-air vehicles, including tax credits, rebates and reductions in applicable tax rates. In certain of our markets, these benefits extend to vehicles powered by our systems. From time to time, governments change tax policies in ways that create benefits such as those for our customers. Reductions in or elimination of these tax benefits or incentives may adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents The potential growth of non-gaseous alternative fuel products and lack of gaseous fueling infrastructure will have a significant impact on our business. Our future success depends on the continued global expansion of the gaseous fuel industry. We recently announced the expansion of our automotive alternative fuel transportation business into the United States. Many countries, including the United States, currently have limited or no infrastructure to deliver natural gas and propane. Major growth of the United States and international markets for gaseous fuel vehicles is significantly dependent on United States and international politics, governmental policies and restrictions related to business management. In the United States, alternative fuels such as natural gas currently cannot be readily obtained by consumers for motor vehicle use, and only a small percentage of motor vehicles manufactured for the United States are equipped to use alternative fuels. Users of gaseous fuel vehicles may not be able to obtain fuel conveniently and affordably, which may adversely affect the demand for our products. We do not expect this trend to improve in the United States in the foreseeable future. Our ability to attract customers and sell products successfully in the alternative fuel industry also depends significantly on the current price differential between liquid fuels and gaseous fuels. We cannot assure you that the United States or global market for gaseous fuel engines will expand broadly or, if it does, that it will result in increased sales of our fuel system products. In addition, we have designed many of our products for gaseous fuel vehicles powered by internal combustion engines, but not for other power sources, such as electricity or alternate forms of power. If there is major growth in the market relating to those power sources, our revenue may not increase and may decline. We depend on a limited number of third party suppliers for key materials and components for our products. We have established relationships with third party suppliers that provide materials and components for our products. A supplier’s failure to supply materials or components in a timely manner or to supply materials and components that meet our quality, quantity or cost requirements, combined with a delay in our ability to obtain substitute sources for these materials and components in a timely manner or on terms acceptable to us, would harm our ability to manufacture our products or would significantly increase our production costs, either of which would negatively impact our results of operations and business. In addition, we rely on a limited number of suppliers for certain proprietary die cast parts, electronics, software, catalysts as well as engines for use in our end products. Approximately 45.7%, 34.6%, and 36.9% of our purchases of raw materials and services during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively, were supplied by ten entities. During 2009, one supplier represented 12.4% of the consolidated raw materials and services. During 2008, no suppliers represented more than 10% of the consolidated purchases of raw materials and services. In 2007, one supplier accounted for approximately 10.4% of our purchases of raw materials and services. We could incur significant costs in the event that we are forced to utilize alternative suppliers. We may not be able to successfully integrate our recently acquired business or any future acquired businesses into our existing worldwide business without substantial expenses, delays or other operational or financial problems. During 2009 we acquired the Argentine companies Distribuidora Shopping S.A. and Tomasetto Achille, S.A., the Teleflex Power Business, and as a part of our business strategy we may seek to acquire additional businesses, technologies or products in the future. We cannot assure you that any acquisition or any future transaction we complete will result in long-term benefits to us or our stockholders, or that our management will be able to integrate or manage the acquired business effectively. We could also incur unanticipated expenses or losses in connection with any acquisition or future transaction. Acquisitions entail numerous risks, including difficulties associated with the integration of operations, technologies, products and personnel that, if realized, could harm our operating results. Risks related to potential acquisitions include, but are not limited to: • difficulties in combining previously separate businesses into a single unit; • inability to overcome differences in foreign business practices, accounting practices, customs and importation regulations, language and other barriers in connection with the acquisition of foreign companies; • substantial diversion of management’s attention from day-to-day business when evaluating and negotiating such transactions and then integrating an acquired business; • discovery, after completion of the acquisition, of liabilities assumed from the acquired business or of assets acquired that are not realizable; • costs and delays in implementing, and the potential difficulty in maintaining, uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, including the integration of different information systems; • the presence or absence of adequate internal controls and/or significant fraud in the financial systems of acquired companies; and • failure to achieve anticipated benefits such as cost savings and revenue enhancements. 12 Table of Contents New technologies could render our existing products obsolete. New developments in technology may negatively affect the development or sale of some or all of our products or make our products obsolete. Our inability to enhance existing products in a timely manner or to develop and introduce new products that incorporate new technologies, conform to increasingly stringent emission standards and performance requirements, and achieve market acceptance in a timely manner could negatively impact our competitive position. New product development or modification is costly, involves significant research, development, time and expense and may not necessarily result in the successful commercialization of any new products. Some of our foreign subsidiaries have done and may continue to do business in countries subject to U.S. sanctions and embargoes, including Iran, and we have limited managerial oversight over those activities. As a result, potential investors may choose to not invest in our common stock. From time to time, some of our foreign subsidiaries sell fuel delivery systems, related parts and accessories to customers in Iran, a country that is currently subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government and the United Nations and a country identified by the U.S. government as a terrorist-sponsoring state. Although these sanctions and embargoes do not prohibit our foreign subsidiaries from selling products and providing services in Iran, they do prohibit Fuel Systems and our domestic subsidiaries, as well as employees of our foreign subsidiaries who are U.S. citizens, from participating in, approving or otherwise facilitating any aspect of the business activities in that country. The constraints on our ability to have U.S. persons, including our senior management, provide managerial oversight and supervision over sales in Iran may negatively affect the financial or operating performance of such business activities. We have procedures in place to conduct these operations in compliance with applicable U.S. laws. However, failure to comply with U.S. laws in our foreign operations could result in material fines and penalties, damage to our reputation and a reduction in the value of our shares of common stock. In addition, our foreign subsidiaries’ activities in Iran could reduce demand for our stock among certain of our investors. Certain potential investors may avoid investing in our common stock for political reasons, rather than for business reasons. We are highly dependent on certain key personnel. Our success depends on the management and leadership skills of our senior management team. The unexpected loss of any of these individuals or an inability to attract and retain additional personnel could impede or prevent the implementation of our business strategy. Although we have incentives for management to stay with us, we cannot assure that we will be able to retain all of our existing senior management personnel or attract additional qualified personnel when needed. Mariano Costamagna’s employment agreement may limit our Board of Directors’ ability to change our senior management. Mariano Costamagna, BRC’s co-founder, our Chief Executive Officer and a member of our Board of Directors, has entered into an employment agreement with us that is effective from January 1, 2009 until December 31, 2012. His new employment agreement provides for an annual base salary of $145,000 paid in U.S. dollars and €335,000 paid in Euros, as well as bonuses, benefits and expenses. If, during the term of his employment, we terminate Mr. Costamagna’s employment other than for “cause” or disability or if Mr. Costamagna resigns for “good reason,” we must pay Mr. Costamagna a severance payment equal to $5.0 million divided into five equal installments (the first of which is due on the 60th day following termination with subsequent installments due on each anniversary of termination); provided that Mr. Costamagna abides by certain covenants limiting his ability to compete with us, solicit our employees or interfere with our business during those four years following his termination. The required severance payment may limit our Board of Directors’ ability to decide whether to retain or to replace Mr. Costamagna or to reallocate management responsibilities among our senior executives, a fact that may, in certain circumstances, have an adverse effect on our business, operations and financial condition. Unionized labor disputes at original equipment manufacturer facilities can negatively affect our product sales. As we become more dependent on vehicle conversion programs with OEMs, we will become increasingly dependent on OEM production and the associated labor forces at OEM sites. For 2009 and 2008, direct OEM product sales accounted for approximately 64.5% and 39.5% of our revenue, respectively. Labor unions represent most of the labor forces at OEM facilities. In the past, labor disputes have occurred at OEM facilities, which have adversely impacted our direct OEM product sales. Such labor disputes are likely to occur in the future and, if they do occur, will negatively impact our sales and profitability. 13 Table of Contents Our business is subject to seasonal influences. Operating results for any quarter are not indicative of the results that may be achieved for any subsequent quarter or for a full year. Many of the factors that impact our operating results are beyond our control and difficult to predict. They include seasonal work patterns due to vacations and holidays, particularly in our European manufacturing facilities, and fluctuations in demand for the end-user products in which our products are placed. Our existing debt could adversely affect our business and growth prospects. At December 31, 2009, we had approximately $19.4 million of outstanding debt and credit lines that allow us to borrow up to an aggregate of $58.7 million. Our level of debt, the cash flow needed to satisfy our debt and the covenants contained in our credit agreements could: • limit funds otherwise available for financing our capital expenditures by requiring us to dedicate a portion of our cash flows from operations to the repayment of debt and the interest on this debt; • limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness; • limit our ability to capitalize on significant business opportunities; • place us at a competitive disadvantage to those of our competitors that are less indebted than we are; • make us more vulnerable to rising interest rates; • make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business; and • prevent us from obtaining additional financing on acceptable terms or limit amounts available under our existing or any future credit facilities. For additional information regarding our debt, please see the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of Item 7 “Management’s Discussion of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We engage in related party transactions, which could result in a conflict of interest involving our management. We have engaged in the past, and continue to engage, in a significant number of related party transactions, specifically between the Company’s foreign subsidiaries and members of the family of our CEO and largest shareholder, his brother, companies our CEO’s family owns in part or may control and companies that employees and service providers own in whole or in part and former owners of the companies we have purchased in foreign countries. Many of these relationships stem from the fact that when we acquired these foreign subsidiaries they were privately owned and such transactions are not uncommon in privately owned companies. Our Board and its Committees seek to review such related party transactions which are on going and review new transactions which may be proposed for various issues related to the effect on our business. We cannot assure you that the terms of the transactions with these various related parties are on terms as favorable to us as those that could have been obtained in arm’s-length transactions with third parties, or that the existing policies and procedures are sufficient to identify and completely address conflicts of interest that may arise. Related party transactions could result in related parties receiving more favorable treatment than an unaffiliated third party would receive, although these parties may provide goods or services that are not readily available elsewhere in some situations. In addition, related party transactions present difficult conflicts of interest, could result in significant and minor disadvantages to our company and may impair investor confidence, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Related party transactions could also cause us to become materially dependent on related parties in the ongoing conduct of our business, and related parties may be motivated by personal interests to pursue courses of action that are not necessarily in the best interests of our company and our shareholders. We have a significant amount of goodwill and intangible assets that may become impaired, which could impact our results of operations. Approximately $24.1 million or 5.8% of our total assets at December 31, 2009 were net intangible assets, including technology, customer relationships, trade name, and approximately $54.2 million or 13.0% of our total assets at December 31, 2009 were goodwill that relates to our acquisitions. We amortize the intangible assets, with the exception of goodwill, based on our estimate of their remaining useful lives and their values at the time of acquisition. We are required to test goodwill for impairment at least on an annual basis, or earlier if we determine it may be impaired due to change in circumstances. We are required to test the other intangible assets with definite useful lives for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of the intangible assets may not be recoverable. If impairment exists in any of these assets, we are required to write-down the asset to its estimated recoverable value as of the measurement date. Such impairment write-downs may significantly impact our results of operations. Future sales of our common stock could adversely affect our stock price. Substantial sales of our common stock, including shares issued upon exercise of our outstanding options, in the public market or the perception by the market that these sales could occur, could lower our stock price or make it difficult for us to 14 Table of Contents raise additional equity. As of December 31, 2009, we had 17,610,320 shares of common stock outstanding, excluding 15,492 shares issued but held by us as treasury stock. Except for the 3,347,373 shares held by Mariano Costamagna and his family members and affiliates, which are subject to the “volume,” “manner of sale” and other selling restrictions of Rule 144, all of these shares are currently freely tradable. As of December 31, 2009, up to 66,100 shares were issuable upon the exercise of options, all of which were vested and exercisable. Subject to applicable vesting and registration requirements, upon exercise of these options the underlying shares may be resold into the public market. In the case of outstanding options that have exercise prices less than the market price of our common stock from time to time, investors would experience dilution. We cannot predict if future sales of our common stock, or the availability of our common stock for sale, will harm the market price of our common stock or our ability to raise capital by offering equity securities. Class action litigation due to stock price volatility or other factors could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. From January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2009, our stock price has fluctuated from a low of $9.83 to a high of $52.53. During 2008, our stock price fluctuated from a low of $9.80 to a high of $61.24. In the past, securities class action litigation often has been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. Companies in the technology industries are particularly vulnerable to this kind of litigation due to the high volatility of their stock prices. Accordingly, we may in the future be the target of securities litigation. Any securities litigation could result in substantial costs and could divert the attention and resources of our management. Our actual operating results may differ significantly from our guidance. From time to time, we release guidance in our quarterly earnings releases, quarterly earnings conference calls or otherwise, regarding our future performance that represent our management’s estimates as of the date of release. This guidance, which includes forward-looking statements, is based on projections prepared by our management. These projections are not prepared with a view toward compliance with published guidelines of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and neither our registered public accountants nor any other independent expert or outside party compiles or examines the projections and, accordingly, no such person expresses any opinion or any other form of assurance with respect thereto. Projections are based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control and are based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which will change. The principal reason that we release guidance is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by any such persons. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions of the guidance furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, our guidance is only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results will vary from our guidance and the variations may be material. In light of the foregoing, investors are urged not to rely upon, or otherwise consider, our guidance in making an investment decision in respect of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 15 Table of Contents 