Risk Factors”, our Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. We may be unable, for many reasons, including those that are beyond our control, to implement our current business strategy. The following risks may result in material harm to our business, our financial condition and our results of operations. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline. Except as required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Risks Related to Our Business and Strategy If we fail to obtain the additional capital necessary to fund our operations, we will be unable either to successfully develop and commercialize our product candidates or to finance the discovery and development of our next generation of product candidates. Due to financial constraints, we recently discontinued development of Trizytek, our late-stage clinical candidate. We will require substantial future capital in order to complete the development and commercialization of our remaining clinical-stage product candidates, ALTU-238 and ALTU-237, and to conduct the research and development and clinical and regulatory activities necessary to bring our early stage research products and product candidates into clinical development. At this time, we have made a decision to allocate our financial, capital and human resources to ALTU-238, are evaluating the feasibility of moving forward our 27 Table of Contents early-stage clinical and pre-clinical programs and will make future decisions on these programs depending upon the availability of resources. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the results of our Phase II pediatric clinical trial for ALTU-238 that we plan to begin in March 2009 and the results and costs of future clinical trials for ALTU-238 that we may initiate; • any further non-clinical or clinical studies we may initiate based on the results of our Phase I clinical trial for ALTU-237 or discussions with regulatory authorities; • the actual expenses of discontinuing the Trizytek program, including any contractual termination payments we are required to make; • the timing, progress and results of ongoing manufacturing development work for ALTU-238; • the results of our preclinical studies and testing for our early stage research products and product candidates, and any decisions to initiate clinical trials; • the costs, timing and outcome of regulatory review of our product candidates in clinical development, and any of our preclinical product candidates that progress to clinical trials; • the cost of obtaining clinical and commercial supplies of active pharmaceutical ingredients, or APIs, and finished drug product in sufficient quantities for clinical development and any commercial launch; • the costs of establishing commercial operations, including commercial manufacturing and distribution arrangements and sales, marketing and medical affairs functions, should any of our product candidates be approved and we participate in the launch; • the costs of preparing, filing and prosecuting patent applications, maintaining and enforcing our issued patents, seeking freedom to operate under any third party intellectual property rights, and defending intellectual property-related claims; • our ability to establish and maintain collaborative or financing arrangements and obtain milestone, royalty and other payments from collaborators or third parties; • the costs associated with our realignment plan, including termination of contractual obligations and facility-related costs; and • the extent to which we acquire or invest in new businesses, products or technologies. Additional funds may not be available when we need them on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available to us on a timely basis, or we decide it is necessary to preserve existing resources, we may find it necessary or appropriate to: • stage, terminate or delay preclinical studies, clinical trials or other development activities for one or more of our product candidates; or • delay our establishment of sales, marketing, medical affairs and commercial operations capabilities or other activities that may be necessary to commercialize our product candidates. Our independent registered public accounting firm has included a going concern explanatory paragraph in its report for fiscal year ended December 31, 2008. This indicates that our recurring losses from operations and current lack of sufficient funds to sustain operations through the end of the following fiscal year raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the basis of a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. If we became unable to continue as a going concern, we would have to liquidate our assets and might receive significantly less than the values at which they are carried on our consolidated financial statements. Any shortfall in the proceeds from the liquidation of our assets would directly reduce the amounts, if any, that holders of our common stock could receive in liquidation. To remain a going concern, significant funding would be required. Our available funds will not be sufficient to fund the completion of the development and commercialization of any of our product candidates, 28 Table of Contents including ALTU-238. We currently expect that our existing capital resources will be sufficient to maintain our current and planned operations into the fourth quarter of 2009. In addition, our operating plan may change as a result of many factors, including factors currently unknown to us, and we may need additional funds sooner than the end of 2009 and may seek such funds prior to that time. We are funding all costs related to the development ALTU-238 and cannot defer or avoid such expenses unless we delay or curtail the program, or we enter into a new collaboration agreement or secure alternative funding to support the development of ALTU-238. The failure to obtain additional financing or enter into a new collaboration could lead to a delay in or discontinuation of further development of ALTU-238. The inclusion of a going concern explanatory paragraph in the audit report of our registered public accounting firm for fiscal 2008 may materially and adversely affect our ability to raise new capital. We are obligated under the terms of our redeemable preferred stock held by Vertex Pharmaceuticals Incorporated to make a significant payment upon the occurrence of a specified event. We may not have sufficient resources to make this payment when it becomes due. If Vertex Pharmaceuticals Incorporated, or Vertex, the holder of our redeemable preferred stock, elects to redeem those shares on or after December 31, 2010, we will be required to pay an aggregate of $7.2 million plus dividends accrued after that date. We may require additional funding to make this payment. Funds for this purpose may not be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. We may have contractual liabilities in connection with our discontinuation of the Trizytek program. We have significant contractual obligations that we entered into with third parties for the Trizytek program. In connection with our discontinuation of this program and our new License Agreement with CFFTI, CFFTI may assume certain, but not all, of these obligations. In the case where CFFTI does not assume these obligations, we will need to negotiate a termination of these obligations with the third parties, which may involve the payment of termination fees or costs. For example, we have the right to terminate our agreement with Lonza in the event that we cease development or commercialization of Trizytek due to toxicity, efficacy or other technical or business considerations, in which case we must make a payment to Lonza if we have not already purchased from Lonza a specified value of APIs, which payment could be substantial. We have a history of net losses, which we expect to continue for at least several years and, as a result, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when, if ever, we will achieve, or be able to maintain, profitability. We have incurred significant losses since 1999, when we were reorganized as a company independent from Vertex. At December 31, 2008, our accumulated deficit was $335.7 million, and we expect to continue to incur losses for at least the next several years. We have only been able to generate limited amounts of revenue from license and milestone payments under collaboration agreements, and payments for funded research and development, as well as revenue from products we no longer sell. Although our realignment of operations to focus on the development of ALTU-238 will result in a reduction in our annual research and development spending, we expect to continue to incur net operating losses for the next several years. We must generate significant revenue to achieve and maintain profitability. All of our product candidates are still in development. Even if we succeed in developing and commercializing one or more of our product candidates, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to achieve or maintain profitability. Our failure to become and remain profitable would depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital, expand our business, diversify our product offerings or continue our operations. Raising additional capital by issuing securities or through collaboration and licensing arrangements may cause dilution to existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish proprietary rights. We may seek the additional capital necessary to fund our operations through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, or collaboration and licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional 29 Table of Contents capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, existing stock ownership interests will be diluted, such dilution will in all likelihood be substantial, and the terms of such securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of our existing stockholders. In addition, many of the warrants that we have issued contain provisions that result in the reduction of the exercise price per share of such warrants to the extent we issue or are deemed to issue equity at a per share price less than the current exercise price of the warrants. At December 31, 2008, we had 3,095,606 such warrants outstanding, of which 1,962,494 warrants expired unexercised on February 1, 2009. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take actions such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. If we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable development and commercialization rights to our technologies or product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. In order to fund our operations in the future, we may need to comply with NASDAQ Marketplace Rules that require stockholder approval of certain financings, which may limit our ability to raise sufficient capital. The NASDAQ Marketplace Rules require us to obtain stockholder approval under certain circumstances if we issue outstanding equity securities that would comprise more than 20% of our total shares of common stock outstanding before the issuance of the securities. In order to fund our operations in the future, we may need to obtain stockholder approval in order to comply with these rules, and we may not be successful in obtaining any such stockholder approval. If we failed to obtain such an approval prior to a financing, our funding options would be limited, which would adversely affect our ability to successfully develop and commercialize our product candidates or to finance the discovery and development of our next generation of product candidates. Our competitors may develop products that are less expensive, safer or more effective, which may diminish or prevent the commercial success of any product candidate that we bring to market. Competition in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries is intense. We face competition from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as numerous academic and research institutions and governmental agencies engaged in drug discovery activities, both in the United States and abroad. Some of these competitors have greater financial resources than we do, greater experience in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing than we do, and have products or are pursuing the development of product candidates that target the same diseases and conditions that are the focus of our drug development programs, including those set forth below. • ALTU-238. If approved, ALTU-238, the product candidate we are developing as a once-weekly treatment for human growth hormone, or hGH, deficiency and related disorders, will compete with existing approved hGH therapies from companies such as BioPartners, Eli Lilly, Genentech, Merck Serono, Novo Nordisk, Pfizer, Sandoz, and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries. In addition, we understand that ALTU-238 may compete with product candidates in clinical development from some of these companies and others, including LG Life Sciences, which is developing a long-acting hGH therapy based on an encapsulated microparticle technology, and Ambrx Inc., which is also developing a long-acting hGH therapy in conjunction with Serono. • ALTU-237. If approved, ALTU-237, the product candidate we may further develop for the treatment of hyperoxalurias, depending on the availability of funding, may compete with product candidates in development at companies such as Amsterdam Molecular Therapeutics, Medix, NephroGenex, and OxThera. 30 Table of Contents We may not be successful in establishing and maintaining collaborations on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize our products. An element of our business strategy is to establish collaborative arrangements with third parties with regard to development, regulatory approval, sales, marketing and distribution of our products. We may collaborate with other companies to accelerate the development of some of our early-stage product candidates, to develop and commercialize or co-commercialize our more mature product candidates or to advance other business objectives. The process of establishing new collaborative relationships is difficult, time-consuming and involves significant uncertainty. We face, and will continue to face, significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators. Moreover, if we do establish collaborative relationships, our collaborators may fail to fulfill their responsibilities or seek to renegotiate or terminate their relationships with us due to unsatisfactory clinical results, a change in business strategy, a change of control or other reasons. In the event of a termination, we may incur termination payments or other expenses in connection with any reacquisition of rights. For example, in connection with the termination of our collaboration with Genentech for ALTU-238, we became solely responsible for all expenses in connection with the ALTU-238 program. If we are unable to establish and maintain collaborative relationships on acceptable terms, we may have to delay or discontinue further development of one or more of our product candidates, undertake development and commercialization activities at our own expense or find alternative sources of funding. If we enter into new collaborative agreements, our collaborators and we may not achieve our projected research and development goals in the time frames we announce and expect, which could have an adverse impact on our business and could cause our stock price to decline. If we enter into new collaborative agreements for our product candidates, we expect to set goals for and make public statements regarding the timing of activities, such as the commencement and completion of preclinical studies and clinical trials, anticipated regulatory approval dates and developments and milestones under those collaboration agreements. The actual timing of such events can vary dramatically due to a number of factors such as delays or failures in our or our collaborators’ preclinical studies or clinical trials, delays or failures in manufacturing process development activities or in manufacturing product candidates, the amount of time, effort and resources to be committed to our programs by our future collaborators, delays in filing for regulatory approval, and the uncertainties inherent in the regulatory approval process, including delays in obtaining regulatory approval. We cannot be certain that our or our collaborators’ preclinical studies and clinical trials will advance or be completed in the time frames we announce or expect, that our collaborators or we will make regulatory submissions or receive regulatory approvals as planned or that our collaborators or we will be able to adhere to our current schedule for the achievement of key milestones under any of our internal or collaborative programs. If our collaborators or we fail to achieve one or more of these milestones as planned, our business will be materially adversely affected and the price of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to Development of Our Product Candidates If we, or if we enter into future collaborative agreements, our collaborators, are unable to commercialize our lead product candidates, or experience significant delays in doing so, our business will be materially harmed. We have invested a significant portion of our time and financial resources to date in the development of oral and injectable crystallized protein therapies, including Trizytek (for which we have discontinued development), ALTU-238 and ALTU-237 (the development of which is on hold until sufficient additional funding can be secured), for the treatment of gastrointestinal and metabolic disorders. Our ability and the ability of a collaborative partner to develop and commercialize our current product candidates successfully, and therefore our ability to generate revenues, will depend on numerous factors, including: • successfully scaling up the manufacturing processes for our product candidates, successfully completing stability testing and release of our product candidates, and obtaining sufficient supplies of, our product candidates, in order to complete our clinical trials and toxicology studies on a timely basis; 31 Table of Contents • receiving marketing approvals from the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities; • arranging for commercial-scale supplies of our product candidates with contract manufacturers whose manufacturing facilities operate in compliance with current good manufacturing practice regulations, or cGMPs, including the need to scale up the manufacturing process for commercial scale supplies; • establishing sales, marketing and distribution capabilities on our own, through collaborative agreements or through third parties; • obtaining commercial acceptance of our product candidates, if approved, in the medical community and by third-party payors and government pricing authorities; and • establishing favorable pricing from foreign regulatory authorities. If we are not successful in commercializing ALTU-238 or are significantly delayed in doing so, our business will be materially harmed. Because our product candidates are in clinical development, there is a significant risk of failure. Of the large number of drugs in development, only a small percentage result in the submission of an NDA to the FDA, and even fewer are approved for commercialization. We will only receive regulatory approval to commercialize a product candidate if we can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA or the applicable foreign regulatory authority, in well-designed and controlled clinical trials, that the product candidate is safe and effective and otherwise meets the appropriate standards required for approval for a particular indication. Clinical trials are lengthy, complex and extremely expensive programs with uncertain results. A failure of one or more of our clinical trials may occur at any stage of testing. We have limited experience in conducting and managing the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approvals, including approval by the FDA. A number of events or factors, including any of the following, could delay the completion of our ongoing and planned clinical trials and negatively impact our ability to submit an NDA and obtain regulatory approval for, and to market and sell, a particular product candidate, including our clinical-stage product candidates: • conditions imposed by us or imposed on us by the FDA or any foreign regulatory authority regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials; • delays in obtaining, or our inability to obtain or maintain, required approvals from institutional review boards, or IRBs, or other reviewing entities at clinical sites selected for participation in our clinical trials; • negative or inconclusive results from clinical trials, or results that are inconsistent with earlier results, that necessitate additional clinical studies; • delays in the completion of manufacturing development work for our product candidates, and in collecting the necessary manufacturing information for submission of our marketing approval applications for our product candidates; • any dispute that arises under our current or future collaborative agreements or our agreements with third parties; • insufficient supply or deficient quality of our product candidates or other materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials; • difficulties enrolling subjects in our clinical trials, including, for example, finding pediatric subjects with hGH deficiency who have not previously received hGH therapy for our pediatric trials of ALTU-238; • serious or unexpected side effects experienced by subjects in clinical trials; or • failure of our third-party contractors or our investigators to comply with regulatory requirements or otherwise meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner. 32 Table of Contents Delays in or inconclusive results from our clinical trials may result in increased development costs for our product candidates and corresponding delays in the filing of an NDA for product candidates and the receipt of marketing approval for the product candidate or discontinuation of a program, which could cause our stock price to decline and could limit our ability to obtain additional financing. For example, our stock price declined significantly following the announcement of the results of our Phase III clinical trial for Trizytek. In addition, we were unable to secure a corporate partnership for Trizytek following the announcement of such results and consequently decided to discontinue the Trizytek program. In addition, if one or more of our product candidates are delayed, our competitors may be able to bring products to market before we do, and the commercial advantage, profitability or viability of our product candidates, including our clinical-stage product candidates, could be significantly reduced. We have not yet completed a full Phase III program for any of our product candidates in clinical development, other than for the Trizytek program, which was discontinued in January 2009, and we have not advanced, and may never advance, our product candidates that are currently in preclinical testing into clinical trials. Even if our trials are successful, we may still be required or may determine it is desirable to perform additional studies for approval or in order to achieve a broad indication for the labeling of the drug. For the ALTU-238 program, we have completed Phase I clinical trials in healthy adults and a Phase II clinical trial in adults with hGH deficiency and have commenced a Phase II clinical trial in children with hGH deficiency. The efficacy of ALTU-238 has not yet been tested in a human clinical trial, and ALTU-238 may prove not to be clinically effective as an extended-release formulation of hGH. In addition, it is possible that patients receiving ALTU-238 will suffer additional or more severe side effects than we observed in our earlier Phase I and Phase II clinical trials, which could delay or preclude regulatory approval of ALTU-238 or limit its commercial use. If we observe serious or other adverse events during the time our product candidates are in development or after our products are approved and on the market, we may be required to perform lengthy additional clinical trials, may be denied regulatory approval of such products, may be forced to change the labeling of such products or may be required to withdraw any such products from the market, any of which would hinder or preclude our ability to generate revenues. As our clinical trials progress or increase in size or the medical conditions of the population in which we are testing our products vary, the potential for serious or other adverse events related or unrelated to our product candidates could vary and possibly increase. If the incidence of these events increases in number or severity, if a regulatory authority believes that these events constitute an adverse effect caused by the drug, or if other effects are identified either during future clinical trials or after any of our drug candidates are approved and on the market: • we may be required to conduct additional preclinical or clinical trials, make changes in clinical trial brochures or, if a product is approved, make changes to the labeling of any such products, reformulate any such products, or implement changes to or obtain new approvals of our or our contractors’ or collaborators’ manufacturing facilities or processes; • regulatory authorities may be unwilling to approve our product candidates or may withdraw approval of our products; • we may experience a significant drop in the sales of the affected products; • our reputation in the marketplace may suffer; and • we may become the target of lawsuits, including class action suits. Any of these events could prevent approval or harm sales of the affected products or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing any such products. 33 Table of Contents We may fail to select or capitalize on the most scientifically, clinically or commercially promising or profitable indications or therapeutic areas for our product candidates. We have limited technical, managerial and financial resources to determine the indications on which we should focus the development efforts related to our product candidates. We may make incorrect determinations. Our decisions to allocate our research, management and financial resources toward particular indications or therapeutic areas for our product candidates may not lead to the development of viable commercial products and may divert resources from better opportunities. Similarly, our decisions to delay or terminate drug development programs may also be incorrect and could cause us to miss valuable opportunities. For example, we have made a decision to allocate substantially all of our existing financial, capital and human resources to ALTU-238, and are evaluating the feasibility of moving forward our early-stage clinical and pre-clinical programs and will make future decisions on these programs depending upon the availability of resources. If we invest in the advancement of a candidate that proves not to be viable, we will have fewer resources available for potentially more promising candidates. Risks Related to Regulatory Approval of Our Product Candidates and Other Government Regulations If we or our future collaborators do not obtain required regulatory approvals, we will be unable to commercialize our product candidates, and our ability to generate revenue will be materially impaired. ALTU-238, ALTU-237 and any other product candidates we may discover or acquire and seek to commercialize, either alone or in conjunction with a collaborator, are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory authorities in the United States and other countries relating to the testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, recordkeeping, labeling, packaging, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of drugs. In the United States and in many foreign jurisdictions, we must successfully complete rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory review process before a new drug can be sold. We have not obtained regulatory approval for any product. Satisfaction of these and other regulatory requirements is costly, time consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. The time required to obtain approval by the FDA is unpredictable but typically takes many years following the commencement of clinical trials, depending upon numerous factors, including the complexity of the product candidate and the disease to be treated. Our product candidates may fail to receive regulatory approval for many reasons, including: • a failure to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities that a product candidate is safe and effective for a particular indication; • the results of clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for approval; • an inability to demonstrate that a product candidate’s benefits outweigh its risks; • an inability to demonstrate that the product candidate presents an advantage over existing therapies; • the FDA’s or comparable foreign regulatory authorities’ disagreement with the manner in which our collaborators or we interpret the data from preclinical studies or clinical trials; • the FDA’s or comparable foreign regulatory authorities’ failure to approve the manufacturing processes or facilities of third-party contract manufacturers of clinical and commercial supplies; and • a change in the approval policies or regulations of, or the specific advice provided to us by, the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities or a change in the laws governing the approval process. The FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities might decide that the data are insufficient for approval and require additional clinical trials or other studies. Furthermore, even if we do receive regulatory approval to market a commercial product, any such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which our collaborative partner or we may market the product or may be subject to post-approval commitments to conduct Phase IV studies, patient monitoring or other risk management measures that could 34 Table of Contents require significant financial resources. It is possible that none of our existing or future product candidates will ever obtain the appropriate regulatory approvals necessary for us or our collaborators to begin selling them. Failure to obtain regulatory approvals or to comply with regulatory requirements in foreign jurisdictions would prevent us or any collaborator from marketing our products internationally. We intend to have our product candidates marketed outside the United States. In order to market products in the European Union and many other non-United States jurisdictions, our collaborators or we must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. We have no experience in obtaining foreign regulatory approvals for our product candidates. The approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional and costly preclinical and clinical testing and data review. The time required to obtain approval in other countries may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or by the FDA. We also face challenges arising from the different regulatory requirements imposed by United States and foreign regulators with respect to clinical trials. The EMEA often imposes different requirements than the FDA with respect to the design of a pivotal Phase III clinical trial. Our future collaborators or we may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market. The failure to obtain these approvals could harm our business and result in decreased revenues from the sale of products or from milestones or royalties associated with any collaboration agreements we may enter into in the future. Our product candidates will remain subject to ongoing regulatory requirements even if they receive marketing approval, and if we fail to comply with these requirements, we could lose these approvals, and the sales of any approved commercial products could be suspended. Even if we receive regulatory approval to market a particular product candidate, the product will remain subject to extensive regulatory requirements, including requirements relating to manufacturing, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion, distribution and record keeping. In addition, the approval may be subject to limitations on the uses for which the product may be marketed or to the conditions of approval, or contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product, which could reduce our revenues, increase our expenses and render the approved product candidate not commercially viable. In addition, as clinical experience with a drug increases after approval because it is typically used by a larger and more diverse group of patients after approval than during clinical trials, side effects and other problems may be observed after approval that were not seen or anticipated during pre-approval clinical trials or other studies. Any adverse effects observed after the approval and marketing of a product candidate could result in limitations on the use of or withdrawal of any approved products from the marketplace. Absence of long-term safety data may also limit the approved uses of our products, if any. If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA and other applicable United States and foreign regulatory authorities, or previously unknown problems with any approved commercial products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes are discovered, we could be subject to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions or other setbacks, including: • restrictions on the products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes; • warning letters; • civil or criminal penalties; • fines; • injunctions; • product seizures or detentions; • import or export bans or restrictions; 35 Table of Contents • voluntary or mandatory product recalls and related publicity requirements; • suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; • total or partial suspension of production; and • refusal to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new products or supplements to approved applications. If we are slow to adapt, or are unable to adapt, to changes in existing regulatory requirements or adoption of new regulatory requirements or policies, we may lose marketing approval for our products when and if any of them are approved, resulting in decreased revenue from milestones, product sales or royalties. Moreover, even when a manufacturer has fully complied with applicable regulatory standards, products manufactured and distributed may ultimately fail to comply with applicable specifications, leading to product withdrawals or recalls. We deal with hazardous materials and must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business. Our activities and those of our third-party manufacturers on our behalf involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials, including microbial agents, corrosive, explosive and flammable chemicals and other hazardous compounds. Our manufacturers and we are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials. Although we believe that the safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by these laws and regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident, state or federal authorities may curtail our use of these materials and interrupt our business operations. In addition, we could be liable for any resulting civil damages which may exceed our financial resources and may seriously harm our business. While we believe that the amount of insurance we currently carry, providing coverage of $1.0 million, should be sufficient for typical risks regarding our handling of these materials, it may not be sufficient to cover pollution conditions or other extraordinary or unanticipated events. Furthermore, an accident could damage, or force us to shut down, our operations. In addition, if we develop manufacturing capability, we may incur substantial costs to comply with environmental regulations and would be subject to the risk of accidental contamination or injury from the use of hazardous materials in our manufacturing process. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties We have no manufacturing capacity, and we have relied and expect to continue to rely on third-party manufacturers to produce our product candidates. We do not own or operate manufacturing facilities for the production of clinical or commercial quantities of our product candidates or any of the compounds that we are testing in our preclinical programs, and we lack the internal resources and the capabilities to do so. As a result, we currently rely, and we expect to rely in the future, on third-party manufacturers to supply the APIs for our product candidates and to produce and package final drug products, if and when they are approved for marketing. Reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured product candidates or products ourselves, including: • reliance on the third party for manufacturing process development, sourcing of key raw materials and specialized manufacturing equipment, regulatory compliance and quality assurance; • limitations on supply availability resulting from capacity and scheduling constraints of the third party; • the possible breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third party because of factors beyond our control; and 36 Table of Contents • the possible termination or non-renewal of the agreement by the third party, based on its own business priorities, at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us. Our current and anticipated future dependence upon others for the manufacture of our product candidates may adversely affect our future profit margins and our ability to develop our product candidates and commercialize any products that receive regulatory approval on a timely basis. We currently rely on a limited number of manufacturers for the clinical and commercial supply of each of our product candidates, which could delay or prevent the clinical development and commercialization of our product candidates. We currently depend on single source suppliers for ALTU-238. Any disruption in production, inability of a supplier to produce adequate quantities of clinical and other material to meet our needs or other impediments could adversely affect our ability to successfully complete the clinical trials and other studies of our product candidates, delay submissions of our regulatory applications or adversely affect our ability to commercialize our product candidates in a timely manner, or at all. We have purchased the hGH, the API in ALTU-238, for our prior and ongoing clinical trials from Sandoz GmbH, or Sandoz. We have also produced ALTU-238 for these trials and believe that the current scale of manufacturing is sufficient to support the planned Phase III program for ALTU-238 in both adult and pediatric growth hormone deficient patients. In July 2008, Sandoz and we entered into a long term supply agreement, which has an initial term expiring in 2012, with an optional two year extension period. Because we do not have another long term supplier of hGH in place, any disruption in Sandoz’ ability to supply us with hGH as needed would adversely affect the ALTU-238 program. We have an agreement with Althea for Althea to use the hGH supplied to it to produce the clinical supplies for our planned clinical trials of ALTU-238. Any delay in the production, testing and release of ALTU-238 could delay our planned clinical trials and result in additional unforeseen expenses. Our agreement with Althea covers only the manufacture of ALTU-238 for the planned clinical trials of ALTU-238. We will need to negotiate an additional agreement under which Althea would provide the commercial supply of ALTU-238 or find an alternative commercial manufacturer. Switching manufacturers would require cooperation with Althea, technology transfers, training, and validation of the alternative manufacturer’s processes, and, under some circumstances, will require us to make a specified payment to Althea. Changes in manufacturing processes or procedures, including a change in the location where the drug is manufactured or a change of a third-party manufacturer, may require prior review and approval from the FDA and satisfaction of comparable foreign requirements. This review may be costly and time-consuming and could delay or prevent the launch of a product. If we are unable to secure another contract manufacturer for ALTU-238 at an acceptable cost, the commercialization of ALTU-238 could be delayed, prevented or impaired, and the costs related to ALTU-238 may increase. Any dispute over the terms of, or decisions regarding, our collaboration with Althea or other adverse developments in our relationship would materially harm our business and might accelerate our need for additional capital. Our contract manufacturers may encounter difficulties or unforeseen expenses in connection with the commercial scale-up of manufacturing activities for our product candidates We do not have any agreements in place to manufacture our product candidates, other than the API for ALTU-238, on a commercial scale. In order to commercialize ALTU-238, we, in conjunction with Althea, will need to scale up the manufacturing of ALTU-238 drug product. We may be required to fund capital improvements to support scale-up of manufacturing and related activities. Althea may not be able to increase its manufacturing capacity and we may need to find an alternative supplier. In addition, Sandoz may discontinue its manufacturing of hGH, in which case we would need to find an alternative source. It may be difficult for us to enter into additional supply arrangements on a timely basis or on acceptable terms, which could delay or prevent our ability to commercialize ALTU-238. 37 Table of Contents Any performance failure on the part of a contract manufacturer could delay clinical development or regulatory approval of our product candidates or commercialization of any approved products. The failure of a contract manufacturer to achieve and maintain high manufacturing standards could result in patient injury or death, product liability claims, product recalls, product seizures or withdrawals, delays or failures in testing or delivery, cost overruns, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approvals, delays, suspensions or withdrawals of approvals, injunctions, fines, civil or criminal penalties, or other problems that could seriously harm our business. Contract manufacturers may encounter difficulties involving production yields, quality control and quality assurance. These manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies which audit strict compliance with cGMP and other applicable government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. However, we or a future collaborator may have limited control over third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. Present or future manufacturers might not be able to comply with cGMP and other FDA or international regulatory requirements. We rely on third parties to conduct, supervise and monitor our clinical trials, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet established deadlines for the completion of such trials. We rely on third parties such as contract research organizations, medical institutions and clinical investigators to enroll qualified patients and conduct, supervise and monitor our clinical trials. Our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities. Our reliance on these third parties, however, does not relieve us of our regulatory responsibilities, including ensuring that our clinical trials are conducted in accordance with good clinical practice regulations and the investigational plan and protocols contained in the IND. Furthermore, these third parties may also have relationships with other entities, some of which may be our competitors. In addition, they may not complete activities on schedule, or may not conduct our preclinical studies or clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our trial design. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals for, and commercialize, our product candidates may be delayed or prevented. Because we may enter into in the future sales or collaboration transactions, we may be dependent upon our collaborators, and we may be unable to prevent them from taking actions that may be harmful to our business or inconsistent with our business strategy. Any future licensing and collaboration agreements that we may enter into with respect to our product development candidates may reduce or eliminate the control we have over the development and commercialization of our product candidates. Our future collaborators may decide to terminate a development program under circumstances where we might have continued such a program, or may be unable or unwilling to pursue ongoing development and commercialization activities as quickly as we would prefer. A collaborator may follow a different strategy for product development and commercialization that could delay or alter development and commercial timelines and likelihood of success. A collaborator may also be unwilling or unable to fulfill its obligations to us, including its development and commercialization responsibilities. Any future collaborators will likely have significant discretion in determining the efforts and level of resources that they dedicate to the development and commercialization of our product candidates. In addition, although we seek to structure our agreements with potential collaborators to prevent the collaborator from developing and commercializing a competitive product, we are not always able to negotiate such terms and the possibility exists that our collaborators may develop and commercialize, either alone, or with others or through an in-license or acquisition, products that are similar to or competitive with the products that are the subject of the collaboration with us. If any collaborator terminates its collaboration with us or fails to perform or satisfy its obligations to us, the development, regulatory approval or commercialization of our product candidate would be delayed or may not occur and our business and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Likewise, if we fail to fulfill our obligations under a collaboration and license agreement, our collaborator 38 Table of Contents may be entitled to damages, to terminate the agreement, or terminate or reduce its financial payment obligations to us under our collaborative agreement. Our collaborations with outside scientists and consultants may be subject to restriction and change. We work with chemists, biologists and other scientists at academic and other institutions, and consultants who assist us in our research, development, regulatory and commercial efforts. These scientists and consultants have provided, and we expect that they will continue to provide, valuable advice on our programs. These scientists and consultants are not our employees, may have other commitments that would limit their future availability to us and typically will not enter into non-compete agreements with us. If a conflict of interest arises between their work for us and their work for another entity, we may lose their services. In addition, we will be unable to prevent them from establishing competing businesses or developing competing products. For example, if a key principal investigator identifies a potential product or compound that is more scientifically interesting to his or her professional interests, his or her availability could be restricted or eliminated. Risks Related to Commercialization of Our Product Candidates If physicians and patients do not accept our future products, we may be unable to generate significant revenue, if any. Even if we or a future collaborator receives regulatory approval for our product candidates, these product candidates may not gain market acceptance among physicians, healthcare payors, government pricing agencies, patients or the medical community. Physicians may elect not to recommend or patients may elect not to use these products for a variety of reasons, including: • prevalence and severity of adverse side effects; • ineffective marketing and distribution support; • timing of market introduction of competitive products; • lack of availability of, or inadequate reimbursement from managed care plans and other third-party or government payors; • lower demonstrated clinical safety and efficacy compared to other products; • other potential advantages of alternative treatment methods; and • lack of cost-effectiveness or less competitive pricing. If our approved drugs fail to achieve market acceptance, we will not be able to generate significant revenue, if any. If the government and third-party payors fail to provide coverage and adequate payment rates for our future products, if any, our revenue and prospects for profitability will be harmed. In both domestic and foreign markets, our sales of any future products will depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors. Such third-party payors include government health programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. These third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by demanding price discounts or rebates and limiting both coverage on which drugs they will pay for and the amounts that they will pay for new drugs. As a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our drugs. In the United States there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement governmental pricing reimbursement controls. The Medicare Prescription Drug and Modernization Act of 2003 imposed new requirements for the distribution and pricing of prescription drugs that may affect the marketing of our products, if we obtain FDA approval for those products. Under this law, Medicare was extended to cover a wide range of prescription drugs other than those directly administered by physicians in a hospital or medical office. Competitive regional private drug plans were authorized to 39 Table of Contents establish lists of approved drugs, or formularies, and to negotiate rebates and other price control arrangements with drug companies. Proposals to allow the government to negotiate Medicare drug prices with drug companies directly, if enacted, might further constrain drug prices, leading to reduced revenues and profitability. While we cannot predict whether any future legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted, the adoption of such proposals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and profitability. Foreign governments tend to impose strict price controls on pharmaceutical products, which may adversely affect our revenues, if any. In some foreign countries, particularly the countries of the European Union, Canada and Japan, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our product candidate to other available therapies. In some countries, the pricing is limited by the pricing of existing or comparable therapies. If reimbursement of our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our ability to enter into collaborative development and commercialization agreements and our revenues from these agreements could be adversely affected. There is a substantial risk of product liability claims in our business. If we are unable to obtain sufficient insurance, a product liability claim against us could adversely affect our business. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of our product candidates in human clinical trials and will face even greater risks upon any commercialization by us of our product candidates. We have product liability insurance covering our clinical trials in the amount of $10 million, which we believe is adequate to cover any current product liability exposure we may have. However, liabilities may exceed the extent of our coverage, resulting in material losses. Clinical trial and product liability insurance is becoming increasingly expensive. As a result, we may be unable to obtain sufficient insurance or increase our existing coverage at a reasonable cost to protect us against losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business. An individual may bring a product liability claim against us if one of our products or product candidates causes, or is claimed to have caused, an injury or is found to be unsuitable for consumer use. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in: • liabilities that substantially exceed our product liability insurance, which we would then be required to pay from other sources, if available; • an increase of our product liability insurance rates or the inability to maintain insurance coverage in the future on acceptable terms, or at all; • withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers or patients; • damage to our reputation and the reputation of our products, resulting in lower sales; • regulatory investigations that could require costly recalls or product modifications; • litigation costs; and • the diversion of management’s attention from managing our business. 40 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If the combination of patents, trade secrets and contractual provisions that we rely on to protect our intellectual property is inadequate to provide us with market exclusivity, our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates will be harmed and we may not be able to operate our business profitably. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain, maintain and enforce our intellectual property rights both domestically and abroad. The patent position of biotechnology companies is generally highly uncertain, involves complex legal and factual questions and has in recent years been the subject of much litigation. The validity, enforceability and commercial value of our rights, therefore, are highly uncertain. Our patents may not protect us against our competitors. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its scope, validity or enforceability. The scope, validity or enforceability of our patents can be challenged in litigation. Such litigation is often complex, can involve substantial costs and distraction and the outcome of patent litigation is often uncertain. If the outcome is adverse to us, third parties may be able to use our patented inventions and compete directly with us, without payment to us. Third parties may also be able to circumvent our patents by design innovations. We may not receive any additional patents based on the applications that we have filed and are currently pending. Because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing or, in some cases, not at all, and because publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, neither we nor our licensors or collaborators can be certain that they or we were the first to make the inventions claimed in patents or pending patent applications, or that they or we were the first to file for protection of the inventions set forth in these patent applications. Assuming the other requirements for patentability are met, in the United States, the first to make the claimed invention is entitled to the patent, and outside the United States, the first to file is entitled to the patent. Many of the proteins that are the APIs in our product candidates are off-patent. Therefore, we have obtained and are seeking to obtain patents directed to novel compositions of matter, formulations, methods of manufacturing and methods of treatment to protect some of our products. Such patents may not, however, prevent our competitors from developing products using the same APIs but different manufacturing methods or formulation technologies that are not covered by our patents. If third parties successfully assert that we have infringed their patents and proprietary rights or challenge the validity of our patents and proprietary rights, we may become involved in intellectual property disputes and litigation that would be costly, time consuming, and could delay or prevent the development or commercialization of our product candidates. Our ability to commercialize our product candidates depends on our ability to develop, manufacture, market and sell our product candidates without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Third parties may allege our product candidates infringe their intellectual property rights. Numerous United States and foreign patents and pending patent applications that are owned by third parties exist in fields that relate to our product candidates and our underlying technology, including patents and patent applications claiming compositions of matter of, methods of manufacturing, and methods of treatment using, specific proteins, combinations of proteins, and protein crystals. For example, we are aware of some issued United States and/or foreign patents that may be relevant to the development and commercialization of our product candidates. However, we believe that, if these patents were asserted against us, it is likely that we would not be found to infringe any valid claim of the patents relevant to our development and commercialization of these products. If any of these patents were asserted against us and determined to be valid and construed to cover any of our product candidates, including, without limitation, ALTU-238 and ALTU-237, our development and commercialization of these products could be materially adversely affected. Although we believe it is unlikely that we would be found to infringe any valid claim of these patents, we may not succeed in any action in which the patents are asserted against us. In order to successfully challenge the validity of any United States patent, we would need to overcome a presumption of validity. This 41 Table of Contents burden is a high one requiring clear and convincing evidence. If any of these patents were found to be valid and we were found to infringe any of them, or any other patent rights of third parties, we would be required to pay damages, stop the infringing activity or obtain licenses in order to use, manufacture or sell our product candidates. Any required license might not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we succeeded in obtaining these licenses, payments under these licenses would reduce any earnings from our products. In addition, some licenses might be non-exclusive and, accordingly, our competitors might gain access to the same technology as that which was licensed to us. If we failed to obtain a required license or were unable to alter the design of our product candidates to make the licenses unnecessary, we might be unable to commercialize one or more of our product candidates, which could significantly affect our ability to establish and grow our commercial business. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, defend our activities against claims of infringement of third-party patents, or to satisfy contractual obligations to licensees of our own intellectual property, we might be required to initiate patent litigation against third parties, such as infringement suits or nullity, opposition or interference proceedings. Our collaborators or we may enforce our patent rights under the terms of our major collaboration and license agreements, but neither we nor our collaborators is required to do so. In addition, others may sue us for infringing their patent rights or file nullity, opposition or interference proceedings against our patents, even if such claims are without merit. Intellectual property litigation is relatively common in our industry and can be costly. Even if we prevail, the cost of such litigation could deplete our financial resources. Litigation is also time consuming and could divert management’s attention and resources away from our business. Furthermore, during the course of litigation, confidential information may be disclosed in the form of documents or testimony in connection with discovery requests, depositions or trial testimony. Disclosure of our confidential information and our involvement in intellectual property litigation could materially adversely affect our business. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could significantly limit our ability to continue our operations. Many of our employees were previously employed at universities or other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. While we try to ensure that our employees do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that we or these employees have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed intellectual property, trade secrets or other proprietary information of any such employee’s former employer. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims and, even if we are successful in defending ourselves, could result in substantial costs or be distracting to management. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. If we are unable to protect our trade secrets, we may be unable to protect our interests in proprietary technology, processes and know-how that is not patentable or for which we have elected not to seek patent protection. In addition to patented technology, we rely upon unpatented proprietary technology, processes and know-how, including particularly our manufacturing know-how relating to the production of the crystallized proteins used in the formulation of our product candidates. In an effort to protect our unpatented proprietary technology, processes and know-how, we require our employees, consultants, collaborators, contract manufacturers and advisors to execute confidentiality agreements. These agreements, however, may not provide us with adequate protection against improper use or disclosure of confidential information, in particular as we are required to make such information available to a larger pool of people as we seek to increase production of our product candidates and their component proteins. These agreements may be breached, and we may not become aware of, or have adequate remedies in the event of, any such breach. In addition, in some situations, these agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants, collaborators, contract manufacturers or advisors have previous employment or consulting relationships. Also, others may independently develop substantially equivalent technology, processes and know-how or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our 42 Table of Contents proprietary technology, processes and know-how, competitors may be able to use this information to develop products that compete with our products, which could adversely impact our business. If we fail to comply with our obligations in the agreements under which we licensed development, commercialization or other technology rights to products or technology from third parties, we could lose license rights that are important to our business or incur financial obligations based on our exercise of such license rights. Some of our license agreements provide for licenses to us of technology that is important to our business, and we may enter into additional agreements in the future that provide licenses to us of valuable technology. These licenses impose, and future licenses may impose, various commercialization, milestone and other obligations on us. If we fail to comply with these obligations, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license even where we are able to achieve a milestone or cure a default after a date specified in an agreement, in which event we would lose valuable rights and our ability to develop our product candidates. Risks Related to Our Employees and Growth Our future success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate key executives and personnel and to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. We are a small company with 145 employees as of December 31, 2008. In 2009, we underwent a strategic realignment, which resulted in an approximate 75% headcount reduction. Our success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management, development and scientific personnel, which may be made more difficult as a result of the realignment. In particular, we are highly dependant on our new President and Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Georges Gemayel, and the other principal members of our executive, development and scientific teams. All of the arrangements we have with the key members of our executive, development and scientific teams may be terminated by us or the employee at any time without notice. Although we do not have any reason to believe that we may lose the services of any of these persons in the foreseeable future, the loss of the services of any of these persons might impede the achievement of our research, development and commercialization objectives. Recruiting and retaining qualified development and scientific personnel and sales and marketing personnel will also be critical to our success. We may not be able to attract and retain these personnel on acceptable terms given the competition among numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for similar personnel. We also experience competition for the hiring of development and scientific personnel from universities and research institutions. We do not maintain “key person” insurance on any of our employees. As we evolve from a company primarily involved in drug research and development into one that may become involved in the commercialization of drug products, we may have difficulty managing our growth, which could disrupt our operations. As we advance our drug candidates through the development process, we will need to expand our development, regulatory, manufacturing, sales and marketing capabilities or contract with other organizations to provide these capabilities for us. As our operations expand, we expect that we will need to manage additional relationships with various contract manufacturers, collaborative partners, suppliers and other organizations. Our ability to manage our operations and growth requires us to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. Such growth could place a strain on our management, administrative and operational infrastructure. We may not be able to make improvements to our management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. In addition, the physical expansion of our operations may lead to significant costs and may divert our management and business development resources. Any inability to manage growth could delay the execution of our business plans or disrupt our operations. 43 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock and Public Company Compliance Requirements Our stock price has been and is likely to continue to be volatile. Investors should consider an investment in our common stock as risky and subject to significant loss and wide fluctuations in market value. Our common stock has only been publicly traded since January 26, 2006, and accordingly there is a limited history on which to gauge the volatility of our stock price. Our stock price has, however, been volatile since we began to be publicly traded. For example, our stock price declined approximately 50% following our announcement that our collaboration with Genentech had been terminated in December 2007. Our stock price also declined sharply following our announcement of the top line data of our Phase III efficacy trial of Trizytek in August 2008 and in connection with the announcement of our strategic realignment in January 2009. The stock market as a whole has experienced significant volatility, particularly with respect to pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other life sciences company stocks. The volatility of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other life sciences company stocks may not relate to the operating performance of the companies represented by the stock. In addition, we may not continue to qualify for continued listing on The NASDAQ Global Market. To maintain listing, we are required, among other things, to maintain a daily closing bid price of $1.00 and a minimum market value of publicly held shares of $5.0 million. NASDAQ has suspended enforcement of its rules requiring a minimum $1.00 closing bid price and a minimum market value of publicly held shares of $5.0 million through April 20, 2009. The market price of our common stock has been between $0.16 and $19.79 per share from January 1, 2007 until March 6, 2009. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to continue to fluctuate include: • delays in or results from our clinical trials or studies; • our entry into or the loss of a significant collaboration or the expansion or contraction of a significant collaboration, disputes with a collaborator, or delays in the progress of a collaborative development program; • competitive product information such as results of clinical trials conducted by others on drugs that would compete with our product candidates or the regulatory filing or approval of such competitive products; • delays or other problems with manufacturing our product candidates or approved products; • failure or delays in advancing product candidates from our preclinical programs, or other product candidates we may discover or acquire in the future, into clinical trials; • failure or discontinuation of any of our research programs; • regulatory review delays, changes in regulatory requirements, new regulatory developments or enforcement policies in the United States and foreign countries; • developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; • introduction of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; • changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any, who cover our common stock; • failure to meet estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any, who cover our common stock; • positive or negative publicity regarding our product candidates or any approved products; • litigation or threatened litigation; • sales, future sales or anticipated sales of our common stock by us or our stockholders; • changes in the structure of health care payment systems; • failure of any of our product candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success; 44 Table of Contents • economic and other external factors or other disasters or crises; • period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results; and • general market conditions. These and other external factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. In addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit regardless of the validity of the claims or the ultimate outcome. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management and create additional volatility in our common stock price. One of our stockholders has substantial influence over us which could delay or prevent a change in corporate control or result in the entrenchment of management and the board of directors. Entities affiliated with Warburg Pincus Private Equity VIII, L.P., or Warburg Pincus, one of our principal stockholders, are entitled to designate up to two individuals as candidates to our board of directors, for so long as Warburg Pincus owns at least 2,691,935 shares of our common stock, or one individual for so long as Warburg Pincus owns at least 1,794,623 shares of our common stock. We have agreed to nominate and use our reasonable efforts to cause the election of such candidates. Stewart Hen and Jonathan S. Leff were the members of our board of directors designated by Warburg Pincus, but each of these individuals resigned as Directors effective December 31, 2008, and Warburg Pincus has not designated any candidates to replace them. A significant portion of our total outstanding shares may be sold into the market in the near future. This could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. We had 31,131,056 shares of common stock outstanding as of March 6, 2009. Holders of up to approximately 7.8 million shares of our common stock, assuming the exercise of warrants to purchase shares of our common stock, have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. We have registered all shares of common stock issuable under our equity compensation plans and they can now be freely sold in the public market upon issuance. A decline in the price of shares of our common stock might impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities, and may cause our stockholders to lose part or all of their investments in our shares of common stock. Provisions of our charter, bylaws, and Delaware law may make an acquisition of us or a change in our management more difficult. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. Stockholders who wish to participate in these transactions may not have the opportunity to do so. Furthermore, these provisions could prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions: • allow the authorized number of directors to be changed only by resolution of our board of directors; • establish a classified board of directors, such that not all members of the board are elected at one time; 45 Table of Contents • authorize our board of directors to issue without stockholder approval blank check preferred stock that, if issued, could operate as a “poison pill” to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer to prevent an acquisition that is not approved by our board of directors; • require that stockholder actions must be effected at a duly called stockholder meeting and prohibit stockholder action by written consent; • establish advance notice requirements for stockholder nominations to our board of directors or for stockholder proposals that can be acted on at stockholder meetings; • limit who may call stockholder meetings; and • require the approval of the holders of 80% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote in order to amend certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may, unless certain criteria are met, prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us for a prescribed period of time. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 