ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider carefully the following information about the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report and in our other public filings before making any investment decisions regarding our stock. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected. In these circumstances, the market price of our common stock would likely decline, and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our common stock. This report contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) that are based on management’s current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the Company and its business. In addition, other written or oral statements which constitute forward-looking statements may be made from time to time by or on behalf of Molecular Insight Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Any statement in this report that is not a statement of historical fact is a forward-looking statement, and in some cases, words such as “believe,” “estimate,” “project,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “anticipate,” “plans,” “seeks,” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from the anticipated outcomes or result. These statements are not guarantees of future performance, and undue reliance should not be placed on these statements. Molecular Insight Pharmaceuticals, Inc. undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in our forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: Risks Related to Our Product Candidates and Operations We are largely dependent on the success of our lead product candidates, Azedra, Onalta and Zemiva, and we may not be able to successfully commercialize these potential products. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs relating to the development and marketing of our lead product candidates, Azedra, Onalta and Zemiva. We have not obtained approval to market these potential products in any jurisdiction and we may never be able to obtain approval or, if approvals are obtained, to commercialize these products successfully. If we fail to successfully commercialize these products, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenue to sustain and grow our business, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. We have recently begun to direct significant efforts toward the expansion of our scientific staff and research capabilities to identify and develop product candidates in addition to Azedra, Onalta and Zemiva. We do not know whether our planned preclinical development or clinical trials for these other product candidates will begin on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. In addition, we do not know whether any of our clinical trials will result in marketable products. We do not anticipate that any additional product candidates will reach the market for at least several years, if at all. If we fail to obtain U.S. regulatory approval of Azedra, Onalta or Zemiva, or any of our other current or future product candidates, we will be unable to commercialize these potential products in the United States. The development, testing, manufacturing and marketing of our product candidates are subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the United States. In particular, the process of obtaining FDA approval is costly and time consuming, and the time required for such approval is uncertain. Our product candidates must undergo rigorous preclinical and clinical testing and an extensive regulatory approval process mandated by the FDA. Such regulatory review includes the determination of manufacturing capability and product performance. Generally, only a small percentage of pharmaceutical products are ultimately approved for commercial sale. 16 Table of Contents We can give no assurance that our current or future product candidates will be approved by the FDA or any other governmental body. In addition, there can be no assurance that all necessary approvals will be granted for future product candidates or that FDA review or actions will not involve delays caused by requests for additional information or testing that could adversely affect the time to market for and sale of our product candidates. Further failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can, among other things, result in the suspension of regulatory approval as well as possible civil and criminal sanctions. Failure to enroll patients in our clinical trials may cause delays in developing Azedra, Onalta or Zemiva or any of our other current or future product candidates. We may encounter delays in the development and commercialization, or fail to obtain marketing approval, of Azedra, Onalta or Zemiva or any other future product candidate if we are unable to enroll enough patients to complete clinical trials. Our ability to enroll sufficient numbers of patients in our clinical trials depends on many factors, including the severity of illness of the population, the size of the patient population, the nature of the clinical protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the trial and competing clinical trials. Delays in planned patient enrollment may result in increased costs and harm our ability to complete our clinical trials and obtain regulatory approval. Delays in clinical testing could result in increased costs to us and delay our ability to generate revenue. Significant delays in clinical testing could materially impact our product development costs. We do not know whether planned clinical trials will begin on time, will need to be restructured or will be completed on schedule, if at all. Clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in obtaining regulatory approval to commence and continue a study, delays in reaching agreement on acceptable clinical study terms with prospective sites, delays in obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a study at a prospective site, and delays in recruiting patients to participate in a study. In addition, we typically rely on third-party clinical investigators to conduct our clinical trials and other third-party organizations to oversee the operations of these clinical trials and to perform data collection and analysis. As a result, we may face additional delays outside of our control if these parties do not perform their obligations in a timely fashion. Significant delays in testing or regulatory approvals for any of our current or future product candidates, including Azedra, Onalta and Zemiva, could prevent or cause delays in the commercialization of such product candidates, reduce potential revenues from the sale of such product candidates and cause our costs to increase. Our clinical trials for any of our current or future product candidates may produce negative or inconclusive results and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical and/or preclinical testing for these product candidates or cease our trials. We will only receive regulatory approval to commercialize a product candidate if we can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA, or the applicable foreign regulatory agency, that the product candidate is safe and effective. In April 2005, we completed a Phase 2b clinical trial for Zemiva and are currently planning a pivotal Phase 2 clinical trial for Zemiva. In addition, we commenced a Phase 1 clinical trial for Azedra in 2006, which is ongoing. Although Novartis has conducted clinical trials for Onalta, we have not. We intend to start discussions with the FDA regarding the clinical investigation plan, which may include a radiation dosimetry component in addition to safety and efficacy studies. We do not know whether our existing or future clinical trials will demonstrate safety and efficacy sufficiently to result in marketable products. Because our clinical trials for Azedra, Onalta and Zemiva and our other product candidates may produce negative or inconclusive results, we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical and/or preclinical testing for these product candidates or cease our clinical trials. If this occurs, we may not be able to obtain approval for these product candidates or our anticipated time to market for these product candidates may be substantially delayed and we may also experience significant additional development costs. We may also be required to undertake additional clinical testing if we change or expand the indications for our product candidates. 17 Table of Contents If approved, the commercialization of our product candidates, including Azedra, Onalta and Zemiva, may not be profitable due to the need to develop sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, or make arrangements with a third party to perform these functions. In order for the commercialization of our potential products to be profitable, our products must be cost-effective and economical to manufacture on a commercial scale. Subject to regulatory approval, we expect to incur significant sales, marketing, distribution and, to the extent we do not outsource manufacturing, manufacturing expenses in connection with the commercialization of Azedra, Onalta and Zemiva and our other potential products as we do not currently have a dedicated sales force, we do not have manufacturing capability, and we have no experience in the sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products. In order to commercialize Azedra, Onalta and Zemiva or any of our other potential products that we develop, we must develop sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or make arrangements with a third party to perform these functions. Developing a sales force is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to develop this capacity. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, independently or with others, we may not be able to generate significant revenue and may not become profitable. Our future profitability will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to: • the costs and timing of developing a commercial scale manufacturing facility or the costs of outsourcing the manufacturing of Azedra, Onalta and Zemiva; • receipt of FDA approval of Azedra, Onalta, Zemiva and our other product candidates, as applicable; • the terms of any marketing restrictions or post-marketing commitments imposed as a condition of approval by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities; • the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights; • costs of establishing sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; • the effect of competing technological and market developments; and • the terms and timing of any collaborative, licensing and other arrangements that we may establish. Even if we receive regulatory approval for Azedra, Onalta, Zemiva or any of our other product candidates, we may never receive significant revenues from any of them. To the extent that we are not successful in commercializing our potential products, we will incur significant additional losses and the price of our common stock will be negatively affected. We do not have patent rights to the composition of Zemiva, and if we cannot gain and exploit a period of marketing exclusivity under the Food, Drug & Cosmetic Act, as amended, we may not be able to successfully commercialize Zemiva or our other product candidates. We do not have patent rights to the composition of Zemiva. The original patent protecting BMIPP, the underlying active molecule in Zemiva, expired in 2003. We believe that Zemiva is a new chemical entity in the United States and should be eligible for market exclusivity under the Food, Drug & Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, as amended by the Hatch-Waxman Act of 1984. A drug can be classified as a new chemical entity if the FDA has not previously approved any other new drug containing the same active agent. Under sections 505(c)(3)(D)(ii) and 505(j)(5)(D)(ii) of the FDCA, as amended by the Hatch-Waxman Act of 1984, a new chemical entity that is granted regulatory approvals may, in the absence of patent protections, be eligible for five years of marketing exclusivity in the United States following regulatory approval. This marketing exclusivity will protect us from any other applicant utilizing the materials in support of our new drug application, or NDA, during the exclusivity period. However, there is no assurance that Zemiva will be considered a new chemical entity for these purposes or be entitled to the period of marketing exclusivity. If we are not able to gain or exploit the period of marketing exclusivity, we may not be able to successfully commercialize Zemiva or may face significant competitive threats to such commercialization from other manufacturers, including the manufacturers of generic alternatives. Further, even if Zemiva is considered a new chemical entity and we are able to gain five years of marketing exclusivity, another company could also 18 Table of Contents gain such marketing exclusivity under the provisions of the FDCA, as amended by the Hatch-Waxman Act, if such company can complete a full NDA with a complete human clinical trial process and obtain regulatory approval of its product. Our proprietary rights may not adequately protect our intellectual property and product candidates and if we cannot obtain adequate protection of our intellectual property and product candidates, we may not be able to successfully market our product candidates. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining and maintaining intellectual property protection for our technologies and product candidates. We will only be able to protect our technologies and product candidates from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid and enforceable patents cover them, or that other market exclusionary rights apply. Our lead cardiovascular molecular imaging candidate, Zemiva, is not covered by patent rights. We hold the patent rights to our second generation cardiac candidate, a derivative of Zemiva. Because Zemiva itself is not patented, we depend on obtaining the five year period of marketing exclusivity under the FDCA for Zemiva as a new chemical entity. Failure to obtain this marketing exclusivity right would permit competitors to gain access to the market for Zemiva. While we have issued enforceable patents covering our oncology product candidate MIP-220, our neurology product candidate MIP-170 and our Ultratrace radiolabeling technology platform, some of our patent rights for these compounds and technologies are still pending patent applications. We cannot guarantee these patent applications will issue as patents. The patent positions of life sciences companies, like ours, can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in such companies’ patents has emerged to date in the United States. The general patent environment outside the United States also involves significant uncertainty. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or that the scope of these patent rights would provide a sufficient degree of future protection that would permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage with respect to these products and technology. Additionally, life science companies like ours are dependent on creating a pipeline of products. We may not be able to develop additional proprietary technologies or product candidates that produce commercially viable products, or that are themselves patentable. Our issued patents may be subject to challenge and possibly invalidated by third parties. Changes in either the patent laws or in the interpretations of patent laws in the United States or other countries may diminish the market exclusionary ability of our intellectual property. In addition, others may independently develop similar or alternative compounds and technologies that may be outside the scope of our intellectual property. Should third parties obtain patent rights to similar compounds or radiolabeling technology, this may have an adverse effect on our business. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. In particular, we rely on trade secrets to protect certain manufacturing aspects of our compound Zemiva. Trade secrets, however, are difficult to protect. While we believe that we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our own or our strategic partners’ employees, consultants, contractors or advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. We seek to protect this information, in part, through the use of non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, advisors and others. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for a breach. In addition, we cannot ensure that those agreements will provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information and prevent their unauthorized use or disclosure. To the extent that consultants or key employees apply technological information independently developed by them or by others to our product candidates, disputes may arise as to the proprietary rights of the information, which may not be resolved in our favor. Consultants and key employees that work with our confidential and proprietary technologies are required to assign all intellectual property rights in their discoveries to us. However, these consultants or key employees may terminate their relationship with us, and we cannot preclude them indefinitely from dealing with our competitors. If our trade secrets become known to 19 Table of Contents competitors with greater experience and financial resources, the competitors may copy or use our trade secrets and other proprietary information in the advancement of their products, methods or technologies. If we were to prosecute a claim that a third party had illegally obtained and was using our trade secrets, it would be expensive and time consuming and the outcome would be unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets than courts in the United States. Moreover, if our competitors independently develop equivalent knowledge, we would lack any contractual claim to this information, and our business could be harmed. Our ability to commercialize our product candidates will depend on our ability to sell such products without infringing the patent or proprietary rights of third parties. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, such litigation will be costly and time consuming and an unfavorable outcome would have a significant adverse effect on our business. Our ability to commercialize our product candidates will depend on our ability to sell such products without infringing the patents or other proprietary rights of third parties. Third-party intellectual property in the fields of cardiology, oncology, neurology, and radiopharmaceutical technologies are complicated, and third-party intellectual property rights in these fields are continuously evolving. We have not performed searches for third-party intellectual property rights that may raise freedom-to-operate issues, and we have not obtained legal opinions regarding commercialization of our product candidates. As such, there may be existing patents that may affect our ability to commercialize our product candidates. In addition, because patent applications are published 18 months after their filing, and because applications can take several years to issue, there may be currently pending third-party patent applications that are unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents. If a third-party claims that we infringe on its patents or other proprietary rights, we could face a number of issues that could seriously harm our competitive position, including: • infringement claims that, with or without merit, can be costly and time consuming to litigate, can delay the regulatory approval process and can divert management’s attention from our core business strategy; • substantial damages for past infringement which we may have to pay if a court determines that our products or technologies infringe upon a competitor’s patent or other proprietary rights; • a court order prohibiting us from commercializing our products or technologies unless the holder licenses the patent or other proprietary rights to us, which such holder is not required to do; • if a license is available from a holder, we may have to pay substantial royalties or grant cross licenses to our patents or other proprietary rights; and • redesigning our process so that it does not infringe the third-party intellectual property, which may not be possible, or which may require substantial time and expense including delays in bringing our own products to market. Such actions could harm our competitive position and our ability to generate revenue and could result in increased costs. We may be unable to obtain Orphan Drug marketing exclusivity for certain of our product candidates and if another party obtains Orphan Drug exclusivity instead, approval of our product for the same indication could be prevented for seven years. Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant Orphan Drug designation to drugs intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is defined by the FDA as a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States. Orphan Drug designation does not shorten the development or regulatory review time of a drug, but does provide limited advantages in the regulatory review and approval process. The company that obtains the first FDA approval for a designated Orphan Drug indication receives marketing exclusivity for use of that drug for that indication for a period of seven years. Moreover, even if we obtain Orphan Drug exclusivity for one or more indications, our exclusivity may be lost if the FDA later 20 Table of Contents determines that the request for designation was materially defective, or if we are unable to assure sufficient quantity of the drug. Orphan Drug exclusivity for Azedra and Onalta also would not prevent a competitor from obtaining approval of a different drug to treat the same Orphan Drug indications. If our product candidates, including Azedra, Onalta and Zemiva, do not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients and the medical community, we will be unable to generate significant revenue, if any. The products that we develop may not achieve market acceptance among physicians, patients, third-party payers and others in the medical community. If we receive the regulatory approvals necessary for commercialization, the degree of market acceptance will depend upon a number of factors, including: • limited indications of regulatory approvals; • the establishment and demonstration in the medical community of the clinical efficacy and safety of our product candidates and their potential advantages over existing diagnostic compounds; • the prevalence and severity of any side effects; • our ability to offer our product candidates at an acceptable price; • the relative convenience and ease of administration of our products; • the strength of marketing and distribution support; and • sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. The market may not accept Azedra, Onalta or Zemiva based on any number of the above factors. If Zemiva is approved, its primary competition in the emergency department setting will be the then current standard of care, which involves several diagnostic products, and its primary competition in the non-acute setting will be existing perfusion agents such as Cardiolite and Myoview. As of the time that Azedra and Onalta are approved, there may be other therapies available which directly compete for the same indications. The market may choose to continue utilizing the existing products for any number of reasons, including familiarity with or pricing of these existing products. The failure of any of our product candidates to gain market acceptance could impair our ability to generate revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. We have no commercial manufacturing facility for Azedra, Onalta, Zemiva or any of our other product candidates and no experience in manufacturing products for commercial purposes and the failure to find manufacturing partners or create a manufacturing facility ourselves could have an adverse impact on our ability to grow our business. We have no commercial manufacturing facility for Azedra, Onalta, Zemiva or our other product candidates and no experience in manufacturing commercial quantities of our product candidates. As such, we are dependent on third parties to supply our product candidates according to our specifications, in sufficient quantities, on time, in compliance with appropriate regulatory standards and at competitive prices. We cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain an adequate supply of our product candidates on acceptable terms, or at all. Zemiva is BMIPP that has been radiolabeled with I-123. We are currently aware of only one commercial provider of BMIPP, MDS Nordion, in the United States. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient amounts of BMIPP from this provider to produce adequate quantities of Zemiva. If this provider is unable to meet our demand, we would be required to find alternative sources of BMIPP, including producing BMIPP ourselves or contracting with third parties to produce BMIPP. We are not aware of any proprietary or technical reasons prohibiting the manufacture of BMIPP by us or a third party. However finding an alternative source for Zemiva would likely result in unforeseen costs and delays to the commercialization of Zemiva. We have contracted with a Canadian company, MDS Nordion, to construct a manufacturing facility to radiolabel BMIPP and supply Zemiva. There can be no assurance that there will not be delays in the construction or completion of this facility. Such delays may adversely affect our ability to meet demand for 21 Table of Contents Zemiva. In addition, we may be required to use a portion of the proceeds from our initial public offering to assist in the funding of the manufacture of Azedra, Onalta and Zemiva and our other product candidates. Manufacturers supplying biopharmaceutical products must comply with FDA regulations which require, among other things, compliance with the FDA’s evolving regulations on cGMPs, which are enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. The manufacture of products at any facility will be subject to strict quality control, testing and record keeping requirements, and continuing obligations regarding the submission of safety reports and other post-market information. Since the commercial manufacturing facility for Zemiva has not been constructed, the FDA has not certified the cGMP compliant manufacture of Zemiva. We cannot guarantee that the resultant facility will pass FDA inspection, or that future changes to cGMP manufacturing standards will not also affect the cGMP compliant manufacture of Zemiva. Azedra is in a Phase 1 clinical trial and MIP-220, MIP-190 and MIP-170 are in preclinical or discovery stages. We have no commercial cGMP manufacturing capability for these candidates, and currently no third-party manufacturer for them. As such, we may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of these product candidates as we develop our pre-clinical or clinical programs for these compounds. We will need to enter into additional manufacturing arrangements for the manufacturing needs for all other product candidates. We have not yet determined if we will construct our own manufacturing facility for these product candidates, or if MDS Nordion will be contracted to fulfill this role, or if another manufacturer will be sought. We cannot guarantee that a suitable manufacturer for these product candidates will be found, or that we will be able to secure manufacturing agreements on acceptable terms with any of these manufacturers. We also cannot guarantee that such manufacturer will be able to supply sufficient quantities of our product candidates, or that they will meet the requirements for clinical testing and cGMP manufacturing. If we fail to attract and retain senior management, consultants, advisors and scientific and technical personnel, our product development and commercialization efforts could be impaired. Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance of our senior management and key scientific and technical personnel, particularly David Barlow, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and John Babich, our President and Chief Scientific Officer. Although we have entered into employment agreements with five members of our senior management, David Barlow, John Babich, John McCray, Nicholas Borys and Bob Gallahue, there is no assurance that they will remain in our employ for the entire term of such employment agreements. The loss of the services of any member of our senior management or our scientific or technical staff may significantly delay or prevent the development of our product candidates and other business objectives by diverting management’s attention to transition matters and identification of suitable replacements, if any, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We maintain key man life insurance on David Barlow and John Babich. We also rely on consultants and advisors to assist us in formulating our research and development strategy. All of our consultants and advisors are either self-employed or employed by other organizations, and they may have conflicts of interest or other commitments, such as consulting or advisory contracts with other organizations, that may affect their ability to contribute to us. In addition, we believe that we will need to recruit additional executive management and scientific and technical personnel. There is currently intense competition for skilled executives and employees with relevant scientific and technical expertise, and this competition is likely to continue. The inability to attract and retain sufficient scientific, technical and managerial personnel could limit or delay our product development efforts, which would adversely affect the development of our product candidates and commercialization of our potential products and growth of our business. We expect to expand our research, development, clinical research and marketing capabilities and, as a result, we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth, which could disrupt our operations. We expect to have significant growth in expenditures, the number of our employees and the scope of our operations, in particular with respect to those potential products that we elect to commercialize independently or together with others. To manage our anticipated future growth, we must continue to implement and improve 22 Table of Contents our managerial, operational and financial systems, expand our facilities and continue to train qualified personnel. Due to our limited resources, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or train additional qualified personnel. The physical expansion of our operations may lead to significant costs and may divert our management and business development resources. Any inability to manage growth could delay the execution of our business plan or disrupt our operations. We will need to raise additional funds in order to finance the anticipated commercialization of our product candidates by incurring indebtedness, through collaboration and licensing arrangements, or by issuing securities which may cause dilution to existing stockholders or require us to relinquish rights to our technologies and our product candidates. Developing our product candidates, conducting clinical trials, establishing manufacturing facilities and developing marketing and distribution capabilities is expensive. We will need to finance future cash needs through additional public or private equity offerings, debt financings or corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs or our commercialization efforts. To the extent that we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience additional dilution. Debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants. To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies or our product candidates or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. We have a history of losses and expect to continue to incur losses and may not achieve or maintain profitability. We have incurred net losses every year since our inception in 1997 and have generated no revenue during the development stage from product sales or licenses to date. As of December 31, 2006, we had a deficit accumulated during the development stage of approximately $85.3 million. We expect to incur additional losses for at least the next several years and cannot be certain that we will ever achieve profitability. As a result, our business is subject to all of the risks inherent in the development of a new business enterprise, such as the risks that we may not obtain substantial additional capital needed to support the expenses of developing our technology and commercializing our potential products; develop a market for our potential products; successfully transition from a company with a research focus to a company capable of either manufacturing and selling potential products or profitably licensing our potential products to others; and/or attract and retain qualified management, technical and scientific staff. We currently have no significant source of revenue and may never become profitable. To date, we have not generated any revenue for product sales and we do not know when or if any of our product candidates will generate revenue. Our ability to generate revenue depends on a number of factors, including our ability to successfully complete clinical trials for Azedra, Onalta and Zemiva and obtain regulatory approval to commercialize these potential products. Even then, we will need to establish and maintain sales, marketing, distribution and to the extent we do not outsource manufacturing, manufacturing capabilities. We plan to rely on one or more strategic collaborators to help generate revenues in markets outside of the United States, and we cannot be sure that our collaborators, if any, will be successful. Our ability to generate revenue will also be impacted by certain challenges, risks and uncertainties frequently encountered in the establishment of new technologies and products in emerging markets and evolving industries. These challenges include our ability to: • execute our business model; • create brand recognition; • manage growth in our operations; • create a customer base cost-effectively; 23 Table of Contents • retain customers; • access additional capital when required; and • attract and retain key personnel. We cannot be certain that our business model will be successful or that it will successfully address these and other challenges, risks and uncertainties. If we are unable to generate significant revenue, we may not become profitable, and we may be unable to continue our operations. Even if we are able to commercialize Azedra, Onalta and Zemiva, we may not achieve profitability for at least several years, if at all, after generating material revenue. We license patent rights from third-party owners. If such owners do not properly maintain or enforce the patents underlying such licenses, our competitive position and business prospects will be harmed. We are party to a number of licenses that give us rights to third-party intellectual property that is necessary or useful for our business. In particular, we have obtained the nonexclusive rights from Novartis Pharma AG, or Novartis, for certain radiolabeled somatostatin analogs and the exclusive rights to the particular somatostatin analog compound edotreotide, along with know how related to the manufacture and use of this compound. We may enter into additional licenses to third-party intellectual property in the future. Our success will depend in part on the ability of our licensors to obtain, maintain and enforce patent protection for their intellectual property, in particular, those patents to which we have secured exclusive rights. Our licensors may not successfully prosecute the patent applications to which we are licensed. Even if patents issue with respect to these patent applications, our licensors may fail to maintain these patents, may determine not to pursue litigation against other companies that are infringing these patents, or may pursue such litigation less aggressively than we would. In addition, our licensors may terminate their agreements with us in the event we breach the applicable license agreement and fail to cure the breach within a specified period of time. Without protection for the intellectual property we license, other companies might be able to offer substantially identical products for sale, which could adversely affect our competitive business position and harm our business prospects. Under the license agreement with Novartis Pharma AG, Novartis has retained an option to reacquire rights in the compound if annual sales exceed a certain threshold level. If Novartis does exercise this call back option, we will be required to sell to Novartis the rights in the compound which may have a negative affect on our operating results. We currently have an existing material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. If we are unable to improve and maintain the quality of our system of internal control over financial reporting, any deficiencies could materially and adversely affect our ability to report timely and accurate financial information about us. In connection with the audit of our consolidated financial statements, as of and for the year ended December 31, 2006, management identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. This was a matter that, in our judgment, could adversely affect our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information consistent with the assertions of management in our financial statements. A material weakness is defined as a significant deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Specifically, our controls over the application of generally accepted accounting principles were ineffective because the company (1) did not maintain a sufficient complement of personnel with an appropriate level of accounting knowledge, experience, and training in the application of generally accepted accounting principals commensurate with the Company’s financial accounting and reporting requirements; and (2) the period-end financial close and reporting process was not operating effectively. In an effort to remediate this material weakness, the Company intends to hire additional accounting and financial personnel, and to enhance its financial reporting procedures and systems. This resulted in a number of post-close adjustments and corrections. We cannot be certain that the measures we have taken or plan to take will ensure that we will maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in 24 Table of Contents the future. Any failure to maintain adequate controls or to adequately implement required new or improved controls could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inadequate internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. Beginning no later than with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007, we will be required to furnish a report by our management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This report will contain, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our 2007 fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is operating effectively. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. Beginning in 2008, assuming we meet the definition of an accelerated filer, this report should also contain a statement that our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on management’s assessment of such internal control. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of December 31, 2007, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. We have relied on government funding, which could require us to take action with respect to our technology or patents that may not be in our best interest and which, if lost or reduced, could have an adverse effect on our research and development. We have relied on government research grants for a portion of our funding, including grants awarded by the National Institutes of Health under the Small Business Innovation Research program and the Small Business Technology Transfer program. Most of our government grants have been awarded as Phase 1 grants and we expect to file Phase 2 grant applications where appropriate, but we cannot be assured that these grants or any new Phase 1 grant applications will be awarded to us, nor can we be sure that we will continue to be eligible to receive such grants now that our initial public offering is completed. Under the terms of our government grants, we have all right, title and interest in our patents, copyrights and data pertaining to our product development, subject to certain rights of the government. Under existing regulations, the government receives a royalty-free license for federal government use for all patents developed under a government grant. In addition, under certain circumstances the government may require us to license technology resulting from the government funded projects to third parties and may require that we manufacture our product in the United States, even if we determine that such actions are not in our best interest. Funding of government grants is subject to government appropriation and all of our government contracts contain provisions which make them terminable at the convenience of the government. The government could terminate, reduce or delay the funding under any of our grants at any time. Accordingly, there is no assurance that we will receive funding of any grants that we may be awarded, including the approximately $984,200 remaining portion of grants that we had been awarded as of December 31, 2006. In the event we are not successful in obtaining any new government grants or extensions to existing grants, our research and development efforts could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Industry Our competitors may develop products that are less expensive, safer or more effective, which may diminish or eliminate the commercial success of any potential products that we may commercialize. If our competitors market products that are less expensive, safer or more effective than our future products developed from our product candidates, or that reach the market before our product candidates, we may not achieve commercial success. For example, if approved, Zemiva will compete in the emergency department setting with the current standard of care in the assessment of chest pain patients who present to emergency departments. This standard involves several diagnostic products and procedures, in some cases involving the use of perfusion imaging agents, which in the aggregate may require several hours or days of hospitalization to reach an ultimate diagnosis. If approved, Zemiva’s primary competition in the non-acute setting will be perfusion imaging agents such as Cardiolite produced by Bristol-Myers Squibb Medical Imaging, Myoview produced by GE Healthcare, and generic thallium, the primary U.S. supplier being Tyco 25 Table of Contents Healthcare/Mallinckrodt. The market may choose to continue utilizing the existing products for any number of reasons, including familiarity with or pricing of these existing products. The failure of Zemiva or any of our product candidates to compete with products marketed by our competitors would impair our ability to generate revenue, which would have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect to compete with several pharmaceutical companies including Bristol-Myers Squibb Medical Imaging, GE Healthcare and Tyco Healthcare/Mallinckrodt, and our competitors may: • develop and market products that are less expensive or more effective than our future products; • commercialize competing products before we or our partners can launch any products developed from our product candidates; • operate larger research and development programs or have substantially greater financial resources than we do; • initiate or withstand substantial price competition more successfully than we can; • have greater success in recruiting skilled technical and scientific workers from the limited pool of available talent; • more effectively negotiate third-party licenses and strategic relationships; and • take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities more readily than we can. We expect to compete for market share against large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, smaller companies that are collaborating with larger pharmaceutical companies, new companies, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations. In addition, the life sciences industry is characterized by rapid technological change. Because our research approach integrates many technologies, it may be difficult for us to stay abreast of the rapid changes in each technology. If we fail to stay at the forefront of technological change, we may be unable to compete effectively. Our competitors may render our technologies obsolete by advances in existing technological approaches or the development of new or different approaches, potentially eliminating the advantages in our product discovery process that we believe we derive from our research approach and proprietary technologies. The use of hazardous materials in our operations may subject us to environmental claims or liabilities. Our research and development activities involve the use of hazardous materials, including chemicals and biological and radioactive materials. Injury or contamination from these materials may occur and we could be held liable for any damages, which could exceed our available financial resources. This liability could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and waste products. We may be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to comply with extensive regulations enforced by the FDA and other agencies with respect to pharmaceutical products, the commercialization of our product candidates could be prevented, delayed or halted. Research, preclinical development, clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing of our product candidates are subject to extensive regulation by various government authorities. We have not received marketing approval for Azedra, Onalta, Zemiva or our other product candidates. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals is lengthy and expensive, and the time required for such approvals is uncertain. The approval process is affected by such factors as: • the severity of the disease; 26 Table of Contents • the quality of submission relating to the product candidate; • the product candidate’s clinical efficacy and safety; • the strength of the chemistry and manufacturing control of the process; • the manufacturing facility compliance; • the availability of alternative treatments; • the risks and benefits demonstrated in clinical trials; and • the patent status and marketing exclusivity rights of certain innovative products. Any regulatory approvals that we or our partners receive for our product candidates may also be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product candidate may be marketed or contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing follow-up studies. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with the product candidate, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, may result in restrictions on the marketing of the product candidate and withdrawal of the product candidate from the market. U.S. manufacturing, labeling, storage and distribution activities also are subject to strict regulating and licensing by the FDA. The manufacturing facilities for our biopharmaceutical products are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA and other regulatory authorities and from time to time, these agencies may send notice of deficiencies as a result of such inspections. Our failure, or the failure of our biopharmaceutical manufacturing facilities, to continue to meet regulatory standards or to remedy any deficiencies could result in corrective action by the FDA or these other authorities, including the interruption or prevention of marketing, closure of our biopharmaceutical manufacturing facilities, and fines or penalties. Regulatory authorities also will require post-marketing surveillance to monitor and report to the FDA potential adverse effects of our product candidates. Congress or the FDA in specific situations can modify the regulatory process. If approved, any of our product candidates’ subsequent failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could, among other things, result in warning letters, fines, suspension or revocation of regulatory approvals, product recalls or seizures, operating restrictions, injunctions and criminal prosecutions. The FDA’s policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we might not be permitted to market our product candidates and our business could suffer. In the future, we intend to distribute and sell our potential products outside of the United States, which will subject us to further regulatory risk. In addition to seeking approval from the FDA for Azedra, Onalta and Zemiva in the United States, we intend to seek the governmental approval required to market Azedra, Onalta and Zemiva and our other potential products in European Union countries such as the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Belgium, Holland and Italy through third parties. We may in the future also seek approvals for additional countries. The regulatory review process varies from country to country, and approval by foreign government authorities is unpredictable, uncertain and generally expensive. Our ability to market our potential products could be substantially limited due to delays in receipt of, or failure to receive, the necessary approvals or clearances. We anticipate commencing the applications required in some or all of these countries following approval by the FDA; however, we may decide to file applications in advance of the FDA approval if we determine such filings to be both time and cost effective. If we export any of our potential products that have not yet been cleared for domestic commercial distribution, such products may be subject to FDA export restrictions. Marketing of our potential products in these countries, and in most other countries, is not permitted until we have obtained required approvals or exemptions in each individual country. Failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals could impair our ability to generate revenue from international sources. 27 Table of Contents Market acceptance of our potential products will be limited if users are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement from third-party payers. Government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations generally provide reimbursement for products like our product candidates, and our commercial success will depend in part on these third-party payers agreeing to reimburse patients for the costs of our potential products. Even if we succeed in bringing any of our product candidates to market, we cannot assure you that third-party payers will consider our potential products cost effective or provide reimbursement in whole or in part for their use. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products. Each of our product candidates is intended to replace or alter existing therapies or procedures. These third-party payers may conclude that our product candidates are less safe, effective or cost-effective than these existing therapies or procedures. Therefore, third-party payers may not approve our products candidates for reimbursement. If third-party payers do not approve our product candidates for reimbursement or fail to reimburse for them adequately, sales will suffer as some physicians or their patients will opt for a competing product that is approved for reimbursement or is adequately reimbursed. Even if third-party payers make reimbursement available, these payers’ reimbursement policies may adversely affect our ability and the ability of our potential collaborators to sell our potential products on a profitable basis. The trend toward managed healthcare in the United States, the growth of organizations such as health maintenance organizations and legislative proposals to reform healthcare and government insurance programs could significantly influence the purchase of healthcare services and products, resulting in lower prices and reduced demand for our products which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of our product candidates may change in ways adverse to us before or after the FDA or other regulatory agencies approve any of our product candidates for marketing. While we cannot predict the likelihood of any of these legislative or regulatory proposals, if any government or regulatory agencies adopt these proposals, they could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Product liability claims may damage our reputation and, if insurance proves inadequate, the product liability claims may harm our business. We may be exposed to the risk of product liability claims that is inherent in the biopharmaceutical industry. A product liability claim may damage our reputation by raising questions about our product’s safety and efficacy and could limit our ability to sell one or more products by preventing or interfering with commercialization of our potential products. In addition, product liability insurance for the biopharmaceutical industry is generally expensive to the extent it is available at all. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain and maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or that we will be able to secure increased coverage if the commercialization of our potential products progresses, or that future claims against us will be covered by our product liability insurance. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the existing coverage of our insurance policy and/or any rights of indemnification and contribution that we may have will offset any future claims. We currently maintain product liability insurance of $10 million per occurrence and in the aggregate for clinical trial related occurrences only. We believe that this coverage is currently adequate based on current and projected business activities and the associated risk exposure, although we expect to increase this coverage as our business activities and associated risks grow. A successful claim against us with respect to uninsured liabilities or in excess of insurance coverage and not subject to any indemnification or contribution could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 28 Table of Contents We could be negatively impacted by the application or enforcement of federal and state fraud and abuse laws, including anti-kickback laws and other federal and state anti-referral laws. We are not aware of any current business practice which is in violation of any federal or state fraud and abuse law. However, continued vigilance to assure compliance with all potentially applicable laws will be a necessary expense associated with product development. For example, all product marketing efforts must be strictly scrutinized to assure that they are not associated with improper remunerations to referral sources in violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and similar state statutes. Remunerations may include potential future activities for our product candidates, including discounts, rebates and bundled sales, which must be appropriately structured to take advantage of statutory and regulatory “safe harbors.” From time to time we engage physicians in consulting activities. In addition, we may decide to sponsor continuing medical education activities for physicians or other medical personnel. We also may award or sponsor study grants to physicians from time to time. All relationships with physicians, including consulting arrangements, continuing medical education and study grants, must be similarly reviewed for compliance with the Anti-Kickback Statute to assure that remuneration is not provided in return for referrals. Patient inducements may also be unlawful. Inaccurate reports of product pricing, or a failure to provide product at an appropriate price to various governmental entities, could also serve as a basis for an enforcement action under various theories. Claims which are “tainted” by virtue of kickbacks or a violation of self-referral rules may be alleged as false claims if other elements of a violation are established. The federal False Claims Act, which includes a provision allowing whistleblowers to bring actions on behalf of the federal government and receive a portion of the recovery, applies to those who submit a false claim and those who cause a false claim to be submitted. Because our potential customers may seek payments from the federal healthcare programs for our product candidates, even during the clinical trial stages, we must assure that we take no actions which could result in the submission of false claims. For example, free product samples which are knowingly or with reckless disregard billed to the federal healthcare programs could constitute false claims. If the practice was facilitated or fostered by us, we could be liable. Moreover, inadequate accounting for or a misuse of federal grant funds used for product research and development could be alleged as a violation of the False Claims Act or other relevant statutes. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations, and additional legal or regulatory change. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile, and your investment in our stock could decline in value. The market prices for securities of biotechnology companies in general have been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile in the future. The following factors, in addition to other risk factors described in this section, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock: • results from and any delays in the clinical trials programs; • failure or delays in entering additional product candidates into clinical trials; • failure or discontinuation of any of our research programs; • delays in establishing new strategic relationships; • delays in the development of our product candidates and commercialization of our potential products; • market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors and issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports or recommendations; • actual and anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial and operating results; • developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights; • introduction of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; 29 Table of Contents • issues in manufacturing our product candidates or products; • market acceptance of our products; • third-party healthcare reimbursement policies; • FDA or other United States or foreign regulatory actions affecting us or our industry; • litigation or public concern about the safety of our product candidates or products; and • additions or departures of key personnel. These and other external factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. In addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. If the ownership of our common stock continues to be highly concentrated, it may prevent you and other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions and may result in entrenchment of management or conflicts of interest that could cause our stock price to decline. As of March 15, 2007, our executive officers, directors, and their affiliates beneficially own or control approximately 15.62% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Accordingly, these executive officers, directors and their affiliates, acting as a group, will have substantial influence over the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets, or any other significant corporate transactions. These stockholders may also delay or prevent a change of control of our company, even if such a change of control would benefit our other stockholders. The significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock due to investors’ perception that entrenchment of management or conflicts of interest may exist or arise. A significant portion of our total outstanding shares are restricted from immediate resale but may be sold into the market in the near future. This could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. We had outstanding 24,744,284 shares of common stock as of March 15, 2007. The shares that were sold in our IPO may be resold in the public market immediately, and 19,744,284 shares that are currently restricted as a result of securities laws or lock-up agreements will be able to be sold in the near future as set forth below. Number of Shares and % of Total Outstanding Date Available for Sale into Public Market 18,801,857 shares, or 75.98% On August 1, 2007, which is 181 days, subject to extension in certain cases, after the date of our initial public offering due to the lock-up agreements between the holders of these shares and the underwriters or the Company, respectively. However, the underwriters or the Company, as applicable, can waive the provisions of these lock-up agreements and allow these stockholders to sell their shares at any time. Sales of these shares by ‘‘affiliates” and sales of these shares by non-“affiliates” who have held such shares for less than two years are subject to the volume limitations, manner of sale provisions, and public information requirements of Rule 144. 30 Table of Contents We intend to register the shares of common stock issuable or reserved for issuance under our equity plans prior to August 1, 2007, which is 181 days after the date of our initial public offering. In addition to the foregoing, there were options to purchase 871,636 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase 394,877 shares of common stock outstanding and exercisable as of March 15, 2007. Evolving regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses and continuing uncertainty. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations, and Nasdaq National Market rules are creating uncertainty for public companies. As a result of these new rules, we will incur additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. In addition, these new rules could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and this could make it difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors. We are presently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to new and proposed rules and cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. These new or changed laws, regulations, and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations, and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations, and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and we may be harmed. We have limited experience attempting to comply with public company obligations, including Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the SEC has adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a public company’s financial statements must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting of all companies deemed an accelerated filer under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The requirement to include a report of management on the company’s internal controls over financial reporting will first apply to our annual report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our securities. We have never paid dividends on our common stock, and except for payment of accrued dividends to certain preferred holders, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock to date. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our capital stock for the foreseeable future. In addition, the terms of existing or any future debt facilities may preclude us from paying dividends on our stock. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. 31 Table of Contents Some provisions of our Restated Articles of Organization and Amended and Restated Bylaws may inhibit potential acquisition bids that you may consider favorable. Our Restated Articles of Organization and Amended and Restated Bylaws contain provisions that may enable our Board of Directors to resist a change in control of our company even if a change in control were to be considered favorable by stockholders. These provisions include: • the authorization of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; • advance notice procedures required for stockholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before an annual meeting of stockholders; • limitations on persons authorized to call a meeting of stockholders; • a staggered Board of Directors; and • supermajority voting requirements to remove directors from office. These and other provisions contained in our charter and bylaws could delay or discourage transactions involving an actual or potential change in control of us or our management, including transactions which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current prices, and may limit the ability of stockholders to remove our current management or approve transactions that our stockholders may deem to be in their best interest and, therefore, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 