Item 1A. Risk Factors Calpine’s bankruptcy and certain matters that have survived Calpine’s bankruptcy may adversely affect us in several respects. Calpine, its creditors or interest holders have challenged the fairness of some or all of the Acquisition. On June 29, 2007, Calpine filed an adversary proceeding against us in the Bankruptcy Court (the “Lawsuit”). The complaint alleges that the purchase by us of the domestic oil and natural gas business formally owned by Calpine (the “Assets”) in July 2005 for $1.05 billion, prior to Calpine's declaring bankruptcy, was completed when Calpine was insolvent and was for less than a reasonably equivalent value. Through the Lawsuit, Calpine is seeking (i) monetary damages for the alleged shortfall in value it received for the Assets, which it estimates to be at least approximately $400 million plus interest, or (ii) in the alternative, return of the Assets. We deny and intend to vigorously defend against all claims made by Calpine. The Official Committee of Equity Security Holders and the Official Committee of the Unsecured Creditors both intervened in the Lawsuit for the stated purpose of monitoring the proceedings because these committees claim to have an interest in the Lawsuit, which we dispute because creditors may be paid in full under Calpine’s Plan of Reorganization without regard to the Lawsuit and equity holders cannot benefit from fraudulent conveyance actions. On September 10, 2007, we filed a motion to dismiss the complaint, which the Bankruptcy Court heard on October 24, 2007. Following the hearing, the Bankruptcy Court denied our motion on the basis that certain issues we raised in our motion were premature as the bankruptcy process had not yet established how much Calpine’s creditors would receive. We filed our answer and counterclaims against Calpine on November 5, 2007. Under Calpine’s Plan of Reorganization approved by the Bankruptcy Court on December 19, 2007, the Official Committee of Equity Security Holders was dissolved as of the January 31, 2008 effective date and no longer has any interest in the Lawsuit. While the Unsecured Creditors Committee also officially dissolved as of the same effective date, there are provisions that will allow it to remain involved in lawsuits to which it is a party, which may include this Lawsuit. The Bankruptcy Court has not set a trial date for the Lawsuit, but the parties are in current agreement that discovery may continue up through April 2008. If after a trial on the merits, the Bankruptcy Court determines that Calpine has met its burden of proof, the Bankruptcy Court could void the transfer or take other actions against us, including (i) setting aside the Acquisition and returning some or all of our purchase price and/or giving us a first lien on all the properties and assets we purchased in the Acquisition or (ii) entering a judgment requiring us to pay Calpine the amount, if any, by which the fair value of the business transferred, as determined by the Bankruptcy Court as of the date of the transaction, exceeded the purchase price determined and paid in July 2005. If the Bankruptcy Court should set aside the Acquisition, it would have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows in that substantially all of the properties received by us at the time of the Acquisition would be returned to Calpine, subject to our right (as a good faith transferee) to retain a lien in our favor to secure the return of the purchase price we paid for the properties. Additionally, if the Bankruptcy Court should so rule, any requirement to pay an increased purchase price could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operation and financial condition depending on the amount we might be required to pay. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings for further information regarding the Calpine bankruptcy. 13 Table of Contents The bankruptcy proceeding may prevent, frustrate or delay our ability to receive record legal title to certain properties originally determined to be Non-Consent Properties which we are entitled to receive under the Purchase Agreement. On June 20, 2007, Calpine filed with the Bankruptcy Court its proposed Plan of Reorganization and disclosure statement. In the disclosure statement, Calpine revealed that it had not yet made a decision on whether to assume or reject its remaining obligations and duties under the Purchase Agreement, including the interrelated agreements, which set forth the terms and agreements related to Calpine’s sale of its oil and gas assets to us. In its proposed supplement to the plan filed on the same date, however, Calpine indicated its desire to assume the NAESB agreements under which Rosetta sells gas to Calpine Energy Services (“CES”) and the Calpine Producer Services, L.P. (“CPS”) marketing agreement under which CPS provides certain marketing services on our behalf. We contend that all of the transaction documents constitute one agreement in regard to the Acquisition and must, therefore, be assumed or rejected in their entirety as one agreement and will vigorously oppose any effort by Calpine to treat any aspect of the transaction documents as a stand-alone agreement. Following negotiations with Calpine with respect to its Plan of Reorganization and its efforts to assume portions of the Purchase Agreement, we agreed to extend the deadline for Calpine to assume or reject the Purchase Agreement with Rosetta related to the transaction until fifteen days following the conclusion of the Lawsuit. In return, Calpine has agreed not to assume or reject the CPS Marketing Agreement or the NAESB agreements until the conclusion of the litigation with Rosetta; however, if Rosetta prevails in the litigation, Calpine has agreed it will assume the Purchase Agreement and all other agreements from the transaction. Although Calpine had not made its election to assume or reject the Purchase Agreement, on August 3, 2007, we executed a Partial Transfer and Release Agreement (“PTRA”) with Calpine, which was approved by the Bankruptcy Court on September 11, 2007, without prejudice to the other pending claims, disputes, and defenses between Calpine and us. As part of the PTRA, we agreed to enter into a new CPS marketing agreement for a period of two years, effective as of July 1, 2007, and concluding on June 30, 2009; however, the marketing agreement is subject to earlier termination by us upon the occurrence of certain events. In return, Calpine has provided documents to resolve legal title issues as to certain previously purchased oil and gas properties located in the Gulf of Mexico, California and Wyoming (“Properties”). Under the PTRA, we have also agreed to assume all liabilities with respect to those Properties, such as plugging and abandonment, as well as all liabilities and rights associated with any under- or over-payment to the State of California as it relates to certain state land. Certain of the properties we purchased from Calpine and paid Calpine for on July 7, 2005, require certain additional documentation, depending on the particular facts and circumstances surrounding the particular properties involved, such documentation was to be delivered by Calpine to quiet title related to our ownership of these properties following closing. Those properties that may still be subject to ministerial governmental action approving us as qualified assignee and operator were included as part of the Properties being addressed under the PTRA. For certain other properties, the documentation delivered by Calpine at closing was incomplete. Calpine has not made a decision on whether to perform its remaining obligations under the Purchase Agreement with us and thus perform these required further assurances as to title. On October 30, 2007, the California State Lands Commission approved Calpine’s assignment of its interests in a certain State of California lease and certain rights-of-way, completing the transfer of those properties to us and resolving open issues on an audit the State had performed on the properties. We are awaiting the final, ministerial approvals from the Mineral Management Service (“MMS”) for the assignment of Calpine’s interests in those PTRA Properties for which the federal government is the lessor. The PTRA does not otherwise address the Non-Consent Properties which Calpine withheld from the July 2005 closing due to lack of receipt of the lessors’ consents determined at that time (in many instances mistakenly) as needed for transfer and for which we withheld from the closing of the transaction with Calpine approximately $75 million of the purchase price. Until the Purchase Agreement is assumed by Calpine, we will not have record title to the interests in the leases and wells specified in the Purchase Agreement as Non-Consent Properties for which Calpine retained an ownership interest. The bankruptcy proceeding may continue to prevent, frustrate or delay our ability to receive corrective documentation from Calpine for certain properties that we paid for and bought from Calpine, in cases where Calpine delivered incomplete documentation, including documentation related to certain ministerial governmental approvals. Certain of the properties we purchased from Calpine and paid Calpine for on July 7, 2005, require certain additional documentation, depending on the particular facts and circumstances surrounding the particular properties involved. Such documentation to be delivered by Calpine to quiet title related to our ownership of these properties. Certain of these properties are subject to ministerial governmental approvals that state we are qualified assignees and operators, even though in most cases there had been a conveyance by Calpine and release of mortgages and liens by Calpine’s creditors. For certain other properties, the documentation delivered by Calpine at closing was incomplete. While we remain hopeful that Calpine will continue to work cooperatively with us to secure these ministerial governmental approvals and accomplish the curative corrections for all of these properties for which we paid Calpine, all of the same being covered, we believe, by the further assurances provision of the Purchase Agreement, that uncertainty remains pending conclusion of the Lawsuit as to the exact details for each property involved and how, when and if this will be able to be secured or accomplished. As noted above, a number of these open issues were addressed under the PTRA between us and Calpine, and we have obtained or are in the process of obtaining proper legal title as to the PTRA Properties. 14 Table of Contents Additionally, on June 29, 2006, Calpine filed a Section 365 motion in connection with its pending bankruptcy proceeding seeking entry of an order (which was granted as to the substantial portion of these leases) authorizing Calpine to assume certain oil and natural gas leases which Calpine previously sold or agreed to sell to us in the Acquisition, to the extent those leases constitute “unexpired leases of non-residential real property” and were not fully transferred to us at the time of Calpine’s filing for bankruptcy. According to this motion, Calpine filed it to avoid the automatic forfeiture of any interest it might have in these leases by operation of a statutory deadline. Calpine’s motion did not request that the Bankruptcy Court determine whether these properties belong to us or to Calpine. Generally, oil and gas leases are regarded as real property and not leases of real property despite their being called leases. If the Bankruptcy Court were to later conclude that the oil and natural gas leases are “unexpired leases of non-residential real property,” and that we had no interest in them, we may be required to take further action or pay further consideration to complete the assignments of these interests or Calpine could retain the leases. In light of Calpine’s obligations under the Purchase Agreement and rights afforded purchasers of real property, we would oppose any such request or effort. Any failure by Calpine to complete the corrective action necessary to remove title deficiencies with respect to certain of these properties, including decision of the Bankruptcy Court not to require Calpine to deliver corrective documentation or to require us to pay additional consideration, could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position or cash flows if we are not able to receive any offsetting refund of the portion of the purchase price attributable to those properties or if the amount of additional consideration we are required to pay is material. We have expended and may continue to expend significant resources in connection with Calpine’s bankruptcy. We have expended and may continue to expend significant resources in connection with Calpine’s bankruptcy. These resources include our increased costs for lawyers, consultant experts and related expenses, as well as lost opportunity costs associated with our dedicating internal resources to these matters. If we continue to expend significant resources and our management is distracted by the Calpine bankruptcy from our business and operational matters, our business, results of operations, financial position or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Oil and natural gas prices are volatile, and a decline in oil and natural gas prices would significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. Our revenue, profitability and cash flow depend substantially upon the prices and demand for oil and natural gas. The markets for these commodities are volatile and even relatively modest drops in prices can significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. Prices for oil and natural gas fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond our control, such as: · Domestic and foreign supply of oil and gas; · Price and quantity of foreign imports; · Actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; · Consumer demand; · Conservation of resources; · Regional price differentials and quality differentials of oil and natural gas; · Domestic and foreign governmental regulations, actions and taxes; · Political conditions in or affecting other oil producing and natural gas producing countries, including the current conflicts in the Middle East and conditions in South America and Russia; · Weather conditions and natural disasters; 15 Table of Contents · Technological advances affecting oil and natural gas consumption; · Overall U.S. and global economic conditions; and · Price and availability of alternative fuels. Further, oil and natural gas prices do not necessarily fluctuate in direct relationship to each other. Because the majority of our estimated proved reserves are natural gas reserves, our financial results are more sensitive to movements in natural gas prices. Lower oil and natural gas prices may not only decrease our revenues on a per unit basis but also may reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically. Thus a significant reduction in commodity prices may result in our having to make substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Development and exploration drilling activities do not ensure reserve replacement and thus our ability to produce revenue. Development and exploration drilling and strategic acquisitions are the main methods of replacing reserves. However, development and exploration drilling operations may not result in any increases in reserves for various reasons. Development and exploration drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of: · Lack of acceptable prospective acreage; · Inadequate capital resources; · Weather conditions and natural disasters; · Title problems; · Compliance with governmental regulations; · Mechanical difficulties; and · Unavailability or high cost of equipment, drilling rigs, supplies or services. Counterparty credit default could have an adverse effect on us. Our revenues are generated under contracts with various counterparties. Results of operations would be adversely affected as a result of non-performance by any of these counterparties of their contractual obligations under the various contracts. A counterparty’s default or non-performance could be caused by factors beyond our control such as a counterparty experiencing credit default. A default could occur as a result of circumstances relating directly to the counterparty, or due to circumstances caused by other market participants having a direct or indirect relationship with the counterparty. Defaults by counterparties may occur from time to time, and this could negatively impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Calpine’s recent emergence from bankruptcy reduces the likelihood of failure, but because we have taken the legal position that any rejection by Calpine of the Purchase Agreement, is also a rejection of the parties’ natural gas and sales agreements, this could result in the failure of Calpine to continue purchasing natural gas from us. We sell a significant amount of our production to one customer. In connection with the Acquisition, we entered into a natural gas purchase and sale contract with CES whose term runs through December 2009, we are obligated to sell all of the then-existing and future production from our California leases in production as of May 1, 2005 based on market prices. Calpine maintains a right of first refusal for a term of 10 years after December 31, 2009. For the month of December 2007, this dedicated California production comprised approximately 30% of our current overall production based on an equivalent basis. Additionally, under separate monthly spot agreements, we may sell some of our natural gas production to Calpine, which could increase our credit exposure to Calpine. Under the terms of our natural gas purchase and sale contract and spot agreements with Calpine, all natural gas volumes that are contractually sold to Calpine are collateralized by Calpine making margin payments one business day in arrears to our collateral account equal to the previous day’s natural gas sales. In the event of a default by Calpine, we could be exposed to the loss of up to four days of natural gas sales revenue under the contract, which at prices and volumes in effect as of December 31, 2007 would be approximately $3.1 million. Unless we replace our oil and natural gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline. Our future oil and natural gas production depends on our success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. If we fail to replace reserves through drilling or acquisitions, our level of production and cash flows will be affected adversely. In general, production from oil and natural gas properties declines as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. Our total proved reserves decline as reserves are produced. Our ability to make the necessary capital investment to maintain or expand our asset base of oil and natural gas reserves would be impaired to the extent cash flow from operations is reduced and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable. We may not be successful in exploring for, developing or acquiring additional reserves. 16 Table of Contents We will require additional capital to fund our future activities. If we fail to obtain additional capital, we may not be able to implement fully our business plan, which could lead to a decline in reserves. Future projects and acquisitions will depend on our ability to obtain financing beyond our cash flow from operations. We may finance our business plan and operations primarily with internally generated cash flow, bank borrowings, entering into exploratory arrangements with other parties and publicly or privately raised equity. In the future, we will require substantial capital to fund our business plan and operations. Sufficient capital may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. If we cannot obtain additional capital resources, we may curtail our drilling, development and other activities or be forced to sell some of our assets on unfavorable terms. The terms of our credit facilities contain a number of restrictive and financial covenants that limit our ability to pay dividends. If we are unable to comply with these covenants, our lenders could accelerate the repayment of our indebtedness. The terms of our credit facilities subject us to a number of covenants that impose restrictions on us, including our ability to incur indebtedness and liens, make loans and investments, make capital expenditures, sell assets, engage in mergers, consolidations and acquisitions, enter into transactions with affiliates, enter into sale and leaseback transactions, change our lines of business and pay dividends on our common stock. We will also be required by the terms of our credit facilities to comply with financial covenant ratios. Additionally, we have secured a written waiver from our lenders in connection with the Lawsuit based on existing events and our belief concerning those events, and have an ongoing obligation to notify our lenders of all significant developments in the Lawsuit. A more detailed description of our credit facilities is included in Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” and the footnotes to the Consolidated/Combined Financial Statements. A breach of any of the covenants imposed on us by the terms of our indebtedness, including the financial covenants and obligations associated with the Lawsuit under our credit facilities, could result in a default under such indebtedness. In the event of a default, the lenders for our revolving credit facility could terminate their commitments to us, and they and the lenders of our second lien term loan could accelerate the repayment of all of our indebtedness. In such case, we may not have sufficient funds to pay the total amount of accelerated obligations, and our lenders under the credit facilities could proceed against the collateral securing the facilities. Any acceleration in the repayment of our indebtedness or related foreclosure could adversely affect our business. Properties we acquire may not produce as expected, and we may be unable to determine reserve potential, identify liabilities associated with the properties or obtain protection from sellers against such liabilities. We continually review opportunities to acquire producing properties, undeveloped acreage and drilling prospects; however, such reviews are not capable of identifying all potential conditions. Generally, it is not feasible to review in depth every individual property involved in each acquisition. Ordinarily, we will focus our review efforts on higher value properties or properties with known adverse conditions and will sample the remainder. However, even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems or permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their condition, any deficiencies, and development potential. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as ground water contamination are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Our exploration and development activities may not be commercially successful. Exploration activities involve numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or natural gas reservoirs will be discovered. In addition, the future cost and timing of drilling, completing and producing wells is often uncertain. Furthermore, drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of a variety of factors, including: · Unexpected drilling conditions; pressure or irregularities in formations; equipment failures or accidents; · Adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes, which are common in the Gulf of Mexico during certain times of the year; compliance with governmental regulations; unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment or labor; · Reductions in oil and natural gas prices; and 17 Table of Contents · Limitations in the market for oil and natural gas. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop and exploit prospects or properties depend in part on data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often uncertain. Even when used and properly interpreted, 3-D seismic data and visualization techniques only assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators. They do not allow the interpreter to know conclusively if hydrocarbons are present or producible economically. In addition, the use of 3-D seismic and other advanced technologies requires greater pre-drilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies. Because of these factors, we could incur losses as a result of exploratory drilling expenditures. Poor results from exploration activities could have a material adverse effect on our future financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Numerous uncertainties are inherent in our estimates of oil and natural gas reserves and our estimated reserve quantities and present value calculations may not be accurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will affect materially the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. Estimates of proved oil and natural gas reserves and the future net cash flows attributable to those reserves are prepared by independent petroleum engineers and geologists. As noted above, the estimated reserve quantities and present value calculations exclude the estimates attributable to interests in certain leases and wells being a portion of the Non-Consent Properties specified in the Purchase Agreement. The estimated reserve quantities and present value calculations include properties subject to additional documentation, or completion of documentation, including ministerial actions by federal or state agencies for which we believe Calpine is contractually obligated to assist in resolving, along with certain other leases, concerning which Calpine has asserted an ownership interest under its Section 365 motion and order in the Bankruptcy Court. The estimated reserve quantities and present value calculations may be impacted depending on the outcome of the Lawsuit and whether Calpine assumes or rejects the Purchase Agreement. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and natural gas reserves and cash flows attributable to such reserves, including factors beyond our engineers control. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of an estimate of quantities of reserves, or of cash flows attributable to such reserves, is a function of the available data, assumptions regarding future oil and natural gas prices, expenditures for future development and exploration activities, engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Additionally, reserves and future cash flows may be subject to material downward or upward revisions, based upon production history, development and exploration activities and prices of oil and natural gas. As an example, Netherland Sewell’s reserve report for year end 2007 includes the downward revision for certain proved undeveloped reserves located in South Texas due to the actual production performance history for wells we have drilled in this area since the Acquisition. Actual future production, revenue, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses, underlying information, quantities of recoverable reserves and the value of cash flows from such reserves may vary significantly from the assumptions and underlying information set forth herein. In addition, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserves and cash flows based on the same available data. The present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves referred to in this Report is not necessarily the actual current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on fixed prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs fluctuate over time and may differ materially from those used in the present value estimate. In addition, discounted future net cash flows are estimated assuming royalties to the MMS, royalty owners and other state and federal regulatory agencies with respect to our affected properties, and will be paid or suspended during the life of the properties based upon oil and natural gas prices as of the date of the estimate. Since actual future prices fluctuate over time, royalties may be required to be paid for various portions of the life of the properties and suspended for other portions of the life of the properties. The timing of both the production and expenses from the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect both the timing of actual future net cash flows from our proved reserves and their present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor that we use to calculate the net present value of future net cash flows for reporting purposes in accordance with the SEC’s rules may not necessarily be the most appropriate discount factor. The effective interest rate at various times and the risks associated with our business or the oil and natural gas industry, in general, will affect the appropriateness of the 10% discount factor in arriving at an accurate net present value of future net cash flows. We are subject to the full cost ceiling limitation which may result in a write-down of our estimated net reserves. Under the full cost method, we are subject to quarterly calculations of a “ceiling” or limitation on the amount of our oil and gas properties that can be capitalized on our balance sheet. If the net capitalized costs of our oil and gas properties exceed the cost ceiling, we are subject to a ceiling test write-down of our estimated net reserves to the extent of such excess. If required, it would reduce earnings and impact stockholders’ equity in the period of occurrence and result in lower amortization expense in future periods. The discounted present value of our proved reserves is a major component of the ceiling calculation and represents the component that requires the most subjective judgments. However, the associated hedge adjusted market prices of oil and gas reserves that are included in the discounted present value of the reserves do not require judgment. The ceiling calculation dictates that prices and costs in effect as of the last day of the quarter are held constant. However, we may not be subject to a write-down if prices increase subsequent to the end of a quarter in which a write-down might otherwise be required. The risk that we will be required to write down the carrying value of oil and natural gas properties increases when natural gas and crude oil prices are depressed or volatile. In addition, write-down of proved oil and natural gas properties may occur if we experience substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. Expense recorded in one period may not be reversed in a subsequent period even though higher natural gas and crude oil prices may have increased the ceiling applicable in the subsequent period. 18 Table of Contents For the year ended December 31, 2007, there was no write-down recorded. Due to the volatility of commodity prices, should natural gas prices decline in the future, it is possible that a write-down could occur. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates for further information. Government laws and regulations can change. Our activities are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations. Extensive laws, regulations and rules relate to activities and operations in the oil and gas industry. Some of the laws, regulations and rules contain provisions for significant fines and penalties for non-compliance. Changes in laws and regulations could affect our costs of operations and our profitability. Changes in laws and regulations could also affect production levels, royalty obligations, price levels, environmental requirements, and other matters affecting our business. We are unable to predict changes to existing laws and regulations or additions to laws and regulations. Such changes could significantly impact our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial position and future growth. Our business requires a sufficient level of staff with technical expertise, specialized knowledge and training and a high degree of management experience. Our success is largely dependent our ability to attract and retain personnel with the skills and experience required for our business. An inability to sufficiently staff our operations or the loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management or of numerous employees with critical skills could have a negative effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, cash flows and future growth. Our results are subject to commodity price fluctuations related to seasonal and market conditions and reservoir and production risks. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and could be negatively impacted in the future as a result of a number of factors, including: · Seasonal variations in oil and natural gas prices; · Variations in levels of production; and · The completion of exploration and production projects. The ultimate outcome of the legal proceedings relating to our activities cannot be predicted. Any adverse determination could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Operation of our properties has generated various litigation matters arising out of the normal course of business. In connection with the transfer and assumption agreement with Calpine, we generally assumed liabilities arising from our activities from and after the Acquisition, including defense of future litigation and claims involving Calpine’s domestic oil and natural gas reserve properties conveyed in the Acquisition, other than certain litigation that Calpine and its subsidiaries retained liability or agreed to indemnify the Company by agreement. Calpine’s bankruptcy may affect its obligations for the retained liabilities and claims. The ultimate outcome of claims and litigation relating to our activities cannot presently be determined, nor can the liability that may potentially result from a negative outcome be reasonably estimated at this time for every case. The liability we may ultimately incur with respect to any one of these matters in the event of a negative outcome may be in excess of amounts currently accrued with respect to such matters and, as a result, these matters may potentially be material to our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Market conditions or transportation impediments may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. Market conditions, the unavailability of satisfactory oil and natural gas processing and transportation or the remote location of certain of our drilling operations may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. The availability of a ready market for our oil and natural gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and natural gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines or trucking and terminal facilities. In the Gulf of Mexico operations, the availability of a ready market depends on the proximity of and our ability to tie into existing production platforms owned or operated by others and the ability to negotiate commercially satisfactory arrangements with the owners or operators. Under interruptible or short term transportation agreements, the transportation of our gas may be interrupted due to capacity constraints on the applicable system, for maintenance or repair of the system or for other reasons specified by the particular agreements. We may be required to shut in natural gas wells or delay initial production for lack of a market or because of inadequacy or unavailability of natural gas pipelines or gathering system capacity. When that occurs, we are unable to realize revenue from those wells until the production can be tied to a gathering system. This can result in considerable delays from the initial discovery of a reservoir to the actual production of the oil and natural gas and realization of revenues. 19 Table of Contents Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, and many of our competitors have resources that are greater than ours. We operate in a highly competitive environment for acquiring prospects and productive properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing equipment and trained personnel. Many of our competitors, major and large independent oil and natural gas companies, possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than our resources. Those companies may be able to develop and acquire more prospects and productive properties than our financial or personnel resources permit. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and discover reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and natural gas industry. Larger competitors may be better able to withstand sustained periods of unsuccessful drilling and absorb the burden of changes in laws and regulations more easily than we can, which would adversely affect our competitive position. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oil field services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget. Our industry is cyclical and, from time to time, there is a shortage of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or qualified personnel. During these periods, the costs and delivery times of rigs, equipment and supplies are substantially greater. In addition, the demand for, and wage rates of, qualified drilling rig crews rise as the number of active rigs in service increases. As a result of increasing levels of exploration and production in response to strong prices of oil and natural gas, the demand for oilfield services has risen, and the costs of these services are increasing, while the quality of these services may suffer. If the unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or qualified personnel were particularly severe in Texas and California, we could be materially and adversely affected because our operations and properties are concentrated in those areas. Operating hazards, natural disasters or other interruptions of our operations could result in potential liabilities, which may not be fully covered by our insurance. The oil and natural gas business involves certain operating hazards such as: · Well blowouts; · Cratering; · Explosions; · Uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids; · Fires; · Hurricanes, tropical storms, earthquakes, mud slides, and flooding; · Pollution; and · Releases of toxic gas. The occurrence of one of the above may result in injury, loss of life, property damage, suspension of operations, environmental damage and remediation and/or governmental investigations and penalties. In addition, our operations in California are especially susceptible to damage from natural disasters such as earthquakes and fires and involve increased risks of personal injury, property damage and marketing interruptions. Any of these operating hazards could cause serious injuries, fatalities or property damage, which could expose us to liabilities. The payment of any of these liabilities could reduce, or even eliminate, the funds available for exploration, development, and acquisition, or could result in a loss of our properties. Our insurance policies provide limited coverage for losses or liabilities relating to pollution, with broader coverage for sudden and accidental occurrences. Our insurance might be inadequate to cover our liabilities. For example, we are not fully insured against earthquake risk in California because of high premium costs. Insurance covering earthquakes or other risks may not be available at premium levels that justify its purchase in the future, if at all. In addition, we are subject to energy package insurance coverage limitations related to any single named windstorm. The insurance market in general and the energy insurance market in particular have been difficult markets over the past several years. Insurance costs are expected to continue to increase over the next few years and we may decrease coverage and retain more risk to mitigate future cost increases. If we incur substantial liability and the damages are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits, or if we incur a liability at a time when we are not able to obtain liability insurance, then our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Because of the expense of the associated premiums and the perception of risk, we do not have any insurance coverage for any loss of production as may be associated with these operating hazards. 20 Table of Contents Environmental matters and costs can be significant. The oil and natural gas business is subject to various federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to discharge of materials into, and protection of, the environment. Such laws and regulations may impose liability on us for pollution clean-up, remediation, restoration and other liabilities arising from or related to our operations. Any noncompliance with these laws and regulations could subject us to material administrative, civil or criminal penalties or other liabilities. Additionally, our compliance with these laws may, from time to time, result in increased costs to our operations or decreased production. We also may be liable for environmental damages caused by the previous owners or operators of properties we have purchased or are currently operating. The cost of future compliance is uncertain and is subject to various factors, including future changes to laws and regulations. We have no assurance that future changes in or additions to the environmental laws and regulations will not have a significant impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and future growth. Our acquisition strategy could fail or present unanticipated problems for our business in the future, which could adversely affect our ability to make acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits of those acquisitions. Our growth strategy includes acquiring oil and natural gas businesses and properties if favorable economics and strategic objectives can be served. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities or finance and complete any particular acquisition successfully. Furthermore, acquisitions involve a number of risks and challenges, including: · Division of management’s attention; · The need to integrate acquired operations; · Potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies; · Potential lack of operating experience in a geographic market of the acquired business; and · An increase in our expenses and working capital requirements. Any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to achieve anticipated levels of cash flows from the acquired businesses and properties or realize other anticipated benefits of those acquisitions. We are vulnerable to risks associated with operating in the Gulf of Mexico. Our operations and financial results could be significantly impacted by unique conditions in the Gulf of Mexico because we explore and produce extensively in that area. As a result of this activity, we are vulnerable to the risks associated with operating in the Gulf of Mexico, including those relating to: · Adverse weather conditions and natural disasters; · Oil field service costs and availability; · Compliance with environmental and other laws and regulations; · Remediation and other costs resulting from oil spills or releases of hazardous materials; and · Failure of equipment or facilities. 21 Table of Contents Further, production of reserves from reservoirs in the Gulf of Mexico generally decline more rapidly than from fields in many other producing regions of the world. This results in recovery of a relatively higher percentage of reserves from properties in the Gulf of Mexico during the initial years of production, and as a result, our reserve replacement needs from new prospects may be greater there than for our operations elsewhere. Also, our revenues and return on capital will depend significantly on prices prevailing during these relatively short production periods. Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains. We have entered into natural gas price hedging arrangements with respect to a significant portion of our expected production through 2009. Such transactions may limit our potential gains if oil and natural gas prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the hedge. In addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which our production is less than expected, there is a widening of price differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the hedge arrangement, or the counterparties to our hedging agreements fail to perform under the contracts. We have also entered into a series of interest rate swap agreements to hedge the change in the variable interest rates associated with our debt under our credit facility. If interest rates should fall below the rate established in the hedge, we could be exposed to losses associated with these hedges. The historical financial results of the domestic oil and natural gas business of Calpine may not be representative of our results as a separate company. The combined historical financial information included in this Report does not necessarily reflect what our financial position, results of operations and cash flows would have been had we been a separate, stand-alone entity during the periods presented. The costs and expenses reflect charges from Calpine for centralized corporate services and infrastructure costs. The allocations were determined based on Calpine’s methodologies. This combined historical financial information is not necessarily indicative of what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows will be in the future. Our prior and continuing relationship with Calpine exposes us to risks attributable to Calpine’s businesses and credit worthiness. We acquired a business that previously was integrated within Calpine and is subject to liabilities and risk for activities of businesses of Calpine other than the acquired business. In connection with our separation from Calpine, Calpine and certain of its subsidiaries have agreed to retain and indemnify us for certain liabilities. Third parties may seek to hold us responsible for some or all of those retained liabilities. Any claims made against us that are properly attributable to Calpine and certain of its subsidiaries will require us to exercise our rights under the indemnification provisions of the Purchase Agreement to obtain payment from them. We are exposed to the risk that, in these circumstances and in light of the Lawsuit, any or all of Calpine and certain of its subsidiaries cannot or will not make the required payment. If this were to occur, our business and results of operations, financial position or cash flow could be adversely affected. If we are unable to obtain governmental approvals arising from the Acquisition and the PTRA, we may not acquire all of Calpine’s domestic oil and gas business. The consummation of the Acquisition required various approvals, filings and recordings with governmental entities to transfer existing contracts and arrangements as well as all of Calpine’s domestic oil and gas properties to us. In addition, all government issued permits and licenses that are important to our business, including permits issued by the City of Rio Vista and Counties of Sacramento, Solano and Contra Costa, California, may require reapplication or application by us and reissuance or issuance in our name. Some of the required permits, licenses and approvals have been obtained or received, but certain others remain outstanding. In connection with the PTRA, we have submitted the required documents and are waiting for ministerial approvals from the MMS. If we are unable to obtain a reissuance or issuance of any contract, license or permit being transferred or the required approvals as operator and/or lessee, as to certain oil and gas properties, our business and results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be adversely affected. The SEC informal inquiry relating to the downward revision of the estimate of continuing proved reserves, while owned by Calpine, could have a material adverse effect on the presentation of our predecessor financial statements. In April 2005, the staff of the Division of Enforcement of the SEC commenced an informal inquiry into the facts and circumstances relating to the downward revision of the estimate of continuing proved natural gas reserves at December 31, 2004, while the domestic oil and natural gas properties were owned by Calpine. Calpine has advised us that it is fully cooperating with this informal inquiry which also involved two other non-oil and natural gas related matters, and we have separately agreed with Calpine that we will also fully cooperate. Calpine has not advised us of any change in the inactive status of the SEC’s informal inquiry in this regard. Our understanding is that Calpine has not had any further response or inquiry from the SEC staff in regard to this matter since July 2005 and that the ultimate outcome of this inquiry cannot presently be determined. However, it is possible that the staff of the SEC could conclude that the estimate of continuing proved reserves as of December 31, 2004, as revised, requires further downward revision, which could have a material adverse effect on the presentation of our predecessor financial statements. 22 Table of Contents Future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline, which could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional common or preferred stock. Stock sales and purchases by institutional investors or stockholders with significant holdings could have significant influence over our stock volatility and our corresponding ability to raise capital through debt or equity offerings. Because institutional investors have the ability to trade in large volumes of shares of our common stock, the price of our common stock could be subject to significant volatility, which could adversely affect the market price for our common stock as well as limit our ability to raise capital or issue additional equity in the future. You may experience dilution of your ownership interests because of the future issuance of additional shares of our common and preferred stock. We may in the future issue our previously authorized and unissued equity securities, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our present stockholders and purchasers of common stock offered hereby. We are currently authorized to issue an aggregate of 155,000,000 shares of capital stock consisting of 150,000,000 shares of common stock and 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock with preferences and rights as determined by our Board of Directors. As of December 31, 2007, 50,998,073 shares of common stock were issued, including 899,150 shares of restricted stock issued to certain employees and directors. The majority of these shares vest over a three year period. Of the restricted stock that has been granted, 443,725 shares had vested as of December 31, 2007 and the remaining shares will vest no later than 2012. Pursuant to our 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan, we have reserved 3,000,000 shares of our common stock for issuance as restricted stock, stock options and/or other equity based grants to employees and directors. In addition, we have issued 1,062,600 options to purchase common stock issued to certain employees and directors, of which 90,000 have been exercised as of December 31, 2007. The potential issuance of additional shares of common stock may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. We may also issue additional shares of our common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for common stock in connection with the hiring of personnel, future acquisitions, future issuance of our securities for capital raising purposes, or for other business purposes. Provisions under Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. The existence of some provisions under Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could delay or prevent a change in control of the Company, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Delaware law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws prohibit our stockholders from taking action by written consent absent approval by all members of our Board of Directors. Further, our stockholders do not have the power to call a special meeting of stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None Item 