ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before making an investment decision. Our business, prospects, financial condition, or operating results could be harmed by any of these risks, as well as other risks not currently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and, as a result, you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We have experienced losses and negative cash flow since our inception, and we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability or positive cash flow in the future. We experienced net losses of $19.2 million for 2009, $25.8 million for 2010, and $23.5 million for 2011, respectively, and have an accumulated deficit of $100.4 million as of December 31, 2011. We have not generally achieved positive cash flow from our operations or reported net income, and we do not expect to be profitable for the foreseeable future. We expect to continue making significant expenditures to develop and expand our business, including for advertising, customer acquisition, technology infrastructure, storage capacity, product development, and international expansion, in an effort to increase and service our customer base. In 2011, we incurred increased expenses associated with relocating our customer service operations from India to the U.S., which adversely affected our operating results for 2011. In 2012, we expect to continue to incur increased expenses associated with the relocation of one of our data centers to a new facility. We also expect that our quarterly results may fluctuate due to a variety of factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the timing and amount of our advertising expenditures, which are seasonal, as well as the 9 Table of Contents timing and amount of expenditures related to the development of technologies and solutions and to defend intellectual property infringement and other claims. In addition, as a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses, including increased costs for director and officer liability insurance that we did not incur as a private company. We may also incur increased losses and negative cash flow in the future for a number of reasons, and we may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications, delays, and other unknown events. For these reasons, we expect to continue to record net losses for the next several years and we may not be able to achieve or maintain positive cash flow from operations or profitability. Any significant disruption in our service or loss or misuse of our customers’ data could damage our reputation and harm our business and operating results. Our brand, reputation, and ability to attract, retain, and serve our customers are dependent upon the reliable performance of our service and our customers’ ability to readily access their stored files. Our customers rely on our online backup service to store digital copies of their valuable data files, including financial records, business information, photos, and other personally meaningful content. Our data centers are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, intentional bad acts, computer viruses or hackers, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, war, terrorist attacks, power losses, hardware failures, systems failures, telecommunications failures, and similar events, any of which could limit our customers’ ability to access their files and could prevent us from being able to continuously back up our customers’ files. Prolonged delays or unforeseen difficulties in connection with adding storage capacity or upgrading our network architecture when required may cause our service quality to suffer. A breach of our network security and systems could also cause the loss or public disclosure of, or access by third parties to, our customers’ stored files. Any event that significantly disrupts our service or exposes our customers’ stored files to misuse could damage our reputation and harm our business and operating results, including reducing our revenue, causing us to issue credits to customers, subjecting us to potential liability, harming our renewal rates, or increasing our cost of acquiring new customers. The market for online backup solutions is competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our operating results could be harmed. We compete with both online backup providers and providers of traditional hardware-based backup systems. The market for online backup solutions is competitive and rapidly changing. We directly compete with Prosoftnet, CrashPlan, Mozy (a division of VMWare), Norton Online Backup (provided by Symantec), McAfee Online Backup, SOS Online Backup, and others. Certain of our features, including our remote access service, also compete with current or potential services offered by Apple, Google, Microsoft, Amazon, and others. Certain of our planned features, including the ability to share data with third parties, also compete with current or potential services offered by DropBox, Mozy, SugarSync, and others. With the introduction of new technologies and market entrants, we expect competition to intensify in the future. Many of our actual and potential competitors benefit from competitive advantages over us, such as greater name recognition, longer operating histories, more varied services, larger marketing budgets, established marketing relationships, access to larger customer bases, major distribution agreements with computer manufacturers, internet service providers and resellers, and greater financial, technical, and other resources. Some of our competitors may make acquisitions or enter into strategic relationships to offer a more comprehensive service than we do. These combinations may make it more difficult for us to compete effectively. We expect these trends to continue as competitors attempt to strengthen or maintain their market positions. Demand for our online backup solutions is sensitive to price. Many factors, including our advertising, customer acquisition and technology costs, and our current and future competitors’ pricing and marketing strategies, can significantly affect our pricing strategies. Certain of our competitors offer, or may in the future offer, lower-priced or free products or services that compete with our solutions. Similarly, certain competitors may use internet-based marketing strategies that enable them to acquire customers at a lower cost than us. There can be no assurance that we will not be forced to engage in price-cutting initiatives, or to increase our advertising 10 Table of Contents and other expenses to attract and retain customers in response to competitive pressures, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and operating results. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects. We have been in existence since 2005, and our revenue has grown rapidly from $8.2 million in 2008 to $60.5 million in 2011, representing a compound annual growth rate of 95% over that period. We do not expect that this growth rate will continue in future periods and you should not rely on the revenue growth of any prior quarterly or annual periods as an indication of our future performance. In addition, because we recognize revenue from customers over the terms of their subscriptions, a large portion of our revenue for each quarter reflects deferred revenue from subscriptions entered into during previous quarters, and downturns or upturns in subscription sales or renewals may not be reflected in our operating results until later periods. We may not achieve sufficient revenue to achieve or maintain positive cash flow from operations or profitability, and our limited operating history may make it difficult for you to evaluate our current business and our future prospects. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries, including increasing expenses as we continue to grow our business. If we do not manage these risks successfully, our business will be harmed. If our future growth fails to meet investor or analyst expectations, it could have a negative effect on our stock price. If our growth rate were to decline significantly or become negative, it could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. A decline in demand for our solutions or for online backup solutions in general could cause our revenue to decline. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, substantially all of our revenue from the sale of our online backup solutions, a relatively new and rapidly changing market. As a result, widespread acceptance and use of online backup solutions is critical to our future growth and success. If the market for online backup solutions fails to grow or grows more slowly than we currently anticipate, demand for our solutions could be negatively affected. Changes in customer preferences for online backup solutions may have a disproportionately greater impact on us than if we offered multiple products and services. The market for online backup solutions is subject to rapidly changing customer demand and trends in preferences. Some of the potential factors that could affect interest in and demand for online backup solutions include: • awareness of our brand and the online backup solutions category generally; • the appeal and reliability of our solutions; • the price, performance, features, and availability of products and services that compete with ours; • public concern regarding privacy and data security; • our ability to maintain high levels of customer satisfaction; and • the rate of growth in online solutions generally. In addition, substantially all of our revenue is currently derived from customers in the U.S. Consequently, a decrease of interest in and demand for online backup solutions in the U.S. could have a disproportionately greater impact on us than if our geographic mix of revenue was less concentrated. If we are unable to attract new customers to our solutions on a cost-effective basis, our revenue and operating results would be adversely affected. We generate substantially all of our revenue from the sale of subscriptions to our solutions. In order to grow, we must continue to attract a large number of customers on a cost-effective basis, many of whom have not previously used online backup solutions. We use and periodically adjust a diverse mix of advertising and 11 Table of Contents marketing programs to promote our solutions. Significant increases in the pricing of one or more of our advertising channels would increase our advertising costs or cause us to choose less expensive and perhaps less effective channels. As we add to or change the mix of our advertising and marketing strategies, we may need to expand into channels with significantly higher costs than our current programs, which could adversely affect our operating results. Currently, we rely significantly on advertising endorsements by certain radio personalities. The loss of one or more of these endorsement arrangements or our inability to obtain additional effective endorsements could adversely affect our advertising and customer acquisition efforts and our operating results. We may incur advertising and marketing expenses significantly in advance of the time we anticipate recognizing any revenue generated by such expenses, and we may only at a later date, or never, experience an increase in revenue or brand awareness as a result of such expenditures. We have made in the past, and may make in the future, significant investments to test new advertising, and there can be no assurance that any such investments will lead to the cost-effective acquisition of additional customers. If we are unable to maintain effective advertising programs, our ability to attract new customers could be adversely affected, our advertising and marketing expenses could increase substantially, and our operating results may suffer. A portion of our potential customers locate our website through search engines, such as Google, Bing, and Yahoo!. Our ability to maintain the number of visitors directed to our website is not entirely within our control. If search engine companies modify their search algorithms in a manner that reduces the prominence of our listing, or if our competitors’ search engine optimization efforts are more successful than ours, fewer potential customers may click through to our website. In addition, the cost of purchased listings has increased in the past and may increase in the future. A decrease in website traffic or an increase in search costs could adversely affect our customer acquisition efforts and our operating results. A significant portion of our customers first try our online backup solutions through free trials. We seek to convert these free trial users to paying customers of our solutions. If our rate of conversion suffers for any reason, our revenue may decline and our business may suffer. If we are unable to retain our existing customers, our revenue and operating results would be adversely affected. If our efforts to satisfy our existing customers are not successful, we may not be able to retain them, and as a result, our revenue and ability to grow would be adversely affected. We may not be able to accurately predict future trends in customer renewals. Customers choose not to renew their subscriptions for many reasons, including if customer service issues are not satisfactorily resolved, a desire to reduce discretionary spending, or a perception that they do not use the service sufficiently, the service is a poor value, or that competitive services provide a better value or experience. If our customer retention rate decreases, we may need to increase the rate at which we add new customers in order to maintain and grow our revenue, which may require us to incur significantly higher advertising and marketing expenses than we currently anticipate, or our revenue may decline. A significant decrease in our customer retention rate would therefore have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. If we are unable to develop additional solutions for mobile devices, or if users of these devices do not widely adopt our solutions, our business could be adversely affected. The number of people who access the internet through devices other than personal computers, including mobile telephones, personal digital assistants, smartphones, and handheld tablets or computers, has increased dramatically in the past few years and is projected to continue to increase. In addition, people are increasingly using their mobile devices to create and store data and other content that is important to them. We have not launched any version of our service that will back up data stored on these devices. If one or more of our competitors were to launch such a service, or if we were to be unsuccessful in an attempt to launch such a service, our competitive position could be materially harmed. As new devices and new platforms are continually 12 Table of Contents being released, it is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in developing versions of our solutions for use on these mobile devices, and we may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support, and maintenance of such services, which could adversely affect our operating results. If we are unable to expand our base of SMB customers, our business could be adversely affected. In 2010, we introduced the first version of our backup solution targeted toward SMBs, which are generally companies that are too small to have a dedicated in-house IT staff. We are committing substantial resources to the expansion and increased marketing of our SMB offerings. If we are unable to market and sell our solutions to SMBs with competitive pricing and in a cost-effective manner, our ability to grow our revenue and achieve profitability will be harmed. We expect it will be more difficult and expensive to attract and retain SMB customers than consumers, because SMBs: • may have different or much more complex needs than those of individual consumers, such as archiving, version control, enhanced security requirements and other forms of encryption and authentication, which our solutions may not adequately address; • frequently cease operations due to the sale or failure of their business; and • are difficult to reach without using more expensive, targeted sales campaigns. In addition, SMBs frequently have limited budgets and are more likely to be significantly affected by economic downturns than larger, more established companies. As a result, they may choose to spend funds on items other than our solutions, particularly during difficult economic times. If we are unsuccessful in meeting the needs of potential SMB customers, it could adversely affect our future growth and operating results. If we are unable to improve market recognition of and loyalty to our brand, or if our reputation were to be harmed, we could lose customers or fail to increase the number of our customers, which could harm our revenue, operating results, and financial condition. Given our consumer and SMB market focus, maintaining and enhancing the Carbonite brand is critical to our success. We believe that the importance of brand recognition and loyalty will increase in light of increasing competition in our markets. We plan to continue investing substantial resources to promote our brand, both domestically and internationally, but there is no guarantee that our brand development strategies will enhance the recognition of our brand. Some of our existing and potential competitors have well-established brands with greater recognition than we have. If our efforts to promote and maintain our brand are not successful, our operating results and our ability to attract and retain customers may be adversely affected. In addition, even if our brand recognition and loyalty increases, this may not result in increased use of our solutions or higher revenue. Our offerings, as well as those of our competitors, are regularly reviewed in computer and business publications. Negative reviews, or reviews in which our competitors’ products and services are rated more highly than our solutions, could negatively affect our brand and reputation. From time-to-time, our customers express dissatisfaction with our solutions, including, among other things, dissatisfaction with our customer support, our billing policies, our handling of personal data, and the way our solutions operate. If we do not handle customer complaints effectively, our brand and reputation may suffer, we may lose our customers’ confidence, and they may choose not to renew their subscriptions. In addition, many of our customers participate in online blogs about computers and internet services, including our solutions, and our success depends in part on our ability to generate positive customer feedback through such online channels where consumers seek and share information. If actions we take or changes we make to our solutions upset these customers, their blogging could negatively affect our brand and reputation. Complaints or negative publicity about our solutions or billing practices could adversely impact our ability to attract and retain customers and our business, financial condition, and operating results. 13 Table of Contents The termination of our relationship with any major credit card company would have a severe, negative impact on our ability to collect revenue from customers. Increases in credit card processing fees would increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our operating results. Substantially all of our customers purchase our solutions online with credit cards, and our business depends upon our ability to offer credit card payment options. The termination of our ability to process payments on any major credit card would significantly impair our ability to operate our business and significantly increase our administrative costs related to customer payment processing. If we fail to maintain our compliance with the data protection and documentation standards adopted by the major credit card issuers and applicable to us, these issuers could terminate their agreements with us, and we could lose our ability to offer our customers a credit card payment option. If these issuers increase their credit card processing fees because we experience excessive chargebacks or refunds or for other reasons, it could adversely affect our business and operating results. Any significant disruption in service on our websites or in our computer systems could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers, which would harm our business and operating results. Our brand, reputation, and ability to attract, retain and serve our customers are dependent upon the reliable performance of our websites, network infrastructure and payment systems, and our customers’ ability to readily access their stored files. We have experienced interruptions in these systems in the past, including server failures that temporarily slowed down our websites’ performance and our customers’ ability to access their stored files, or made our websites and infrastructure inaccessible, and we may experience interruptions in the future. Interruptions in these systems, whether due to system failures, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, or other factors, could affect the security or availability of our websites and infrastructure and prevent us from being able to continuously back up our customers’ data or our customers from accessing their data. In addition, prolonged delays or unforeseen difficulties in connection with adding storage capacity or upgrading our network architecture when required may cause our service quality to suffer. While we believe that there are alternative suppliers who could meet our needs, we currently depend primarily on one provider of disk storage systems for our data centers. Problems with the reliability or security of our systems could harm our reputation. Damage to our reputation and the cost of remedying these problems could negatively affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. Our systems provide redundancy at the disk level, but do not keep separate, redundant copies of backed up customer files. Instead, we rely on the fact that our customers, in effect, back up our system by maintaining the primary instance of their files. We do not intend to create redundant backup sites for our solutions. As such, a total failure of our systems, or the failure of any of our systems, could result in the loss of or a temporary inability to back up our customers’ data and result in our customers being unable to access their stored files. If one of our data centers fails at the same time that our customers’ computers fail, we would be unable to provide backed up copies of their data. If this were to occur, our reputation could be compromised and we could be subject to liability to the customers that were affected. Our data centers are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, intentional bad acts, pandemics, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, war, terrorist attacks, power losses, hardware failures, systems failures, telecommunications failures, and similar events. As all of our data facilities are located in a single metropolitan area, we may be more susceptible to the risk that a single event could significantly harm the operations of these facilities. The occurrence of a natural disaster, power failure or an act of terrorism, vandalism or other misconduct, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice, or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events could damage our systems and hardware or could cause them to fail completely, and our insurance may not cover such events or may be insufficient to compensate us for the potentially significant losses, including the potential harm to the future growth of our business, that may result from interruptions in our service as a result of system failures. 14 Table of Contents We depend on data centers operated by third parties and any disruption in the operation of these facilities could adversely affect our business. We host our services and serve all of our customers from our network servers, which are located in data center facilities operated by third parties. While we control and have access to our servers and all of the components of our network that are located in our external data centers, we do not control the operation of these facilities. Our data center leases expire at various times between August 2013 and January 2016, and a separate data center hosting arrangement is cancellable by us upon 120 days notice. The owners of our data center facilities have no obligation to renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to renew these agreements on commercially reasonable terms, we may be required to transfer our servers to new data center facilities, and we may incur significant costs and possible service interruption in connection with doing so. During the first half of 2012, we intend to relocate our equipment and operations from our Boston, Massachusetts data center to one of our other data centers and to discontinue the use of our Boston, Massachusetts data center. We will incur moving and other costs in connection with this transition. Any operational difficulties or disruptions we experience in connection with this transition could adversely affect our reputation and operating results. Problems faced by our third-party data center locations, with the telecommunications network providers with whom we or they contract, or with the systems by which our telecommunications providers allocate capacity among their customers, including us, could adversely affect the experience of our customers. Our third-party data centers operators could decide to close their facilities without adequate notice. In addition, any financial difficulties, such as bankruptcy, faced by our third-party data centers operators or any of the service providers with whom we or they contract may have negative effects on our business, the nature and extent of which are difficult to predict. Additionally, if our data centers are unable to keep up with our growing needs for capacity, this could have an adverse effect on our business. Any changes in third-party service levels at our data centers or any errors, defects, disruptions, or other performance problems with our services could harm our reputation and may damage our customers’ stored files. Interruptions in our services might reduce our revenue, cause us to issue refunds to customers, subject us to potential liability, or harm our renewal rates. If the security of our customers’ confidential information stored in our systems is breached or their stored files are otherwise subjected to unauthorized access, our reputation and business may be harmed, and we may be exposed to liability. Our customers rely on our online system to store digital copies of their files, including financial records, business information, photos, and other personally meaningful content. We also store credit card information and other personal information about our customers. A breach of our network security and systems or other events that cause the loss or public disclosure of, or access by third parties to, our customers’ stored files could have serious negative consequences for our business, including possible fines, penalties and damages, reduced demand for our solutions, an unwillingness of customers to provide us with their credit card or payment information, an unwillingness of our customers to use our solutions, harm to our reputation and brand, loss of our ability to accept and process customer credit card orders, and time-consuming and expensive litigation. Third parties may be able to circumvent our security by deploying viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that are designed to attack or attempt to infiltrate our systems and networks and we may not immediately discover these attacks or attempted infiltrations. Further, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce our employees, consultants, or affiliates to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our information or our customers’ information. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently, often are not recognized until launched against a target, and may originate from less regulated or remote areas around the world. As a result, we may be unable to proactively address these techniques or to implement adequate preventative or reactionary measures. In addition, employee or consultant error, malfeasance, or other errors in the storage, use, or transmission of personal information could result in a breach of customer or employee privacy. We maintain insurance coverage to mitigate the potential financial impact of these risks; however, our insurance may not cover all such events or may be insufficient to compensate 15 Table of Contents us for the potentially significant losses, including the potential damage to the future growth of our business, that may result from the breach of customer or employee privacy. Many states have enacted laws requiring companies to notify individuals of data security breaches involving their personal data. These mandatory disclosures regarding a security breach often lead to widespread negative publicity, which may cause our customers to lose confidence in the effectiveness of our data security measures. Any security breach, whether successful or not, would harm our reputation and could cause the loss of customers. Similarly, if a well-publicized breach of data security at any other online backup service provider or other major consumer website were to occur, there could be a general public loss of confidence in the use of the internet for online backup services or commercial transactions generally. Any of these events could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, and operating results. We process, store and use personal information and other data, which subjects us to governmental regulation and other legal obligations related to privacy, and our actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations could harm our business. We receive, store, and process personal information and other customer data. There are numerous federal, state, local, and foreign laws regarding privacy and the storing, sharing, use, processing, disclosure and protection of personal information and other customer data, the scope of which are changing, subject to differing interpretations, and may be inconsistent among countries or conflict with other rules. We generally seek to comply with industry standards and are subject to the terms of our privacy policies and privacy-related obligations to third parties. We strive to comply with all applicable laws, policies, legal obligations and industry codes of conduct relating to privacy and data protection to the extent possible. However, it is possible that these obligations may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another and may conflict with other rules or our practices. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with our privacy policies, our privacy-related obligations to customers or other third parties, or our privacy-related legal obligations, or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release or transfer of personally identifiable information or other customer data, may result in governmental enforcement actions, litigation, or public statements against us by consumer advocacy groups or others and could cause our customers to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. Our customers may also accidentally disclose their passwords or store them on a mobile device which is lost or stolen, creating the perception that our systems are not secure against third party access. Additionally, if third parties we work with, such as vendors or developers, violate applicable laws or our policies, such violations may also put our customers’ information at risk and could in turn have an adverse effect on our business. Any significant change to applicable laws, regulations or industry practices regarding the use or disclosure of our customers’ data, or regarding the manner in which the express or implied consent of customers for the use and disclosure of such data is obtained, could require us to modify our services and features, possibly in a material manner, and may limit our ability to develop new services and features that make use of the data that our customers voluntarily share with us. We may not be able to respond to rapid technological changes with new solutions, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The online backup market is characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new product and service introductions. Our ability to attract new customers and increase revenue from existing customers will depend in large part on our ability to enhance and improve our existing solutions, introduce new features and products and sell into new markets. Customers may require features and capabilities that our current solutions do not have. Our failure to develop solutions that satisfy customer preferences in a timely and cost-effective manner may harm our ability to renew our subscriptions with existing customers and create or increase demand for our solutions, and may adversely impact our operating results. The introduction of new services by competitors or the development of entirely new technologies to replace existing offerings could make our solutions obsolete or adversely affect our business and operating results. In 16 Table of Contents addition, any new markets or countries into which we attempt to sell our solutions may not be receptive. We may experience difficulties with software development, design, or marketing that could delay or prevent our development, introduction, or implementation of new solutions and enhancements. We have in the past experienced delays in the planned release dates of new features and upgrades, and have discovered defects in new solutions after their introduction. There can be no assurance that new solutions or upgrades will be released according to schedule, or that when released they will not contain defects. Either of these situations could result in adverse publicity, loss of revenue, delay in market acceptance, or claims by customers brought against us, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, operating results, and financial condition. Moreover, upgrades and enhancements to our solutions may require substantial investment and we have no assurance that such investments will be successful. If customers do not widely adopt enhancements to our solutions, we may not be able to realize a return on our investment. If we are unable to develop, license, or acquire enhancements to our existing solutions on a timely and cost-effective basis, or if such enhancements do not achieve market acceptance, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to do so in the future. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of research analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our quarterly operating results or guidance fall below the expectations of research analysts or investors, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. The following factors, among others, could cause fluctuations in our quarterly operating results or guidance: • our ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers; • our ability to accurately forecast revenue and appropriately plan our expenses; • our ability to introduce new solutions; • the actions of our competitors, including pricing changes or the introduction of new products; • our ability to effectively manage our growth; • the mix of annual and multi-year subscriptions at any given time; • seasonal variations or other cyclicality in the demand for our solutions, including the purchasing and budgeting cycles of our SMB customers; • the timing and cost of advertising and marketing efforts; • the timing and cost of developing or acquiring technologies, services, or businesses; • the timing, operating cost, and capital expenditures related to the operation, maintenance, and expansion of our business; • service outages or security breaches and any related impact on our reputation; • our ability to successfully manage any future acquisitions of businesses, solutions, or technologies; • the impact of worldwide economic, industry, and market conditions and those conditions specific to internet usage and online businesses; • costs associated with defending intellectual property infringement and other claims; and • changes in government regulation affecting our business. We believe that our quarterly revenue and operating results may vary significantly in the future and that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. You should not rely on the results of one quarter as an indication of future performance. 17 Table of Contents Seasonal variations in our business may also cause fluctuations in our financial results. For example, we generally spend more on advertising during the first and third quarters of each year to capitalize on lower advertising rates in these periods and increased sales of devices that create or store data during post-holiday and back to school periods and our bookings tend to be higher in these periods. While we believe that these seasonal trends have affected and will continue to affect our quarterly results, our trajectory of rapid growth may have overshadowed these effects to date. We believe that our business may become more seasonal in the future as our growth rate slows, and that such seasonal variations in advertising expenditures and customer purchasing patterns may result in fluctuations in our financial results. Growth may place significant demands on our management and our infrastructure. We have experienced substantial growth in our business. This growth has placed and may continue to place significant demands on our management and our operational and financial infrastructure. As our operations grow in size, scope, and complexity, we will need to improve and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to attract, service, and retain an increasing number of customers. The expansion of our systems and infrastructure will require us to commit substantial financial, operational, and technical resources in advance of an increase in the volume of business, with no assurance that the volume of business will increase. Any such additional capital investments will increase our cost base. Continued growth could also strain our ability to maintain reliable service levels for our customers, develop and improve our operational, financial and management controls, enhance our reporting systems and procedures, and recruit, train, and retain highly skilled personnel. If we fail to achieve the necessary level of efficiency in our organization as we grow, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be harmed. We may expand by acquiring or investing in other companies, which may divert our management’s attention, result in additional dilution to our stockholders, and consume resources that are necessary to sustain our business. We may in the future acquire complementary products, services, technologies, or businesses. For example, in June 2011, we acquired substantially all of the assets of Phanfare, Inc., a privately-held provider of photo sharing services, for approximately $2 million in cash and the assumption of certain liabilities. We also may enter into relationships with other businesses to expand our portfolio of solutions or our ability to provide our solutions in foreign jurisdictions, which could involve preferred or exclusive licenses, additional channels of distribution, discount pricing, or investments in other companies. We do not have experience with integrating and managing acquired businesses or assets. Negotiating these transactions can be time-consuming, difficult and expensive, and our ability to complete these transactions may often be subject to conditions or approvals that are beyond our control. Consequently, these transactions, even if undertaken and announced, may not close. An acquisition, investment, or new business relationship may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. In particular, we may encounter difficulties assimilating or integrating the businesses, technologies, products, personnel, or operations of acquired companies, particularly if the key personnel of the acquired company choose not to work for us, the company’s software is not easily adapted to be compatible with ours, or we have difficulty retaining the customers of any acquired business due to changes in management or otherwise. Acquisitions may also disrupt our business, divert our resources, and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for the development of our business. Moreover, the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, investment, or business relationship may not be realized or we may be exposed to unknown liabilities, including litigation against the companies we may acquire. For one or more of those transactions, we may: • issue additional equity securities that would dilute our stockholders; • use cash that we may need in the future to operate our business; • incur debt on terms unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay or that may place burdensome restrictions on our operations; 18 Table of Contents • incur large charges or substantial liabilities; or • become subject to adverse tax consequences, or substantial depreciation, deferred compensation or other acquisition-related accounting charges. Any of these risks could harm our business and operating results. The loss of one or more of our key personnel, or our failure to attract, integrate, and retain other highly qualified personnel, could harm our business. We depend on the continued service and performance of our key personnel, including David Friend, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Jeffry Flowers, our Chief Architect. We do not have long-term employment agreements with any of our officers or key employees. In addition, many of our key technologies and systems are custom-made for our business by our personnel. The loss of key personnel, including key members of our management team, as well as certain of our key marketing, sales, product development, or technology personnel, could disrupt our operations and have an adverse effect on our ability to grow our business. In addition, several of our key personnel have only recently been employed by us, and we are still in the process of integrating these personnel into our operations. Our failure to successfully integrate these key employees into our business could adversely affect our business. To execute our growth plan, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for these employees is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. New hires require significant training and, in most cases, take significant time before they achieve full productivity. Our recent hires and planned hires may not become as productive as we expect, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have. In addition, in making employment decisions, particularly in the internet and high-technology industries, job candidates often consider the value of the stock options they are to receive in connection with their employment. In addition, employees may be more likely to leave us if the shares they own or the shares underlying their vested options have significantly appreciated in value relative to the original purchase prices of the shares or the exercise prices of the options, or if the exercise prices of the options that they hold are significantly above the market price of our common stock. If we fail to attract new personnel, or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and growth prospects could be severely harmed. Our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture as we grow, we could lose the innovation, creativity, and teamwork fostered by our culture, and our business may be harmed. We believe that our corporate culture has been a key contributor to our success. If we do not continue to develop our corporate culture as we grow and evolve, including maintaining our culture of transparency with our employees, it could harm our ability to foster the innovation, creativity, and teamwork we believe that we need to support our growth. As our organization grows and we are required to implement more complex organizational structures, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain the beneficial aspects of our corporate culture, which could negatively impact our future success. In addition, our recently completed initial public offering could create disparities of wealth among our employees, which could adversely impact relations among employees and our corporate culture in general. Our operating results may be harmed if we are required to collect sales or other related taxes for our subscription services in jurisdictions where we have not historically done so. We do not believe that we are required to collect sales, use, or other similar taxes from our customers. However, one or more states or countries may seek to impose sales, use, or other tax collection obligations on us, 19 Table of Contents including for past sales by us or our resellers and other partners. A successful assertion by a state, country, or other jurisdiction that we should have or should be collecting sales, use, or other taxes on our services could, among other things, result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, create significant administrative burdens for us, discourage customers from purchasing our services, or otherwise harm our business and operating results. Our ability to use net operating losses to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations. As of December 31, 2011, we had federal, state, and foreign net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs, of $89.0 million, $83.9 million and $1.0 million, respectively, available to offset future taxable income, which expire in various years through 2032 if not utilized. A lack of future taxable income would adversely affect our ability to utilize these NOLs before they expire. Under the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Internal Revenue Code, substantial changes in our ownership may limit the amount of pre-change NOLs that can be utilized annually in the future to offset taxable income. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, or Section 382, imposes limitations on a company’s ability to use NOLs if a company experiences a more-than-50-percent ownership change over a three-year testing period. We performed an analysis of our changes in ownership through December 31, 2011 and have adjusted our NOLs as of that date to reflect the usage limitations, calculated in accordance with Section 382, resulting from such changes in ownership. If additional changes in our ownership occur in the future, our ability to use NOLs may be further limited. For these reasons, we may not be able to utilize a material portion of the NOLs, even if we achieve profitability. If we are limited in our ability to use our NOLs in future years in which we have taxable income, we will pay more taxes than if we were able to fully utilize our NOLs. This could adversely affect our operating results and the market price of our common stock. Any expenses or liability resulting from litigation could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. From time to time, we may be subject to claims or litigation, including intellectual property litigation as described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any such claims or litigation may be time-consuming and costly, divert management resources, require us to change our services, require us to refund subscription fees, or have other adverse effects on our business. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and could require us to pay significant monetary damages. In addition, we receive and must respond on a periodic basis to subpoenas from law enforcement agencies seeking copies of a customer’s data stored on our servers in connection with criminal investigations. While we have in place a procedure to respond to such subpoenas, any failure on our part to properly respond to such subpoena requests could expose us to litigation or other proceedings and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. Our success depends on our customers’ continued high-speed access to the internet and the continued reliability of the internet infrastructure. Our business depends on our customers’ high-speed access to the internet, as well as the continued maintenance and development of the internet infrastructure. The future delivery of our solutions will depend on third party internet service providers to expand high-speed internet access, to maintain a reliable network with the necessary speed, data capacity and security, and to develop complementary products and services, including high-speed modems, for providing reliable and timely internet access and services. All of these factors are out of our control. To the extent that the internet continues to experience an increased number of users, frequency of use, or bandwidth requirements, the internet may become congested and be unable to support the demands placed on it, and its performance or reliability may decline. Any internet outages or delays could adversely affect our ability to provide services to our customers. 20 Table of Contents Our business may be significantly impacted by a change in the economy, including any resulting effect on consumer spending. Our business may be affected by changes in the economy generally, including any resulting effect on consumer spending. Our services are discretionary purchases, and our customers may reduce their discretionary spending on our services during an economic downturn. Although we have not yet experienced a material reduction in subscription renewals, we may experience such a reduction in the future, especially in the event of a prolonged recessionary period. Conversely, media prices may increase in a period of economic growth, which could significantly increase our marketing and advertising expenses. As a result, our business, financial condition, and operating results may be significantly affected by changes in the economy generally. We face many risks associated with our plans to expand internationally, which could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. We anticipate that our efforts to expand internationally will entail the marketing and advertising of our services and brand and the development of localized websites. We do not have substantial experience in selling our solutions in international markets or in conforming to the local cultures, standards, or policies necessary to successfully compete in those markets, and we must invest significant resources in order to do so. We may not succeed in these efforts or achieve our customer acquisition or other goals. For some international markets, customer preferences and buying behaviors may be different, and we may use business or pricing models that are different from our traditional subscription model to provide online backup and related services to customers. Our revenue from new foreign markets may not exceed the costs of establishing, marketing, and maintaining our international offerings, and therefore may not be profitable on a sustained basis, if at all. In addition, conducting international operations subjects us to new risks that we have not generally faced in the U.S. These risks include: • localization of our solutions, including translation into foreign languages and adaptation for local practices and regulatory requirements; • lack of experience in other geographic markets; • strong local competitors; • cost and burden of complying with, lack of familiarity with, and unexpected changes in foreign legal and regulatory requirements, including consumer and data privacy laws; • difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates or restrictions on foreign currency; • potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of transfer pricing, foreign value added or other tax systems, double taxation and restrictions and/or taxes on the repatriation of earnings; • dependence on third parties, including channel partners with whom we do not have extensive experience; • compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, economic sanction laws and regulations, export controls, and other U.S. laws and regulations regarding international business operations; • increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; • political, social, and economic instability abroad, terrorist attacks, and security concerns in general; and • reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. Operating in international markets also requires significant management attention and financial resources. The investment and additional resources required to establish operations and manage growth in other countries may not produce desired levels of revenue or profitability. 21 Table of Contents Our software contains encryption technologies, certain types of which are subject to U.S. and foreign export control regulations and, in some foreign countries, restrictions on importation and/or use. Any failure on our part to comply with encryption or other applicable export control requirements could result in financial penalties or other sanctions under the U.S. export regulations, including restrictions on future export activities, which could harm our business and operating results. Regulatory restrictions could impair our access to technologies that we seek for improving our solutions and may also limit or reduce the demand for our solutions outside of the U.S. We may not be able to maintain control of our business in China. The government of the People’s Republic of China, or PRC, restricts foreign investment in internet and online advertising businesses. Accordingly, we operate our online backup business in China through an affiliated entity in China owned by an individual designated by us who is a PRC citizen. We have entered into contractual arrangements with our affiliated entity and its individual stockholder that are intended to protect our technologies and business. We have loaned funds to the designated individual in order to enable the individual to form the affiliated entity and obtain any necessary licenses, including an Internet Content Provider (ICP) license, which was recently granted by the PRC government, and we expect to continue to loan funds to the designated individual in the future. All loans are, and will continue to be, secured by the capital stock of the affiliated entity and the designated individual stockholder has granted us the contractual right to exercise his rights as the sole stockholder of the affiliated entity. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to enforce these contracts. We have no equity ownership interest in the affiliated entity and we rely on contractual arrangements with the entity and the designated individual stockholder to control and operate the entity. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing control over the affiliated entity as direct ownership. For example, the entity could fail to take actions required for, or beneficial to, our business or fail to maintain our websites despite its contractual obligations to do so. In addition, we cannot assure you that the individual shareholder of the affiliated entity will always act in our best interests. If the individual stockholder of our affiliated entity fails to perform his obligations under the respective agreements with us, we may need to engage in litigation in China to enforce our rights, which may be time-consuming and costly, divert management resources, or have other adverse effects on our business, and we may not be successful in enforcing our rights. Enforcing agreements and laws in China is difficult and may be impossible because China does not have a comprehensive system of laws. In China, enforcement of contractual agreements may be sporadic, and implementation and interpretation of laws may be inconsistent. The PRC judiciary is relatively inexperienced in interpreting agreements and enforcing China’s laws, leading to a higher than usual degree of uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. Even where adequate law exists in China, it may not be possible to obtain swift and equitable enforcement of such law, or to obtain enforcement of a judgment or an arbitration award by a court of another jurisdiction. The PRC government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every aspect of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Many of the current reforms that support private business in China are of recent origin or are provisional in nature. Other political, economic and social factors, such as political changes, changes in the rates of economic, growth, unemployment, or inflation, or in the disparities of per capita wealth among citizens of China and between regions within China, could also lead to further readjustment of the PRC government’s reform measures. It is not possible to predict whether the PRC government will continue to be as supportive of private business in China, nor is it possible to predict how any future reforms will affect our business. Specifically, the laws and regulations governing our business or the enforcement and performance of our proposed contractual arrangements with our affiliated Chinese entity and the designated individual stockholder are relatively new and may be subject to change, and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. New laws and regulations that affect our business may also be applied retroactively. We 22 Table of Contents cannot assure you that the PRC government would agree that the operating arrangements of our affiliated Chinese entity comply with PRC licensing, registration, or other regulatory requirements, with existing policies, or with requirements or policies that may be adopted in the future. For example, in September 2011, the PRC Ministry of Commerce stated that the relevant departments of the PRC government are jointly considering additional regulation of the type of investment structure that we use, which is based on the approach used by other non-PRC companies with respect to their conduct of businesses that require an ICP license. If the PRC government determines that we do not comply with applicable law, it could revoke our business and operating licenses and those of our affiliated Chinese entity, including our affiliated entity’s ICP license, require us to restructure our operations, require us to discontinue or restrict our operations, restrict our right to collect revenue, block our websites, impose additional conditions or requirements with which we may not be able to comply, impose restrictions on our business operations or on our customers, or take other regulatory or enforcement actions against us that could be harmful to our business. In addition, because of the particular weakness of the Chinese intellectual property regime, it is often difficult to create and enforce intellectual property rights in China. Accordingly, we may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights in China against infringement by other business entities, individuals, and current or former employees. Risks Related to Intellectual Property Assertions by a third party that our solutions infringe its intellectual property, whether or not correct, could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation or expensive licenses. We are currently a defendant in a lawsuit alleging patent infringement. There is frequent litigation in the software and technology industries based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Many companies are devoting significant resources to obtaining patents that could affect many aspects of our business. Third parties may claim that our technologies or solutions infringe or otherwise violate their patents or other intellectual property rights. As we face increasing competition and become increasingly visible as a publicly-traded company, or if we become more successful, the possibility of new third party claims may increase. We have licensed proprietary technologies from third parties that we use in our technologies and business, and we cannot be certain that the owners’ rights in their technologies will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented. If we are forced to defend ourselves against intellectual property infringement claims, whether they have merit or are determined in our favor, we may face costly litigation, diversion of technical and management personnel, limitations on our ability to use our current websites and technologies, and an inability to market or provide our solutions. As a result of any such claim, we may have to develop or acquire non-infringing technologies pay damages, enter into royalty or licensing agreements, cease providing certain services, adjust our marketing and advertising activities, or take other actions to resolve the claims. These actions, if required, may be costly or unavailable on terms acceptable to us or at all. Furthermore, we may acquire proprietary technologies from third parties and may incorporate such technologies in our solutions. In addition to the general risks described above associated with intellectual property and other proprietary rights, we are subject to the additional risk that the seller of such technologies may not have appropriately created, maintained, or enforced such rights in such technology. In August 2010 Oasis Research, LLC, or Oasis Research, filed a lawsuit against us and several of our competitors and other online technology companies in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, alleging that our online backup storage services and other companies’ products or services infringe certain of Oasis Research’s patents. Oasis Research seeks an award for damages in an unspecified amount. Oasis Research does not currently seek an injunction. We expect that a trial date will be set for late 2012 or early 2013. We are not able to assess with certainty the outcome of this litigation or the amount or range of potential damages or future payments associated with this litigation at this time. However, any litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and there can be no assurance that the expenses associated with defending this lawsuit or its resolution will not have a material adverse impact on our business, operations, financial condition, or cash flows. 23 Table of Contents Our success depends in large part on our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. If we are not able to adequately protect our intellectual property and proprietary technologies to prevent use or appropriation by our competitors, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, and our business may be adversely affected. Our future success and competitive position depend in large part on our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technologies. We rely on a combination of trademark, patent, copyright, and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions, to establish and protect our proprietary rights, all of which provide only limited protection and may not now or in the future provide us with a competitive advantage. CARBONITE and the Carbonite logo are registered trademarks in the U.S. and in over 30 other countries, including countries in the European Union. We have also filed trademark applications for additional marks in the U.S. and other countries, including “Back it up. Get it Back”, “Because Your Life is On Your Computer”, the Carbonite Green Dot logo and Chinese character representations for Carbonite. We cannot assure you that any future trademark registrations will be issued for pending or future applications or that any registered trademarks will be enforceable or provide adequate protection of our proprietary rights. We have one issued patent, 12 patent applications pending, and we are in the process of filing additional patent applications. We cannot assure you that any patents will issue from any such patent applications, that patents that issue from such applications will give us the protection that we seek, or that any such patents will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented. Any patents that may issue in the future from our pending or future patent applications may not provide sufficiently broad protection and may not be enforceable in actions against alleged infringers. There can be no assurance that the steps we take will be adequate to protect our technologies and intellectual property, that our trademark and patent applications will lead to registered trademarks or issued patents, that others will not develop or patent similar or superior technologies, products, or services, or that our trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by others. Furthermore, effective trademark, patent, copyright, and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our services are available or where we have employees or independent contractors. In addition, the legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability, and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. We may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, which could be expensive and time consuming and could materially harm our business. The steps we have taken and will take to protect our intellectual property may not prevent unauthorized use, reverse engineering, or misappropriation of our technologies and we may not be able to detect any of the foregoing. Others may independently develop technologies that are competitive to ours or infringe our intellectual property. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file patent infringement claims, which can be expensive and time-consuming to litigate. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop others from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patent(s) do not cover such technology. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not being issued. If our efforts to protect our technologies and intellectual property are inadequate, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished and competitors may be able to mimic our solutions and methods of operations. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure. In addition, during the course of any such litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions, or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock. 24 Table of Contents Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of our trade secrets and proprietary information. Failure to protect our proprietary information could make it easier for third parties to compete with our solutions and harm our business. We have devoted substantial resources to the development of our proprietary technologies and related processes. In order to protect our proprietary technologies and processes, we rely in part on trade secret laws and confidentiality agreements with our employees, licensees, independent contractors, and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets, in which case we would not be able to assert trade secret rights, or develop similar technologies and processes. Further, laws in certain jurisdictions may afford little or no trade secret protection, and any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the intellectual property laws in any country in which we operate may compromise our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure or inability to obtain or maintain trade secret protection or otherwise protect our proprietary rights could adversely affect our business. Our use of “open source” software could negatively affect our ability to sell our solutions and subject us to possible litigation. A portion of the technologies licensed by us to our customers incorporates so-called “open source” software, and we may incorporate open source software in the future. Such open source software is generally licensed by its authors or other third parties under open source licenses. These licenses may subject us to certain unfavorable conditions, including requirements that we offer our solutions that incorporate the open source software for no cost, that we make publicly available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon, incorporating, or using the open source software, and/or that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of the particular open source license. Additionally, if a third party software provider has incorporated open source software into software that we license from such provider, we could be required to disclose any of our source code that incorporates or is a modification of such licensed software. If an author or other third party that distributes open source software that we use or license were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of the applicable license, we could be required to incur significant legal expenses defending against such allegations and could be subject to significant damages, enjoined from the sale of our solutions that contained the open source software, and required to comply with the foregoing conditions. Any of the foregoing could disrupt the distribution and sale of our solutions and harm our business. We rely on third party software, including server software and licenses from third parties to use patented intellectual property, that is required to develop and provide our solutions. We rely on software licensed from third parties to develop and offer our solutions, including server software from Microsoft and other patented third-party technologies. In addition, we may need to obtain future licenses from third parties to use intellectual property associated with the development of our solutions, which might not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Any loss of the right to use any software required for the development and maintenance of our solutions could result in delays in the provision of our solutions until equivalent technology is either developed by us, or, if available from others, is identified, obtained, and integrated, which could harm our business. Any errors or defects in third party software could result in errors or a failure of our solutions, which could harm our business. If we are unable to protect our domain names, our reputation, brand, customer base, and revenue, as well as our business and operating results, could be adversely affected. We have registered domain names for websites, or URLs, that we use in our business, such as www.carbonite.com. If we are unable to maintain our rights in these domain names, our competitors or other third parties could capitalize on our brand recognition by using these domain names for their own benefit. In 25 Table of Contents addition, although we own the Carbonite domain name under various global top level domains such as .com and .net, as well as under various country-specific domains, we might not be able to, or may choose not to, acquire or maintain other country-specific versions of the Carbonite domain name or other potentially similar URLs. Domain names similar to ours have already been registered in the U.S. and elsewhere, and our competitors or other third parties could capitalize on our brand recognition by using domain names similar to ours. The regulation of domain names in the U.S. and elsewhere is generally conducted by internet regulatory bodies and is subject to change. If we lose the ability to use a domain name in a particular country, we may be forced to either incur significant additional expenses to market our solutions within that country, including the development of a new brand and the creation of new promotional materials, or elect not to sell our solutions in that country. Either result could substantially harm our business and operating results. Regulatory bodies could establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars, or modify the requirements for holding domain names. As a result, we may not be able to acquire or maintain the domain names that utilize the name Carbonite in all of the countries in which we currently conduct or intend to conduct business. Further, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights varies among jurisdictions and is unclear in some jurisdictions. We may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring and using domain names that infringe, are similar to, or otherwise decrease the value of, our brand or our trademarks. Protecting and enforcing our rights in our domain names and determining the rights of others may require litigation, which could result in substantial costs, divert management attention, and not be decided favorably to us. Material defects or errors in our software could harm our reputation, result in significant costs to us, and impair our ability to sell our solutions. The software applications underlying our solutions are inherently complex and may contain material defects or errors, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. We have from time to time found defects or errors in our solutions, and new defects or errors in our existing solutions may be detected in the future by us or our customers. The costs incurred in correcting such defects or errors may be substantial and could harm our operating results. In addition, we rely on hardware purchased or leased and software licensed from third parties to offer our solutions. Any defects in, or unavailability of, our or third party software or hardware that cause interruptions to the availability of our solutions could, among other things: • cause a reduction in revenue or delay in market acceptance of our solutions; • require us to issue refunds to our customers or expose us to claims for damages; • cause us to lose existing customers and make it more difficult to attract new customers; • divert our development resources or require us to make extensive changes to our solutions or software, which would increase our expenses; • increase our technical support costs; and • harm our reputation and brand. Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile due to fluctuations in our operating results and other factors, each of which could cause our stock price to decline. Shares of our common stock were sold in our initial public offering in August 2011 at a price of $10.00 per shares, and our common stock has subsequently traded as high as $21.10 and as low as $8.21. An active, liquid, and orderly market for our common stock may not be developed or sustained, which could depress the trading price of our common stock. The market price for shares of our common stock could be subject to 26 Table of Contents significant fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. Some of the factors that may cause the market price for shares of our common stock to fluctuate include: • fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our key operating metrics, financial condition, and operating results; • loss of existing customers or inability to attract new customers; • actual or anticipated changes in our growth rate; • announcements of technological innovations or new offerings by us or our competitors; • our announcement of actual results for a fiscal period that are lower than projected or expected or our announcement of revenue or earnings guidance that is lower than expected; • changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; • failure of any of our solutions to achieve or maintain market acceptance; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • success of competitive products or services; • changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of debt; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant products or services, contracts, acquisitions, or strategic alliances; • regulatory developments in the U.S. or foreign countries; • actual or threatened litigation involving us or our industry; • additions or departures of key personnel; • general perception of the future of the online backup market or our solutions; • share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our shares; • sales of our shares of common stock by us or our stockholders; and • changes in general economic, industry, and market conditions. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for internet-related companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the overall market and in the market price of a company’s securities. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in very substantial costs, divert our management’s attention and resources, and harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, recent fluctuations in the financial and capital markets have resulted in volatility in securities prices. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could harm our operating results, our ability to operate our business, and investors’ views of us. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place so that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be evaluated frequently. As part of our process of documenting and testing our internal control over financial reporting, we may identify areas for further attention and improvement. Implementing any appropriate changes to 27 Table of Contents our internal controls may distract our officers and employees, entail substantial costs to modify our existing processes, and take significant time to complete. These changes may not, however, be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal controls, and any failure to maintain that adequacy, or consequent inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase our operating costs and harm our business. In addition, investors’ perceptions that our internal controls are inadequate or that we are unable to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis may harm our stock price and make it more difficult for us to effectively market and sell our solutions to new and existing customers. Our failure to raise additional capital or generate the cash flows necessary to expand our operations and invest in our business could reduce our ability to compete successfully. Although we currently anticipate that our available funds, including the net proceeds of our initial public offering and our available bank line of credit, will be sufficient to meet our cash needs for at least the next 12 months, we may require additional financing in the future. Our ability to obtain financing will depend, among other things, on our development efforts, business plans, operating performance and condition of the capital markets at the time we seek financing. If we need to raise additional funds, we may not be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, if at all. If we raise additional equity financing, our stockholders may experience significant dilution of their ownership interests, and the per share value of our common stock could decline. If we engage in debt financing, we may be required to accept terms that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness and force us to maintain specified liquidity or other ratios. If we need additional capital and cannot raise it on acceptable terms, we may not be able to, among other things: • develop or enhance our solutions; • continue to expand our development, sales, and marketing organizations; • acquire complementary technologies, products, or businesses; • expand our operations in the U.S. or internationally; • hire, train, and retain employees; • respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated working capital requirements; or • continue our operations. A significant portion of our total outstanding shares may be sold into the public market in the near future, which could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In connection with the expiration on February 26, 2012 of lock-up agreements entered into with the underwriters of our initial public offering, approximately 17.9 million shares of our common stock became eligible from sale by stockholders, subject to applicable volume and other limitations under federal securities laws. In August 2011, we filed a Form S-8 under the Securities Act registering 5,177,658 shares of our common stock for issuance under our equity incentive plans. These shares may be sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to the terms of contractual restrictions. If these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the market price of our common stock could decline. We also may issue shares of our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock from time to time in connection with financing, acquisition, investment, or otherwise. Any such issuance could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our directors, executive officers, and principal stockholders have substantial control over us and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control. Our directors, executive officers, and holders of more than 5% of our common stock, together with their affiliates, hold a majority of our outstanding shares of common stock and have the ability to control the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and any merger, 28 Table of Contents consolidation, or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these stockholders, acting together, may have the ability to control or influence the management and affairs of our company. This concentration of ownership could limit your ability to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business, or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our stock adversely, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts may publish about us, our business, our market, or our competitors. If any of the analysts who cover us change their recommendation regarding our stock adversely, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, our stock price would likely decline. If any analyst who covers us were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Our management will continue to have broad discretion over the use of the proceeds we received in our initial public offering and might not apply the proceeds in ways that increase the value of your investment. Our management will continue to have broad discretion to use our net proceeds from our initial public offering, and you will be relying on the judgment of our management regarding the application of these proceeds. Our management might not apply these proceeds in ways that increase the value of your investment. We intend to use the net proceeds to us from the initial public offering primarily for general corporate purposes, including working capital, sales and marketing activities, general and administrative matters, and capital expenditures. We may also use a portion of the net proceeds to acquire, invest in, or obtain rights to complementary technologies, solutions, or businesses. Until we use the net proceeds to us from the initial public offering, we plan to invest them, and these investments may not yield a favorable rate of return. If we do not invest or apply the net proceeds from the initial public offering in ways that enhance stockholder value, we may fail to achieve expected financial results, which could cause our stock price to decline. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not intend to do so for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth and continuing operations. In addition, the provisions of our revolving credit facility prohibit us from paying cash dividends. Therefore, you are not likely to receive any dividends on your shares of common stock for the foreseeable future and the success of an investment in shares of our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in their value. Our common stock may not appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our stockholders have purchased their shares. Anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in our management without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms, which may delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our board of directors; 29 Table of Contents • no cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates; • the exclusive right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death, or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; • the ability of our board of directors to determine to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer; • a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders; • the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, the chief executive officer, or the board of directors, which may delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; • limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; • controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of stockholder meetings; • providing the board of directors with the express power to postpone previously scheduled annual meetings of stockholders and to cancel previously scheduled special meetings of stockholders; • providing that directors may be removed prior to the expiration of their terms by stockholders only for cause; and • advance notice procedures that stockholders must comply with in order to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquiror from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquiror’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. These provisions, alone or together, could delay hostile takeovers and changes in control of our company or changes in our management. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prevents some stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding common stock. Any provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 