Risk Factors. The success of our recent investments in the automotive alternative fuel transportation business in the United States is contingent on the growth of the gaseous alternative fuel industry in the United States. We recently expanded our automotive alternative fuel transportation activities in the United States by acquiring two businesses. The return on our investments is dependent among other factors on the expansion of the United States market for vehicles that operate on gaseous alternative fuels. If this market does not expand, the revenues and profits generated by these investments may not justify the purchase prices that we paid for them. Reduced consumer or corporate spending due to weakness in the financial markets and uncertainties in the economy, domestically and internationally, may materially and adversely affect our revenue, operating results and cash flows. We depend on demand from the consumer, OEM, contract manufacturing, industrial, automotive and other markets we serve for the end market applications that use our products and services. All of these markets have been, and may continue to be, affected by the recent instability in global financial markets that have caused extreme economic disruption. Reductions in consumer or corporate demand for our products and services as a result of uncertain conditions in the macroeconomic environment, such as volatile energy prices, inflation, fluctuations in interest rates, difficulty securing credit, extreme volatility in security prices, diminished liquidity, mortgage failures, or other economic factors, may materially and adversely affect our revenue, operating results and cash flows. Negative economic conditions may also materially impact our customers, suppliers and other parties with which we do business. Economic and financial market conditions that adversely affect our customers may cause them to terminate existing purchase orders, reduce the volume of products they purchase from us in the future or seek price concessions. In connection with the sale of products, we normally do not require collateral as security for customer receivables and do not purchase credit insurance. We may have significant balances owing from customers who operate in cyclical industries or who may not be able to secure sufficient credit in order to honor their obligations to us. Failure to collect a significant portion of amounts due on those receivables could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Adverse economic and financial market conditions may also cause our suppliers to be unable to provide materials and components to us or may cause suppliers to make changes in the credit terms they extend to us, such as shortening the required payment period for our amounts owing them or reducing the maximum amount of trade credit available to us. While we have not yet experienced changes of this type, they could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. If we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and financial markets conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for, and respond to, those changes, and we could be materially and adversely affected. We maintain a significant investment in inventory and have recently made significant investments in the expansion of our operations to meet recent increases in demand for our product without long-term contracts with customers. A decline in our customers’ purchases would lead to a decline in our revenue and could result in a decrease in our operating results and cash flows. We do not have long-term contracts with our customers. Generally, our product sales are made on a purchase order basis, which allows our customers to reduce or discontinue their purchases from us. Accordingly, we cannot predict the timing, frequency or size of our future customer orders. Our ability to accurately forecast our sales is further complicated by the current global economic and financial uncertainty. We maintain significant inventories at BRC Group, the principal operating company in our transportation division, in an effort to ensure that our European transportation customers have a reliable source of supply. Our total inventory at December 31, 2010 was $85.9 million, a decrease of $4.5 million compared to our total inventory at December 31, 2009, nonetheless, if we fail to anticipate the changing needs of our customers and accurately forecast our customer demands, our existing and potential customers may not place orders with us, which would 9 Table of Contents decrease our revenue, and we may accumulate significant inventories of products that we will be unable to sell which may result in a significant decline in the value of our inventory. As a result, our revenue, gross profit and other operating results and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, during 2009, we expanded our operational capacity, including opening new facilities in Italy, to address increased demand for our fuel systems components and systems, and in 2010, we have increased substantially our investment in research and development. We may continue to make significant investments in our business without any guarantees or long-term commitments from our customers that they will continue to purchase our components and systems with the same timing, frequency and size as we expect. As a result, if there is insufficient demand for our components and systems, we may not recover the costs of any increased investment in our operations, which could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. The development of our business is dependent on the availability of gaseous fueling infrastructure Many countries, including the United States, currently have limited or no infrastructure to deliver natural gas and propane to consumers. In the United States, alternative fuels such as natural gas currently cannot be readily obtained by consumers for motor vehicle use, and only a small percentage of motor vehicles manufactured for the United States are equipped to use alternative fuels. Users of gaseous fuel vehicles may not be able to obtain fuel conveniently and affordably, which may adversely affect the demand for our products and services. We cannot assure you that the United States or global market for gaseous fuel engines will expand broadly or, if it does, that it will result in increased sales of our fuel system products. An expansion of OEM offering of gaseous fuel vehicles employing internally developed OEM technology would likely result in a decrease in our revenue and profit margins. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from the sale of gaseous fuel systems and components to automobile OEMs. An expansion in the offering of OEM gaseous fuel vehicles employing internally developed OEM technology could reduce demand for our systems and components and would likely have a negative impact on our revenue and profits. We currently face, and will continue to face, significant competition, which could materially and adversely affect us. We currently compete with companies that manufacture products to convert liquid-fueled internal combustion engines to gaseous fuels. Our competitors in the future may have greater name recognition, larger customer bases, broader global reach and a wider array of product lines, as well as greater financial resources and access to capital than we have. We are also subject to competition from other alternative fuels and alternative fuel technologies, including ethanol, electric and hybrid electric and fuel cells, and we cannot assure you that such technologies will not be favored over gaseous fuel technologies in the future. We also cannot assure you that our competitors will not create new and improved innovative gaseous fuel technologies. Increases in the market for alternative fuel vehicles may cause automobile or engine manufacturers to develop and produce their own fuel conversion or fuel management equipment rather than purchasing the equipment from suppliers such as us or to employ competing technologies. Further, greater acceptance of alternative fuel engines may result in new competitors. Should any of these events occur, either alone or in combination, the total potential demand for, and pricing of, our products could be negatively affected and cause us to lose business, which could materially and adversely affect us. New technologies could render our existing products obsolete and materially and adversely affect us. New developments in technology may negatively affect the development or sale of some or all of our products or make our products obsolete. Our inability to enhance existing products in a timely manner or to develop and introduce new products that incorporate new technologies, conform to increasingly stringent 10 Table of Contents emission standards and performance requirements, and achieve market acceptance in a timely manner could negatively impact our competitive position and may materially and adversely affect us. New product development or modification is costly, involves significant research, development, time and expense and may not necessarily result in the successful commercialization of any new products. Fluctuation in oil or natural gas prices may result in a decline in the demand for our products and services, which would materially and adversely affect our revenue, operating results and cash flows. We believe that our sales in recent years have been favorably impacted by changes in consumer demand prompted by rising oil prices and concern over potential increases in oil prices. Conversely, when oil prices decrease and remain low or continue to decrease, it may result in a decline of the demand for our products and services. In addition, volatility in the price of natural gas may have an equal though opposite impact on the demand for our products and services. The potential decline in the demand for our products and services caused by these price fluctuations could materially and adversely affect our revenue, operating results and cash flows. Our business is directly and significantly affected by regulations relating to reducing vehicle emissions. If current regulations are repealed or if the implementation of current regulations is suspended or delayed, our revenue, operating results and cash flows may decrease significantly. If regulations relating to vehicle emissions are amended in a manner that may allow for more lenient standards, or if the implementation of such currently existing standards is delayed or suspended, the demand for our products and services could diminish, and our revenue, operating results and cash flows could decrease significantly. In addition, demand for our products and services may be adversely affected by the perception that emission regulations will be suspended or delayed. Accordingly, we rely on stricter emissions regulations, the adoption of which are out of our control and cannot be assured, to stimulate our growth. We are subject to governmental certification requirements and other regulations, and more stringent regulations in the future may impair our ability to market our products. We must obtain product certification from governmental agencies, such as the Environmental Protection Agency and the California Air Resources Board, to sell certain of our products in the United States and must obtain other product certification requirements in Europe and other regions. A significant portion of our future revenue will depend upon sales of fuel management products that are certified to meet existing and future air quality and energy standards. We cannot assure you that our products will meet these standards in the future. We incur significant research and developments costs to ensure that our products comply with emissions standards and meet certification requirements in the countries where our products are sold. Our failure to comply with certification requirements could result in the recall of our products and civil or criminal penalties. Any new government regulation that affects our alternative fuel technologies, whether at the foreign, federal, state, or local level, including any regulations relating to installation and service of these systems, may increase our costs and the price of our systems and adversely affect the effectiveness of the related technologies. As a result, these regulations could materially and adversely affect us. Changes in tax policies and governmental incentives may reduce or eliminate the economic benefits that make our products attractive to consumers, which could materially and adversely affect us. In some jurisdictions and from time to time, government authorities may provide tax benefits and incentives for clean-air vehicles, including tax credits, rebates and reductions in applicable tax rates. In certain of our markets, these benefits extend to vehicles powered by our systems and create economic benefits for our customers. Changes in these tax benefits or incentives, such as the expiration at the end of 2009 of the Italian government’s economic incentives for the purchase of new dual fuel consumer automobiles, may reduce or eliminate the economic benefits that make our products attractive to customers, which could materially and 11 Table of Contents adversely affect us. Government authorities in some countries may from time to time use fuel prices as an instrument of fiscal policy and taxation may vary for different types of fuels, including gaseous fuels. Changes in taxation can affect the retail prices for alternative fuels which can negatively impact the attractiveness of our products. Some of our foreign subsidiaries have done, and may continue to do, business in countries subject to U.S. sanctions and embargoes, including Iran, and we have limited managerial oversight over those activities. Some of our foreign subsidiaries sell fuel delivery systems, related parts and accessories to customers in Iran, a country that is currently subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government and the United Nations and a country identified by the U.S. government as a terrorist-sponsoring state. Some of our foreign subsidiaries may in the future make sales to other countries subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government. Although these sanctions and embargoes do not prohibit our foreign subsidiaries from selling products and providing services in Iran and these other countries, they do prohibit Fuel Systems and our domestic subsidiaries, as well as employees of our foreign subsidiaries who are U.S. citizens, from participating in, approving or otherwise facilitating any aspect of the business activities in Iran and these other countries. The constraints on our ability to have U.S. persons, including our senior management, provide managerial oversight and supervision over business activities in Iran and other U.S. sanctioned countries may negatively affect the financial or operating performance of such activities. We believe we have procedures in place to conduct these activities in compliance with applicable U.S. laws. Our foreign subsidiaries may also make sales to countries subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the European Union. These E.U. sanctions, as well as U.S. sanctions, are complex. We believe we have procedures in place to conduct foreign operations without violating E.U. sanctions. However, if we fail to comply with U.S. laws or E.U. sanctions in our foreign operations, we could be subject to material fines and penalties and incur damage to our reputation, which may lead to a reduction in the market price of our common stock. In addition, our foreign subsidiaries’ activities in Iran and other U.S. or E.U. sanctioned countries could reduce demand for our common stock among certain of our investors for political reasons. Recent Iranian sanction laws and regulations have adversely affected our revenues and may cause us other adverse consequences. On June 9, 2010, the United Nations Security Council by Resolution voted to impose a new and expanded round of sanctions against Iran. On July 27, 2010, the European Union implemented the UN Resolution. On July 1, 2010, President Obama signed into law the new Comprehensive Iran Sanctions and Accountability and Divestment Act of 2010. Moreover, in response to the UN Resolution, other countries around the world have also strengthened and expended laws and regulations imposing sanctions against Iran. This new and expanded round of laws and regulations imposing sanctions on Iran has adversely impacted our revenues derived from Iran. We can offer no assurance that any further expansion of Iranian sanctions will not further adversely affect our revenues and cause us other adverse consequences. Currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations may have a material adverse effect on our revenue and overall financial results. For the year ended December 31, 2010, non-U.S. operations accounted for approximately 83.2% of our revenue. Most revenues and expenses of our non-U.S. operations are in local currency. Our financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, therefore, gains and losses on the conversion of foreign currency denominated expenses into U.S. dollars could cause fluctuations in our operating results, and fluctuating exchange rates could cause significantly reduced revenue and gross margins from non-U.S. dollar-denominated revenue, which could materially and adversely affect our overall financial results. Also, for the year ended December 31, 2010, Euro denominated revenue accounted for approximately 71.2% of our total revenue; therefore a substantial appreciation in the rate of exchange of the U.S. dollar against the Euro could have a significant adverse affect on our financial results. 12 Table of Contents We currently do not engage in financial hedging against these risks and may not in the future be able to hedge against these risks. Adverse currency fluctuations may hinder our ability to economically procure key materials and services from overseas vendors and suppliers and may adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. Because of our significant operations outside of the United States, we engage in business relationships and transactions that involve many different currencies. Exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the local currencies in these foreign locations where we do business can vary unpredictably. These variations may have an effect on the prices we pay for key materials and services from overseas vendors in our functional currencies under agreements that are priced in local currencies. If the rate of the U.S. dollar depreciates against local currencies, our effective costs for such materials and services would increase, adversely affecting our operating results and cash flows. We engage in related party transactions, which could result in a conflict of interest involving our management. We have engaged in the past, and continue to engage, in a significant number of related party transactions, specifically between the Company’s foreign subsidiaries and members of the family of our Chief Executive Officer, Director and largest stockholder, his brother Pier Antonio Costamagna (one of our executive officers who is Managing Director of BRC Group, the principal operating company in our transportation division, and Director of Mechanical Engineering of MTM, S.r.L., a wholly owned subsidiary of BRC), companies in which our Chief Executive Officer’s family has controlling or other ownership interests, companies that our employees and service providers own in whole or in part and former owners of the companies we have purchased in foreign countries. Many of these relationships stem from the fact that when we acquired these foreign subsidiaries they were privately owned and such transactions are not uncommon in privately owned companies. Our Board, its Audit Committee and its Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee seek to review on an ongoing basis related party transactions as well as new transactions which may be proposed for various issues related to the effect on our business. We cannot assure you that the terms of the transactions with these various related parties are on terms as favorable to us as those that could have been obtained in arm’s-length transactions with third parties, or that the existing policies and procedures are sufficient to identify and completely address conflicts of interest that may arise. Related party transactions could result in related parties receiving more favorable treatment than an unaffiliated third party would receive, although these parties may provide goods or services that are not readily available elsewhere in some situations. In addition, related party transactions present difficult conflicts of interest, could result in significant and minor disadvantages to our company and may impair investor confidence, which could materially and adversely affect us. Related party transactions could also cause us to become materially dependent on related parties in the ongoing conduct of our business, and related parties may be motivated by personal interests to pursue courses of action that are not necessarily in the best interests of our company and our stockholders. We have a significant amount of goodwill and intangible assets that may become impaired, which could impact our results of operations. Approximately $30.3 million, or 6.7%, of our total assets at December 31, 2010 were net intangible assets, including technology, customer relationships and trade name, and approximately $53.8 million, or 11.8%, of our total assets at December 31, 2010 were goodwill that relates to our acquisitions. We amortize the intangible assets, with the exception of goodwill, based on our estimate of their remaining useful lives and their values at the time of acquisition. We are required to test goodwill for impairment at least on an annual basis, or earlier if we determine it may be impaired due to change in circumstances. We are required to test the other intangible assets with definite useful lives for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of the intangible assets may not be recoverable. If impairment exists in any of these assets, we are required to write-down the related asset to its estimated recoverable value as of the measurement date. Such impairment write-downs may significantly impact our results of operations. 13 Table of Contents We are dependent on certain key customers, and the loss of one or more customers could have a material adverse effect on us. A substantial portion of our business results from revenues from key customers. For the year ended December 31, 2010, one customer represented 14.6% of our consolidated revenues. In the year ended December 31, 2009, two customers represented 13.0% and 11.6% of our consolidated revenues, respectively. In the year ended December 31, 2008, one customer represented 10.7% of our consolidated revenues. Revenues from our top ten customers during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 accounted for approximately 53.0%, 62.0% and 36.3% of our consolidated revenues, respectively. If one or more of these key customers were to reduce their orders from us substantially, we would suffer a decline in revenue, which may materially and adversely affect us. We may not be able to successfully integrate our recently acquired business or any future acquired businesses into our existing worldwide business without substantial expenses, delays or other operational or financial problems. During 2009 we acquired the Argentina companies Distribuidora Shopping S.A. Tomasetto Achille, S.A., and the Teleflex Systems business. During 2010, we acquired Productive Concepts International LLC’s alternative fuel business and Evotek LLC and as a part of our business strategy we may seek to acquire additional businesses, technologies or products in the future. We cannot assure you that any acquisition or any future transaction we complete will result in long-term benefits to us or our stockholders or that our management will be able to integrate or manage the acquired business effectively, efficiently and in a timely manner. We could also incur unanticipated expenses or losses in connection with any acquisition or future transaction. Acquisitions entail numerous risks, including difficulties associated with the integration of operations, technologies, products and personnel that, if realized, could harm our operating results. Risks related to potential acquisitions include, but are not limited to: • difficulties in combining previously separate businesses into a single unit; • inability to overcome differences in foreign business practices, accounting practices, customs and importation regulations, language and other barriers in connection with the acquisition of foreign companies; • substantial diversion of management’s time and attention from day-to-day business when evaluating and negotiating such transactions and then integrating an acquired business; • discovery, after completion of the acquisition, of liabilities assumed from the acquired business or of assets acquired that are not realizable; • costs and delays in implementing, and the potential difficulty in maintaining, uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, including the integration of different information systems; • the presence or absence of adequate internal controls and/or significant fraud in the financial systems of acquired companies; and • failure to achieve anticipated benefits, such as cost savings and revenue enhancements. We face risks associated with marketing, distributing, and servicing our products internationally. In addition to our operations in the United States, we currently operate in Canada, Italy, Australia, India, Pakistan, the Netherlands, Japan, Brazil, Argentina and Venezuela, and market our products and technologies in other international markets, including both industrialized and developing countries. During the year ended December 31, 2010, approximately 14% of our revenue was derived from sales to customers located within the United States and Canada, and the remaining 86% was derived from sales in Asia, Europe, Latin America and the Middle East. During 2009 and 2008, approximately 8% and 13% of our revenue, respectively, was derived from sales to customers located 14 Table of Contents within the United States and Canada, and the remaining 92% and 87%, respectively, was derived from sales in Asia, Europe, Latin America and the Middle East. Additionally, approximately 86% of our employees and 91% of our approximately 850 distributors and dealers worldwide are located outside the United States. Our combined international operations are subject to various risks common to international activities, such as the following: • our ability to maintain good relations with our overseas employees, suppliers, distributors and customers to collect amounts owed from our overseas customers; • expenses and administrative difficulties associated with maintaining a significant labor force outside the United States, including, without limitation, the need to comply with employment and tax laws and to adhere to the terms of real property leases and other financing arrangements in foreign nations; • exposure to currency fluctuations; • potential difficulties in enforcing contractual obligations and intellectual property rights; • complying with a wide variety of laws and regulations, including product certification, environmental, and import and export laws; • the challenges of operating in disparate geographies and cultures; • political and economic instability; and • adverse tax consequences, including, without limitation, restrictions on our ability to repatriate dividends from our subsidiaries. We depend on a limited number of third party suppliers for key materials and components for our products. We have established relationships with third party suppliers that provide materials and components for our products. A supplier’s failure to supply materials or components in a timely manner or to supply materials and components that meet our quality, quantity or cost requirements, combined with a delay in our ability to obtain substitute sources for these materials and components in a timely manner or on terms acceptable to us, would harm our ability to manufacture our products effectively, or would significantly increase our production costs, either of which could materially and adversely affect us. In addition, we rely on a limited number of suppliers for certain proprietary die cast parts, electronics, software, catalysts and engines for use in our end products. Approximately 28.9%, 45.7%, and 34.6% of our purchases of raw materials and services during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively, were supplied by ten entities. During 2010, one supplier represented 10.3% of our purchases of raw materials and services. During 2009, one supplier represented 12.4% of our purchases of raw materials and services. During 2008, no suppliers represented more than 10% of our purchases of raw materials and services. We are highly dependent on certain key personnel. Our success depends on the management and leadership skills of our senior management team. The unexpected loss of any of these individuals or an inability to attract and retain additional personnel could impede or prevent the implementation of our business strategy. We cannot assure that we will be able to retain all of our existing senior management personnel or attract additional qualified personnel when needed. Additionally, we do not maintain key-man life insurance on any of our senior management personnel. Mariano Costamagna’s employment agreement may limit our Board of Directors’ ability to change our senior management. Mariano Costamagna, our Chief Executive Officer and a member of our Board of Directors, has entered into an employment agreement with us that is effective from January 1, 2009 until December 31, 2012. This new employment agreement provides for an annual base salary of $145,000 paid in U.S. dollars and €335,000 paid in Euros, as well as bonuses, benefits and reasonable business expenses. If, during the term of his employment, we 15 Table of Contents terminate Mr. Costamagna’s employment other than for “cause” or disability or if Mr. Costamagna resigns for “good reason,” we must pay Mr. Costamagna a severance payment equal to $5.0 million divided into five equal installments (the first of which is due on the 60th day following termination with subsequent installments due on each anniversary of termination), provided that Mr. Costamagna abides by certain covenants limiting his ability to compete with us, solicit our employees or interfere with our business during those four years following his termination. The required severance payment may limit our Board of Directors’ ability to decide whether to retain or to replace Mr. Costamagna or to reallocate management responsibilities among our senior executives, a fact that could, in certain circumstances, materially and adversely affect us. Unionized labor disputes at original equipment manufacturer facilities can negatively affect our product sales. As we become more dependent on vehicle conversion programs with OEMs, we will become increasingly dependent on OEM production and the associated labor forces at OEM sites. For the year ended December 31, 2010, direct OEM product sales accounted for approximately 50.6% of our revenue. For 2009 and 2008, direct OEM product sales accounted for approximately 64.5% and 39.5% of our revenue, respectively. Labor unions represent most of the labor forces at OEM facilities. In the past, labor disputes have occurred at OEM facilities, which have adversely impacted our direct OEM product sales. Such labor disputes are likely to occur in the future and, if they do occur, they could materially and adversely affect us. Our business is subject to seasonal influences. Operating results for any quarter are not indicative of the results that may be achieved for any subsequent quarter or for a full year. Many of the factors that impact our operating results are beyond our control and difficult to predict. They include seasonal work patterns due to vacations and holidays, particularly in our European manufacturing facilities, and fluctuations in demand for the end-user products in which our products are placed. Class action litigation due to stock price volatility or other factors could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert our management’s time and attention. From January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2010, our stock price has fluctuated from a low of $24.50 to a high of $51.94. For 2009, our stock price fluctuated from a low of $9.83 to a high of $52.53. During 2008, our stock price fluctuated from a low of $9.80 to a high of $61.24. In the past, securities class action litigation often has been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. Companies in the technology industries are particularly vulnerable to this kind of litigation due to the high volatility of their stock prices. Accordingly, we may in the future be the target of securities litigation. Any securities litigation could result in substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of our management. Our actual operating results may differ materially from our guidance. From time to time, we release guidance in our quarterly earnings releases, quarterly earnings conference calls or otherwise, regarding our future performance that represent our management’s estimates as of the date of release. This guidance, which includes forward-looking statements, is based on projections prepared by our management. These projections are not prepared with a view toward compliance with published guidelines of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and neither our registered public accountants nor any other independent expert or outside party compiles or examines the projections and, accordingly, no such person expresses any opinion or any other form of assurance with respect thereto. Projections are based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control and are based upon specific assumptions with respect to 16 Table of Contents future business decisions, some of which will change. The principal reason that we release guidance is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by any such persons. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions and estimates inherent in the guidance furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, our guidance is only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results will vary from our guidance and the variations may be material. In light of the foregoing, investors are urged not to rely upon, or otherwise consider, our guidance in making an investment decision in respect of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 17 Table of Contents 