ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This report contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) that are based on management’s current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the Company and its business. In addition, other written or oral statements which constitute forward-looking statements may be made from time to time by or on behalf of Molecular Insight Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Any statement in this report that is not a statement of historical fact is a forward-looking statement, and in some cases, words such as “believe,” “estimate,” “project,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “anticipate,” “plans,” “seeks,” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from the anticipated outcomes or result. These statements are not guarantees of future performance, and undue reliance should not be placed on these statements. Molecular Insight Pharmaceuticals, Inc. undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in our forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: Risks Related to Our Product Candidates and Operations We are largely dependent on the success of our lead product candidates, Zemiva, Trofex, Azedra, Onalta and Solazed, and we may not be able to successfully commercialize these potential products. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs relating to the development and marketing of our lead product candidates, Zemiva, Trofex, Azedra, Onalta and Solazed. We have not obtained approval to market these potential products in any jurisdiction and we may never be able to obtain approval or, if approvals are obtained, to commercialize these products successfully. If we fail to successfully commercialize these products, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenue to sustain and grow our business, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be adversely affected. We have also begun to focus our research efforts toward identifying and developing product candidates in addition to Zemiva, Trofex, Azedra, Onalta and Solazed. We do not know whether our planned preclinical development or clinical trials for these other product candidates will begin on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. In addition, we do not know whether any of our clinical trials will result in marketable products. We do not anticipate that any additional product candidates will reach the market for at least several years, if at all. 17 Table of Contents If we fail to obtain U.S. regulatory approval of Zemiva, Trofex, Azedra, Onalta or Solazed, or any of our other current or future product candidates, we will be unable to commercialize these potential products in the United States. The development, testing, manufacturing and marketing of our product candidates are subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the United States. In particular, the process of obtaining FDA approval is costly and time consuming, and the time required for such approval is uncertain. Our product candidates must undergo rigorous preclinical and clinical testing and an extensive regulatory approval process mandated by the FDA. Such regulatory review includes the determination of manufacturing capability and product performance. Generally, only a small percentage of pharmaceutical products are ultimately approved for commercial sale. There can be no assurance that our current or future product candidates will be approved by the FDA or any other governmental body. In addition, there can be no assurance that all necessary approvals will be granted for future product candidates or that FDA review or actions will not involve delays caused by requests for additional information or testing that could adversely affect the time to market for and sale of our product candidates. Further, failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can, among other things, result in the suspension of regulatory approval as well as possible civil and criminal sanctions. Failure to enroll patients in our clinical trials may cause delays in developing Zemiva, Trofex, Azedra, Onalta or Solazed or any of our other current or future product candidates. We may encounter delays in the development and commercialization, or fail to obtain marketing approval, of Zemiva, Trofex, Azedra, Onalta or Solazed or any other future product candidate if we are unable to enroll enough patients to complete clinical trials. Our ability to enroll sufficient numbers of patients in our clinical trials depends on many factors, including the severity of illness of the population, the size of the patient population, the nature of the clinical protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the trial and competing clinical trials. Delays in planned patient enrollment may result in increased costs and harm our ability to complete our clinical trials and obtain regulatory approval. Delays in clinical testing could result in increased costs to us and delay our ability to generate revenue. Significant delays in clinical testing could materially increase our product development costs. We have spent all of the net proceeds raised in our initial public offering and utilizing the net proceeds from the subsequent sale of Bonds and Warrants in connection with additional clinical trials for Zemiva, Trofex, Azedra, Onalta and Solazed. We do not know whether planned clinical trials could begin on time, or require to be restructured or could be completed on schedule, if at all. Clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in obtaining regulatory approval to commence and continue a study, delays in reaching agreement on acceptable clinical study terms with prospective sites, delays in obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a study at a prospective site and delays in recruiting patients to participate in a study. In addition, we typically rely on third-party clinical investigators to conduct our clinical trials and other third-party organizations to oversee the operations of these clinical trials and to perform data collection and analysis. As a result, we may face additional delays outside of our control if these parties do not perform their obligations in a timely fashion. Significant delays in testing or regulatory approvals for any of our current or future product candidates, including Zemiva, Trofex, Azedra, Onalta and Solazed, could prevent or cause delays in the commercialization of such product candidates, reduce potential revenues from the sale of such product candidates and cause our costs to increase. Our clinical trials for any of our current or future product candidates may produce negative or inconclusive results and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical and/or preclinical testing for these product candidates or cease our trials. We do not know whether our existing or future clinical trials could demonstrate safety and efficacy sufficiently to result in marketable products. Because our clinical trials for Zemiva, Trofex, Azedra, Onalta 18 Table of Contents and Solazed and our other product candidates may produce negative or inconclusive results, we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical and/or preclinical testing for these product candidates or cease our clinical trials. If this occurs, we may not be able to obtain approval for these product candidates or our anticipated time to market these product candidates may be substantially delayed and we may also experience significant additional development costs. We may also be required to undertake additional clinical testing if we change or expand the indications for our product candidates. We could only receive regulatory approval to commercialize a product candidate if we can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA, or the applicable foreign regulatory agency, that the product candidate is safe and effective. If approved, the commercialization of our product candidates, including Zemiva, Trofex, Azedra, Onalta and Solazed, may not be profitable due to the need to develop manufacturing, sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, or make arrangements with a third party to perform these functions. In order for the commercialization of our potential products to be profitable, our products must be cost-effective and economical to manufacture on a commercial scale. Subject to regulatory approval, we expect to incur significant sales, marketing, distribution and, to the extent we do not outsource manufacturing, manufacturing expenses in connection with the commercialization of Zemiva, Trofex, Azedra, Onalta and Solazed and our other potential products as we do not currently have a dedicated sales force, and we have no experience in the manufacturing, sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products. In order to commercialize Zemiva, Trofex, Azedra, Onalta and Solazed or any of our other potential products that we develop, we must develop manufacturing, sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or make arrangements with a third party to perform these functions. Developing a sales force is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to develop this capacity. If we are unable to establish adequate manufacturing, sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, independently or with others, we may not be able to generate significant revenue and may not become profitable. Our future profitability will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to: • the costs and timing of developing and operating a commercial scale manufacturing facility or the costs of outsourcing the manufacturing of Zemiva, Trofex, Azedra, Onalta and Solazed; • receipt of FDA approval of Zemiva, Trofex, Azedra, Onalta, Solazed and our other product candidates, as applicable; • the terms of any marketing restrictions or post-marketing commitments imposed as a condition of approval by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities; • the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights; • costs of establishing sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; • the effect of competing technological and market developments; and • the terms and timing of any collaborative, licensing and other arrangements that we may establish. Even if we receive regulatory approval for Zemiva, Trofex, Azedra, Onalta, Solazed or any of our other product candidates, we may never receive significant revenues from any of them. To the extent that we are not successful in commercializing our potential products, we will incur significant additional losses and the price of our common stock could be negatively affected. We do not have patent rights to the composition of Zemiva, and if we cannot gain and exploit a period of marketing exclusivity under the Food, Drug & Cosmetic Act, as amended, we may not be able to successfully commercialize Zemiva or our other product candidates. We do not have patent rights to the composition of Zemiva. The original patent protecting BMIPP, the underlying active molecule in Zemiva, expired in 2003. We believe that Zemiva is a new chemical entity in the United States and could be eligible for market exclusivity under the Food, Drug & Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, as amended by the Hatch-Waxman Act of 1984. A drug can be classified as a new chemical entity if the FDA has not previously approved any other new drug containing the same active agent. Under 19 Table of Contents sections 505(c)(3)(D)(ii) and 505(j)(5)(D)(ii) of the FDCA, as amended by the Hatch-Waxman Act of 1984, a new chemical entity that is granted regulatory approvals may, in the absence of patent protections, be eligible for five years of marketing exclusivity in the United States following regulatory approval. This marketing exclusivity could protect us from any other applicant utilizing the materials in support of our new drug application, or NDA, during the exclusivity period. However, there is no assurance that Zemiva could be considered a new chemical entity for these purposes or be entitled to the period of marketing exclusivity. If we are not able to gain or exploit the period of marketing exclusivity, we may not be able to successfully commercialize Zemiva or may face significant competitive threats to such commercialization from other manufacturers, including the manufacturers of generic alternatives. Further, even if Zemiva is considered a new chemical entity and we are able to gain five years of marketing exclusivity, another company could also gain such marketing exclusivity under the provisions of the FDCA, as amended by the Hatch-Waxman Act if such company can complete a full NDA with a complete human clinical trial process and obtain regulatory approval of its product. Our proprietary rights may not adequately protect our intellectual property and product candidates and if we cannot obtain adequate protection of our intellectual property and product candidates, we may not be able to successfully market our product candidates. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining and maintaining intellectual property protection for our technologies and product candidates. We will only be able to protect our technologies and product candidates from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid and enforceable patents cover them, or that other market exclusionary rights apply. Our lead cardiovascular molecular imaging candidate, Zemiva, is not covered by patent rights. We hold the patent rights to our second generation cardiac candidate, a derivative of Zemiva. Because Zemiva itself is not patented, we depend on obtaining the five year period of marketing exclusivity under the FDCA for Zemiva as a new chemical entity. Failure to obtain this marketing exclusivity right could permit competitors to gain access to the market for Zemiva. While we have obtained enforceable patents covering our oncology product candidate Trofex, our neurology product candidate and our Ultratrace radiolabeling technology platform, some of our patent rights for these compounds and technologies are still pending patent applications. We cannot guarantee these patent applications will issue as patents. The patent positions of life sciences companies, like ours, can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in such companies’ patents has emerged to date in the United States. The general patent environment outside the United States also involves significant uncertainty. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or that the scope of these patent rights could provide a sufficient degree of future protection that could permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage with respect to these products and technology. Additionally, life science companies like ours are dependent on creating a pipeline of products. We may not be able to develop additional proprietary technologies or product candidates that produce commercially viable products, or that are themselves patentable. Our issued patents may be subject to challenge and possibly invalidated by third parties. Changes in either the patent laws or in the interpretations of patent laws in the United States or other countries may diminish the market exclusionary ability of our intellectual property. In addition, others may independently develop similar or alternative compounds and technologies that may be outside the scope of our intellectual property. Should third parties obtain patent rights to similar compounds or radiolabeling technology, this may have an adverse effect on our business. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. In particular, we rely on trade secrets to protect certain manufacturing aspects of our compound Zemiva. Trade secrets, however, are difficult to protect. While we believe that we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our own or our strategic partners’ employees, consultants, contractors or advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. We seek to protect this information, in part, through the use of non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with 20 Table of Contents employees, consultants, advisors and others. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for a breach. In addition, we cannot ensure that those agreements could provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information and prevent their unauthorized use or disclosure. To the extent that consultants or key employees apply technological information independently developed by them or by others to our product candidates, disputes may arise as to the proprietary rights of the information, which may not be resolved in our favor. Consultants and key employees that work with our confidential and proprietary technologies are required to assign all intellectual property rights in their discoveries to us. However, these consultants or key employees may terminate their relationship with us, and we cannot preclude them indefinitely from dealing with our competitors. If our trade secrets become known to competitors with greater experience and financial resources, the competitors may copy or use our trade secrets and other proprietary information in the advancement of their products, methods or technologies. If we were to prosecute a claim that a third party had illegally obtained and was using our trade secrets, it could be expensive and time consuming and the outcome could be unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets than courts in the United States. Moreover, if our competitors independently develop equivalent knowledge, we would lack any contractual claim to this information, and our business could be harmed. Our ability to commercialize our product candidates will depend on our ability to sell such products without infringing the patent or proprietary rights of third parties. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, such litigation could be costly and time consuming and an unfavorable outcome could have a significant adverse effect on our business. Our ability to commercialize our product candidates will depend on our ability to sell such products without infringing the patents or other proprietary rights of third parties. Third-party intellectual property in the fields of cardiology, oncology, neurology, and radiopharmaceutical technologies are complicated, and third-party intellectual property rights in these fields are continuously evolving. We have not performed searches for third-party intellectual property rights that may raise freedom-to-operate issues, and we have not obtained legal opinions regarding commercialization of our product candidates. As such, there may be existing patents that may affect our ability to commercialize our product candidates. In addition, because patent applications are published 18 months after their filing, and because applications can take several years to issue, there may be currently pending third-party patent applications that are unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents. If a third-party claims that we infringe on its patents or other proprietary rights, we could face a number of issues that could seriously harm our competitive position, including: • infringement claims that, with or without merit, can be costly and time consuming to litigate, can delay the regulatory approval process and can divert management’s attention from our core business strategy; • substantial damages for past infringement which we may have to pay if a court determines that our products or technologies infringe upon a competitor’s patent or other proprietary rights; • a court order prohibiting us from commercializing our products or technologies unless the holder licenses the patent or other proprietary rights to us, which such holder is not required to do; • if a license is available from a holder, we may have to pay substantial royalties or grant cross licenses to our patents or other proprietary rights; and • redesigning our process so that it does not infringe the third-party intellectual property, which may not be possible, or which may require substantial time and expense including delays in bringing our own products to market. Such actions could harm our competitive position and our ability to generate revenue and could result in increased costs. 21 Table of Contents We may be unable to obtain Orphan Drug marketing exclusivity for certain of our product candidates and if another party obtains Orphan Drug exclusivity instead, approval of our product for the same indication could be prevented for seven years. Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant Orphan Drug designation to drugs intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is defined by the FDA as a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States. Orphan Drug designation does not shorten the development or regulatory review time of a drug, but does provide limited advantages in the regulatory review and approval process. The company that obtains the first FDA approval for a designated Orphan Drug indication receives marketing exclusivity for use of that drug for that indication for a period of seven years. Moreover, even if we obtain Orphan Drug exclusivity for one or more indications, our exclusivity may be lost if the FDA later determines that the request for designation was materially defective, or if we are unable to assure sufficient commercial quantity of the drug. Orphan Drug exclusivity for Azedra and Onalta also could not prevent a competitor from obtaining approval of a different drug to treat the same Orphan Drug indications. If our product candidates, including Zemiva, Trofex, Azedra, Onalta and Solazed, do not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients and the medical community, we may be unable to generate significant revenue, if any. The products that we develop may not achieve market acceptance among physicians, patients, third-party payers and others in the medical community. If we receive the regulatory approvals necessary for commercialization, the degree of market acceptance could depend upon a number of factors, including: • limited indications of regulatory approvals; • the establishment and demonstration in the medical community of the clinical efficacy and safety of our product candidates and their potential advantages over existing diagnostic compounds; • the prevalence and severity of any side effects; • our ability to offer our product candidates at an acceptable price; • the relative convenience and ease of administration of our products; • the strength of marketing and distribution support; and • sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. The market may not accept Zemiva, Trofex, Azedra, Onalta or Solazed based on any number of the above factors. If Zemiva is approved, its primary competition in the emergency department setting could be the then current standard of care, which involves several diagnostic products, and its primary competition in the non-acute setting could be existing perfusion agents such as Cardiolite and Myoview. If Trofex is approved, its primary competition could be the current standard of care in the assessment of metastatic prostate cancer. As of the time that Azedra, Onalta and Solazed are approved, there may be other therapies available which directly compete for the same indications. The market may choose to continue utilizing the existing products for any number of reasons, including familiarity with or pricing of these existing products. The failure of any of our product candidates to gain market acceptance could impair our ability to generate revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have no commercial manufacturing facility currently in production for Zemiva, Trofex, Azedra, Onalta, Solazed or any of our other product candidates and have no experience in manufacturing products for commercial purposes and the failure to find manufacturing partners or create a functioning manufacturing facility ourselves could have an adverse impact on our ability to grow our business. We currently have no active commercial manufacturing facility in production for Zemiva, Trofex, Azedra, Onalta, Solazed or our other product candidates. In October 2007, we purchased a domestic radiopharmaceutical manufacturing facility which we intend to utilize for the manufacture of our molecular imaging and 22 Table of Contents targeted radiotherapeutic product candidates in tandem with external sources for our commercial production needs, however, such facility is not operational yet. As such, we are dependent on third parties to supply our product candidates according to our specifications, in sufficient quantities, on time, in compliance with appropriate regulatory standards and at competitive prices. We do have a functioning commercial manufacturing facility for Zemiva at MDS Nordion. We cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain an adequate supply of our product candidates on acceptable terms, or at all. Zemiva is BMIPP that has been radiolabeled with I-123. We are currently aware of only one commercial provider of BMIPP, TCI America, in Portland, Oregon. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient amounts of BMIPP from this provider to produce adequate quantities of Zemiva. If this provider is unable to meet our demand, we could be required to find alternative sources of BMIPP, including producing BMIPP ourselves or contracting with third parties to produce BMIPP. We are not aware of any proprietary or technical reasons prohibiting the manufacture of BMIPP by us or a third party. However finding an alternative source for Zemiva could likely result in unforeseen costs and delays to the commercialization of Zemiva. We have contracted with a Canadian company, MDS Nordion, to radiolabel BMIPP and manufacture and supply Zemiva for our clinical trials and commercial production. In addition, we used a portion of the proceeds from our initial public offering to assist in the funding of the manufacture of Zemiva, Trofex, Azedra, Onalta and Solazed and our other product candidates. Manufacturers supplying biopharmaceutical products must comply with FDA regulations which require, among other things, compliance with the FDA’s evolving regulations on cGMPs, which are enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. The manufacture of products at any facility will be subject to strict quality control, testing and record keeping requirements, and continuing obligations regarding the submission of safety reports and other post-market information. Since the commercial manufacturing facility for Zemiva has not been constructed, the FDA has not certified the cGMP compliant manufacture of Zemiva. We cannot guarantee that the resultant facility will pass FDA inspection, or that future changes to cGMP manufacturing standards will not also affect the cGMP compliant manufacture of Zemiva. Azedra has completed a Phase 1 clinical trial and Trofex, and other product candidates are in preclinical or discovery stages. We have no commercial cGMP manufacturing capability for these candidates, and currently no third-party manufacturer for them. As such, we may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of these product candidates as we develop our pre-clinical or clinical programs for these compounds. We will need to enter into additional manufacturing arrangements for the manufacturing needs for all other product candidates. We have not yet determined if we will construct our own manufacturing facility for these product candidates. While we have signed a proposal agreement with MDS Nordion for the commercial manufacture and supply of Azedra, we cannot guarantee that MDS Nordion will be contracted to fulfill this role, or if another manufacturer will be sought. We cannot guarantee that a suitable manufacturer for these product candidates will be found, or that we will be able to secure manufacturing agreements on acceptable terms with any of these manufacturers. We also cannot guarantee that such manufacturer will be able to supply sufficient quantities of our product candidates, or that they will meet the requirements for clinical testing and cGMP manufacturing. If we fail to attract and retain senior management, consultants, advisors and scientific and technical personnel, our product development and commercialization efforts could be impaired. Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance of our senior management and key scientific and technical personnel, particularly John Babich, our Chief Executive Officer, President and Chief Scientific Officer. Although we have entered into employment agreements with other members of our current senior management, there is no assurance that they will remain in our employ for the entire term of such employment agreements. The loss of the services of any member of our senior management or our scientific or technical staff may significantly delay or prevent the development of our product candidates and other business objectives by diverting management’s attention to transition matters and identification of suitable replacements, if any, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. We maintain key man life insurance on John Babich. 23 Table of Contents We also rely on consultants and advisors to assist us in formulating our research and development strategy. All of our consultants and advisors are either self-employed or employed by other organizations, and they may have conflicts of interest or other commitments, such as consulting or advisory contracts with other organizations, that may affect their ability to contribute to us. In addition, we may need to recruit additional executive management and scientific and technical personnel. There is currently intense competition for skilled executives and employees with relevant scientific and technical expertise, and this competition is likely to continue. The inability to attract and retain sufficient scientific, technical and managerial personnel could limit or delay our product development efforts, which could adversely affect the development of our product candidates and commercialization of our potential products and growth of our business. We expect to expand our research, development, clinical research and marketing capabilities and, as a result, we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth, which could disrupt our operations. We expect to have significant growth in expenditures, the number of our employees and the scope of our operations, in particular with respect to those potential products that we elect to commercialize independently or together with others. To manage our anticipated future growth, we must continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational and financial systems, expand our facilities and continue to train qualified personnel. Due to our limited resources, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or train additional qualified personnel. The physical expansion of our operations may lead to significant costs and may divert our management and business development resources. Any inability to manage growth could delay the execution of our business plan or disrupt our operations. We may need to raise additional funds in order to finance the anticipated commercialization of our product candidates by incurring indebtedness, through collaboration and licensing arrangements, or by issuing securities which may cause dilution to existing stockholders or require us to relinquish rights to our technologies and our product candidates. Developing our product candidates, conducting clinical trials, establishing manufacturing facilities and developing marketing and distribution capabilities is expensive. We may need to finance future cash needs through additional public or private equity offerings, debt financings or corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs or our commercialization efforts. To the extent that we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience additional dilution. Debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants. To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies or our product candidates or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. In addition, due to current adverse general market conditions, financing may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. We have a history of losses and expect to continue to incur losses and may not achieve or maintain profitability. We have incurred net losses every year since our inception in 1997 and have generated no revenue during the development stage from product sales or licenses to date. As of December 31, 2008, we had a deficit accumulated during the development stage of approximately $226.4 million. We expect to incur additional losses for at least the next several years and cannot be certain that we will ever achieve profitability. As a result, our business is subject to all of the risks inherent in the development of a new business enterprise, such as the risk that we may not obtain substantial additional capital needed to support the expenses of developing our technology and commercializing our potential products; develop a market for our potential products; successfully transition from a company with a research focus to a company capable of either manufacturing and selling potential products or profitably licensing our potential products to others; and/or attract and retain qualified management, technical and scientific staff. 24 Table of Contents We currently have no significant source of revenue and may never become profitable. To date, we have not generated any revenue for product sales and we do not know when or if any of our product candidates will generate revenue. Our ability to generate revenue depends on a number of factors, including our ability to successfully complete clinical trials for Zemiva, Trofex, Azedra, Onalta and Solazed and obtain regulatory approval to commercialize these potential products. Even then, we will need to establish and maintain sales, marketing, distribution and to the extent we do not outsource manufacturing, manufacturing capabilities. We plan to rely on one or more strategic collaborators to help generate revenues in markets outside of the United States, and we cannot be sure that our collaborators, if any, will be successful. Our ability to generate revenue could also be impacted by certain challenges, risks and uncertainties frequently encountered in the establishment of new technologies and products in emerging markets and evolving industries. These challenges include our ability to: • execute our business model; • create brand recognition; • enter into a strategic collaboration or partnership; • manage growth in our operations; • create a customer base cost-effectively; • retain customers; • access additional capital when required; and • attract and retain key personnel. We cannot be certain that our business model will be successful or that it will successfully address these and other challenges, risks and uncertainties. If we are unable to generate significant revenue, we may not become profitable, and we may be unable to continue our operations. Even if we are able to commercialize Zemiva, Trofex, Azedra, Onalta and Solazed, we may not achieve profitability for at least several years, if at all, after generating material revenue. We license patent rights from third-party owners. If such owners do not properly maintain or enforce the patents underlying such licenses, our competitive position and business prospects could be harmed. We are party to a number of licenses that give us rights to third-party intellectual property that is necessary or useful for our business. In particular, we have obtained the nonexclusive rights from Novartis Pharma AG, or Novartis, for certain radiolabeled somatostatin analogs and the exclusive rights to the particular somatostatin analog compound edotreotide, along with know-how related to the manufacture and use of this compound. We may enter into additional licensing agreements to license third-party intellectual property in the future. Our success could depend in part on the ability of our licensors to obtain, maintain and enforce patent protection for their intellectual property, in particular, those patents to which we have secured exclusive rights. Our licensors may not successfully prosecute the patent applications to which we are licensed. Even if patents issue with respect to these patent applications, our licensors may fail to maintain these patents, may determine not to pursue litigation against other companies that are infringing these patents, or may pursue such litigation less aggressively than we could. In addition, our licensors may terminate their agreements with us in the event we breach the applicable license agreement and fail to cure the breach within a specified period of time. Without protection for the intellectual property we license, other companies might be able to offer substantially identical products for sale, which could adversely affect our competitive business position and harm our business prospects. Under the license agreement with Novartis Pharma AG, Novartis has retained an option to reacquire rights in the compound if annual sales exceed a certain threshold level. If Novartis does exercise this call back option, we will be required to sell to Novartis the rights in the compound which may have a negative affect on our operating results. 25 Table of Contents Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal controls and attestations of the effectiveness of new internal controls by our independent auditors. Our failure to maintain the effectiveness of our internal controls in accordance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business. We could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. In addition, our Bonds contain a covenant requirement that we obtain a statement from our auditors that the Company is in compliance at December 31, 2008 with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act regarding the Company’s system of internal control over financial reporting. Failure to be in compliance will result in a default under the Bond Indenture. We can not provide assurances that we will receive a statement that we are in compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act from our independent auditors, or that we will receive a waiver of the default from out Bondholders. Risks Related to Our Industry Our competitors may develop products that are less expensive, safer or more effective, which may diminish or eliminate the commercial success of any potential products that we may commercialize. If our competitors market products that are less expensive, safer or more effective than our future products developed from our product candidates, or that reach the market before our product candidates, we may not achieve commercial success. For example, if approved, Zemiva will compete in the emergency department setting with the current standard of care in the assessment of chest pain patients who present themselves to emergency departments. This standard involves several diagnostic products and procedures, in some cases involving the use of perfusion imaging agents, which in the aggregate may require several hours or days of hospitalization to reach an ultimate diagnosis. If approved, Zemiva’s primary competition in the non-acute setting will be perfusion imaging agents such as Cardiolite produced by Bristol-Myers Squibb Medical Imaging, Myoview produced by GE Healthcare, and generic thallium, the primary U.S. supplier being Tyco Healthcare/Mallinckrodt. The market may choose to continue utilizing the existing products for any number of reasons, including familiarity with or pricing of these existing products. The failure of Zemiva or any of our product candidates to compete with products marketed by our competitors would impair our ability to generate revenue, which would have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We expect to compete with several pharmaceutical companies including Bristol-Myers Squibb Medical Imaging, GE Healthcare and Tyco Healthcare/Mallinckrodt, and our competitors may: • develop and market products that are less expensive or more effective than our future products; • commercialize competing products before we or our partners can launch any products developed from our product candidates; • operate larger research and development programs or have substantially greater financial resources than we do; • initiate or withstand substantial price competition more successfully than we can; • have greater success in recruiting skilled technical and scientific workers from the limited pool of available talent; • more effectively negotiate third-party licenses and strategic relationships; and • take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities more readily than we can. 26 Table of Contents We expect to compete for market share against large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, smaller companies that are collaborating with larger pharmaceutical companies, new companies, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations. In addition, the life sciences industry is characterized by rapid technological change. Because our research approach integrates many technologies, it may be difficult for us to stay abreast of the rapid changes in each technology. If we fail to stay at the forefront of technological change, we may be unable to compete effectively. Our competitors may render our technologies obsolete by advances in existing technological approaches or the development of new or different approaches, potentially eliminating the advantages in our product discovery process that we believe we derive from our research approach and proprietary technologies. The use of hazardous materials in our operations may subject us to environmental claims or liabilities. Our research and development activities involve the use of hazardous materials, including chemicals and biological and radioactive materials. Injury or contamination from these materials may occur and we could be held liable for any damages, which could exceed our available financial resources. This liability could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and waste products. We may be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we fail to comply with extensive regulations enforced by the FDA and other agencies with respect to pharmaceutical products, the commercialization of our product candidates could be prevented, delayed or halted. Research, preclinical development, clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing of our product candidates are subject to extensive regulation by various government authorities. We have not received marketing approval for Zemiva, Trofex, Azedra, Onalta, Solazed or our other product candidates. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals is lengthy and expensive, and the time required for such approvals is uncertain. The approval process is affected by such factors as: • the severity of the disease; • the quality of submission relating to the product candidate; • the product candidate’s clinical efficacy and safety; • the strength of the chemistry and manufacturing control of the process; • the manufacturing facility compliance; • the availability of alternative treatments; • the risks and benefits demonstrated in clinical trials; and • the patent status and marketing exclusivity rights of certain innovative products. Any regulatory approvals that we or our partners receive for our product candidates may also be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product candidate may be marketed or contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing follow-up studies. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with the product candidate, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, may result in restrictions on the marketing of the product candidate and withdrawal of the product candidate from the market. U.S. manufacturing, labeling, storage and distribution activities also are subject to strict regulating and licensing by the FDA. The manufacturing facilities for our biopharmaceutical products are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA and other regulatory authorities and from time to time, these agencies may send notice of deficiencies as a result of such inspections. Our failure, or the failure of our biopharmaceutical 27 Table of Contents manufacturing facilities, to continue to meet regulatory standards or to remedy any deficiencies could result in corrective action by the FDA or these other authorities, including the interruption or prevention of marketing, closure of our biopharmaceutical manufacturing facilities, and fines or penalties. Regulatory authorities also could require post-marketing surveillance to monitor and report to the FDA potential adverse effects of our product candidates. Congress or the FDA in specific situations can modify the regulatory process. If approved, any of our product candidates’ subsequent failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could, among other things, result in warning letters, fines, suspension or revocation of regulatory approvals, product recalls or seizures, operating restrictions, injunctions and criminal prosecutions. The FDA’s policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we might not be permitted to market our product candidates and our business could suffer. In the future, we intend to distribute and sell our potential products outside of the United States, which will subject us to further regulatory risk. In addition to seeking approval from the FDA for Zemiva, Trofex, Azedra, Onalta and Solazed in the United States, we intend to seek the governmental approval required to market Zemiva, Trofex, Azedra, Onalta and Solazed and our other potential products in European Union countries such as the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Belgium, Holland and Italy through third-parties. We may in the future also seek approvals for additional countries. The regulatory review process varies from country to country, and approval by foreign government authorities is unpredictable, uncertain and generally expensive. Our ability to market our potential products could be substantially limited due to delays in receipt of, or failure to receive, the necessary approvals or clearances. We anticipate commencing the applications required in some or all of these countries following approval by the FDA; however, we may decide to file applications in advance of the FDA approval if we determine such filings to be both time and cost effective. If we export any of our potential products that have not yet been cleared for domestic commercial distribution, such products may be subject to FDA export restrictions. Marketing of our potential products in these countries, and in most other countries, is not permitted until we have obtained required approvals or exemptions in each individual country. Failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals could impair our ability to generate revenue from international sources. Market acceptance of our potential products could be limited if users are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement from third-party payers. Government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations generally provide reimbursement for products like our product candidates, and our commercial success could depend in part on these third-party payers agreeing to reimburse patients for the costs of our potential products. Even if we succeed in bringing any of our product candidates to market, we cannot assure you that third-party payers will consider our potential products cost effective or provide reimbursement in whole or in part for their use. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products. Each of our product candidates is intended to replace or alter existing therapies or procedures. These third-party payers may conclude that our product candidates are less safe, effective or cost-effective than these existing therapies or procedures. Therefore, third-party payers may not approve our products candidates for reimbursement. If third-party payers do not approve our product candidates for reimbursement or fail to reimburse for them adequately, sales could suffer as some physicians or their patients could opt for a competing product that is approved for reimbursement or is adequately reimbursed. Even if third-party payers make reimbursement available, these payers’ reimbursement policies may adversely affect our ability and the ability of our potential collaborators to sell our potential products on a profitable basis. 28 Table of Contents The trend toward managed healthcare in the United States, the growth of organizations such as health maintenance organizations and legislative proposals to reform healthcare and government insurance programs could significantly influence the purchase of healthcare services and products, resulting in lower prices and reduced demand for our products which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of our product candidates may change in ways adverse to us before or after the FDA or other regulatory agencies approve any of our product candidates for marketing. While we cannot predict the likelihood of any of these legislative or regulatory proposals, if any government or regulatory agencies adopt these proposals, they could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Product liability claims may damage our reputation and, if insurance proves inadequate, the product liability claims may harm our business. We may be exposed to the risk of product liability claims that is inherent in the biopharmaceutical industry. A product liability claim may damage our reputation by raising questions about our product’s safety and efficacy and could limit our ability to sell one or more products by preventing or interfering with commercialization of our potential products. In addition, product liability insurance for the biopharmaceutical industry is generally expensive to the extent it is available at all. There can be no assurance that we could obtain and maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or that we could secure increased coverage if the commercialization of our potential products progresses, or that future claims against us could be covered by our product liability insurance. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the existing coverage of our insurance policy and/or any rights of indemnification and contribution that we may have could offset any future claims. We currently maintain product liability insurance of $10 million per occurrence and in the aggregate for clinical trial related occurrences only. We believe that this coverage is currently adequate based on current and projected business activities and the associated risk exposure, although we expect to increase this coverage as our business activities and associated risks grow. A successful claim against us with respect to uninsured liabilities or in excess of insurance coverage and not subject to any indemnification or contribution could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We could be negatively impacted by the application or enforcement of federal and state fraud and abuse laws, including anti-kickback laws and other federal and state anti-referral laws. We are not aware of any current business practice which is in violation of any federal or state fraud and abuse law. However, continued vigilance to assure compliance with all potentially applicable laws will be a necessary expense associated with product development. For example, all product marketing efforts must be strictly scrutinized to assure that they are not associated with improper remunerations to referral sources in violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and similar state statutes. Remunerations may include potential future activities for our product candidates, including discounts, rebates and bundled sales, which must be appropriately structured to take advantage of statutory and regulatory “safe harbors.” From time to time we engage physicians in consulting activities. In addition, we may decide to sponsor continuing medical education activities for physicians or other medical personnel. We also may award or sponsor study grants to physicians from time to time. All relationships with physicians, including consulting arrangements, continuing medical education and study grants, must be similarly reviewed for compliance with the Anti-Kickback Statute to assure that remuneration is not provided in return for referrals. Patient inducements may also be unlawful. Inaccurate reports of product pricing, or a failure to provide product at an appropriate price to various governmental entities, could also serve as a basis for an enforcement action under various theories. Claims which are “tainted” by virtue of kickbacks or a violation of self-referral rules may be alleged as false claims if other elements of a violation are established. The federal False Claims Act, which includes a provision allowing whistleblowers to bring actions on behalf of the federal government and receive a portion of the recovery, applies to those who submit a false claim and those who cause a false claim to be submitted. 29 Table of Contents Because our potential customers may seek payments from the federal healthcare programs for our product candidates, even during the clinical trial stages, we must assure that we take no actions which could result in the submission of false claims. For example, free product samples which are knowingly or with reckless disregard billed to the federal healthcare programs could constitute false claims. If the practice was facilitated or fostered by us, we could be liable. Moreover, inadequate accounting for or a misuse of federal grant funds used for product research and development could be alleged as a violation of the False Claims Act or other relevant statutes. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations, and additional legal or regulatory change. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile, and your investment in our stock could decline in value. The market prices for securities of biotechnology companies in general have been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile in the future. The following factors, in addition to other risk factors described in this section, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock: • results from and any delays in the clinical trials programs; • failure or delays in entering additional product candidates into clinical trials; • failure or discontinuation of any of our research programs; • delays in establishing new strategic relationships; • delays in the development of our product candidates and commercialization of our potential products; • market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors and issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports or recommendations; • general economic conditions, including recent adverse changes in the global financial markets; • actual and anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial and operating results; • developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights; • introduction of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; • issues in manufacturing our product candidates or products; • market acceptance of our products; • third-party healthcare reimbursement policies; • FDA or other United States or foreign regulatory actions affecting us or our industry; • litigation or public concern about the safety of our product candidates or products; and • additions or departures of key personnel. These and other external factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. In addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. 30 Table of Contents A significant portion of our total outstanding shares are restricted from immediate resale but may be sold into the market in the near future. This could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. We had outstanding 25,118,490 shares of common stock as of March 5, 2009. The shares that were sold in our IPO may be resold in the public market freely. On May 9, 2008, we registered 4,030,543 shares of common stock on a registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC. These shares may be sold into the public market in the near future. Currently 6,515,883 shares of our common stock are restricted as a result of securities laws. Sales of these restricted shares by “affiliates” and sales of these restricted shares by non-“affiliates” who have held such shares for less than one year are subject to meeting certain requirements of Rule 144 of the Securities Act. Evolving regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses and continuing uncertainty. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations, and Nasdaq National Market rules are creating uncertainty for public companies. As a result of these new rules, we could incur additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. In addition, these new rules could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and this could make it difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors. We are constantly evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to new and proposed rules and cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. These new or changed laws, regulations, and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations, and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations, and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed. Several institutions have large investments in our common stock, bonds and warrants. One, or a combination of, these institutions may be able to exert substantial influence over our management and board of directors and, through them, affect our corporate policies and management’s decisions. Their interests may conflict with your interests as an investor in our common stock. Several institutions have made large investments in our common stock, bonds and/or warrants. As a result, these institutions, operating singly or together, may be able to exert substantial influence over our management and board of directors and, as a result, affect our corporate policies and management’s decisions relating to key corporate actions. These institutions may also from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us, or independently pursue acquisition opportunities that could otherwise be complementary to our business. In addition, the Company’s directors may authorize transactions, such as acquisitions, that involve risks to the interests of our Bondholders and common stockholders. These institutions’ interests may not be aligned, and may conflict, with your interests as an investor in our common stock, bonds, or warrants. 31 Table of Contents We have never paid dividends on our common stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock to date. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our capital stock for the foreseeable future. In addition, the terms of existing or any future debt facilities may preclude us from paying dividends on our stock. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock could be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. Some provisions of our Restated Articles of Organization and Amended and Restated Bylaws may inhibit potential acquisition bids that you may consider favorable. Our Restated Articles of Organization and Amended and Restated Bylaws contain provisions that may enable our Board of Directors to resist a change in control of our company even if a change in control were to be considered favorable by stockholders. These provisions include: • the authorization of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; • advance notice procedures required for stockholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before an annual meeting of stockholders; • limitations on persons authorized to call a meeting of stockholders; • a staggered Board of Directors; and • supermajority voting requirements to remove directors from office. These and other provisions contained in our charter and bylaws could delay or discourage transactions involving an actual or potential change in control of us or our management, including transactions which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current prices, and may limit the ability of stockholders to remove our current management or approve transactions that our stockholders may deem to be in their best interest and, therefore, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Risks related to Our Sale of Bonds and Warrants Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to operate our business, and could prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under the Bonds. On November 16, 2007, we sold $150,000,000 in senior secured floating rate Bonds due 2012 and Warrants to purchase 6,021,247 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $5.87 per share. This level of indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including: • it may restrict us from making strategic acquisitions, introducing new products or services, or exploiting business opportunities; • it will limit our ability to borrow money or sell stock to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, and other financing needs; • our interest expense will increase if interest rates in general increase because all of our indebtedness bears interest at variable rates; • it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and future business opportunities; • it may place us at a competitive disadvantage with our competitors that are not as highly leveraged; • it may make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business, our industry, or the economy in general than our competitors who have less debt; and 32 Table of Contents • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations will be dedicated to the repayment of our indebtedness, including indebtedness we may incur in the future, and will not be available for other purposes including business development and capital expenditures. Our bonds require debt service payments and possible mandatory redemption, both of which will require a significant amount of cash, and our ability to generate cash depends on many factors outside of our control. Our ability to service our debt and to fund our operations and planned capital expenditures will depend on our operating performance. This, in part, is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors beyond our control. If our cash flow from operations is insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, obtain additional equity capital or indebtedness or refinance or restructure our current debt. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations or any redemption of our outstanding bonds which may be required. In the absence of such resources, we could face substantial cash flow problems and might be required to sell material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Restrictive covenants in the indenture governing our bonds in many ways restricts our ability to take these actions, and even if we could take such actions, we cannot assure you as to the timing of such sales or the proceeds that we could realize from such sales or if additional debt or equity financing could be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We are subject to a number of restrictive financial covenants which may restrict our business and financing activities. The indenture and other documents governing our outstanding bonds contain financial covenants requiring that we maintain minimum liquidity and contains limits on maximum capital expenditures. In addition, the indenture contains restrictive debt covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: • borrow money; • make certain investments; • use assets as security in other transactions; • create liens; • merge or consolidate; and • transfer and sell assets. A failure to comply with these restrictions and covenants could result in a default under our bonds. This could cause any or all of our bonds to become immediately due and payable under acceleration and cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions in the debt agreements. If our debt were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that we could repay it. In addition, a default could give our lenders the right to terminate any commitments that they had made to provide us with additional funds. The variable interest rate on our bonds creates significant risk. If economic circumstances drive up interest rates, we may have insufficient cash resources to redeem the bonds Our indebtedness bears interest at variable rates, and therefore, if interest rates increase, our debt service requirements will increase. We are exposed to interest rate changes in three month LIBOR rate that is the base rate of our outstanding Bonds which are due 2012, which could affect operating results as well as our financial position and cash flows. Based on the terms of the Bonds, which provide for the LIBOR plus eight percent determined on a quarterly basis, the initial quarterly interest rate was 12.88%. The rate for the quarterly period beginning February 1, 2009 is 9.17%. Although we have not at the present time employed derivative financial instruments to limit the volatility in the LIBOR interest rate, we may in the future employ derivative financial instruments such as swaps, 33 Table of Contents collars, forwards, options or other instruments to limit the volatility to earnings and cash flows generated by the variable portion of bond interest rate. Derivative financial instruments could be executed solely as a risk management tool and not for trading or speculative purposes. We may employ derivative contracts in the future which may not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under SFAS No. 133, which may result in volatility to earnings depending upon fluctuations in the underlying market. Our outstanding Bonds are secured by all of our assets, and a default could result in our debt holders taking title to all of our assets in order to satisfy our obligations to them, which could render our common stock completely valueless. Our obligations under our existing Bonds are secured by a first priority security interest in all of our assets including our intellectual property. If we are unable to make the payments due on the Bonds, if we default on any of the conditions, restrictions or covenants of the bonds, or if we become insolvent, the holders of the Bonds have a right to foreclose on, take possession of and liquidate all of our assets. Such a default and the related foreclosure and liquidation could irreparably harm our financial condition and our ability to operate, which could likely result in the complete failure of our business and could render our common stock valueless. Risks Related to General Economic Conditions General economic conditions, including concerns regarding the current global recession and credit constraints may negatively impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. As widely reported, financial markets in the United States, Canada, Europe and Asia have been experiencing extreme disruption in recent months, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, declining valuations of certain investments, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, the failure or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of government intervention. Many economists have concluded that the United States economy, and the global economy, are in a recession and have predicted that the current recession may last at least throughout much of 2009. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions is greatly reduced and local governments and many businesses are in serious difficulty due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. Unemployment has increased significantly. As a development stage company, such a protracted downturn may hurt our business in a number of ways, including the impact on our key suppliers, limiting their ability to deliver timely goods and services needed in the development and testing of our product candidates, as well as the impact on our ability to access capital and credit markets and on our ability to manage our cash balance. While we are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the adverse conditions in the United States and other countries, any of the circumstances mentioned above could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow or cash position. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 