ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This report contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) that are based on management’s current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the Company and its business. In addition, other written or oral statements which constitute forward-looking statements may be made from time to time by or on behalf of Molecular Insight Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Any statement in this report that is not a statement of historical fact is a forward-looking statement, and in some cases, words such as “believe,” “estimate,” “project,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “anticipate,” “plans,” “seeks,” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from the anticipated outcomes or result. These statements are not guarantees of future performance, and undue reliance should not be placed on these statements. Molecular Insight Pharmaceuticals, Inc. undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 24 Table of Contents Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in our forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: Risks Related to Our Ability to Continue as a Going Concern and Our Noncompliance with Covenants under Our Bond Indenture We may not be able to continue as a going concern. On November 16, 2007, we sold $150,000,000 in Senior Secured Floating Rate Bonds due 2012 (“Bonds”) and warrants to purchase 6,021,247 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $5.87 per share (“Bond Warrants”) under an indenture (“Bond Indenture”). The terms of our Bond Indenture include various covenants, including, among others, a financial covenant that requires us to maintain a minimum liquidity level on a quarterly basis. The minimum liquidity covenant (as defined in the Indenture and which substantially represents all of our cash, cash equivalents and investments) requires us to maintain a minimum amount of not less than $25.7 million and $29.2 million at September 30, 2010 and December 31, 2010, respectively. Based on our current projections of our cash flow, we expect that we would not be in compliance with this covenant in the third or fourth quarter of 2010, unless we are able to raise sufficient additional capital. Additionally, under the Bond Indenture, we are required to deliver audited annual financial statements to Bond holders which are not subject to a “going concern” or like qualification or exception from our independent auditors. Such anticipated noncompliance of the required minimum liquidity level in the second half of 2010, recurring losses from our operations and net stockholders’ capital deficiency, and the uncertainty of our obtaining additional financing on a timely basis raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern beyond September 2010. As a result, in the report of our independent registered public accounting firm on our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2009, our independent auditors have included an emphasis of a matter paragraph relating to substantial doubt whether we can continue as a going concern. We cannot guarantee our ability to continue as a going concern unless we can raise additional capital, of which there can be no assurance. Our obligations under our Bond Indenture may be accelerated due to our noncompliance with the covenants in our Bond Indenture if the grace period (or any extension thereof) of the waiver granted by our Bond holders expires, and we are unable to reach an agreement with Bond holders regarding an additional waiver or an agreement regarding the restructuring of our outstanding debt. As discussed above, the inclusion of such a “going concern” paragraph in the report of our independent registered public accounting firm on our financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2009 would result in a default by us under the terms of the Bond Indenture that may give rise to an acceleration of our debt obligations under the Bond Indenture, unless waived by the Bond holders. We discussed with the holders of our Bond the foregoing circumstances and a restructuring of our outstanding debt. On March 15, 2010, we executed a waiver agreement with the holders of at least a majority of the Bonds and the Bond Indenture trustee. Under the terms of the waiver agreement, the Bond holders and Bond Indenture trustee have agreed to waive the noncompliance arising from the inclusion of the “going concern” paragraph in the report of our independent registered public accounting firm on our financial statements and other technical defaults under the Bond Indenture until 12:01 AM Eastern Standard Time on April 16, 2010, subject to earlier termination upon certain circumstances. The waiver is also subject to a number of certain terms and conditions relating to our provision of certain information to the Bond holders, among other conditions and matters. In the event that the waiver expires or terminates prior to the successful restructuring of the outstanding debt, then we will be in default of our obligations under the Bond Indenture and the Bond holders may choose to accelerate the debt obligations under the Bond Indenture and demand immediate repayment in full and seek to foreclose on the collateral supporting such obligations. We are continuing to negotiate with the Bond holders regarding the restructuring of the outstanding debt in a manner designed to avoid the acceleration of our debt obligations and position us for future growth. There is no assurance that we will reach such an agreement on terms favorable to us, or at all. Moreover, in connection with our discussions with the Bond holders to reach such an agreement, the Bond holders may impose additional 25 Table of Contents operational or financial restrictions on us or modify the terms of our existing Bond Indenture. These restrictions may limit our ability, among other things, to make necessary capital expenditures or incur additional indebtedness. In addition, the Bond holders may require us to pay additional fees, prepay a portion of our indebtedness, accelerate the amortization schedule for our indebtedness or agree to higher interest rates on our outstanding indebtedness or take other actions that could adversely affect our business. The Bond holders may also require us to raise additional capital concurrently with any restructuring. Any restructuring of the debt obligations could require a significant change in our plans and could require us to undergo a realignment of our cost structure, including a reduction in workforce. Further, we expect that any restructuring of the Bonds will require the approval of holders of more than a majority of the outstanding Bonds and, in some circumstances, unanimous approval will be required. Consequently, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such approval on satisfactory terms or at all. If the waiver grace period (or any extension thereof) expires or terminates, and we are unable to reach an agreement with Bond holders regarding an additional waiver or an agreement regarding the restructuring of our outstanding debt, the Bond holders may choose to accelerate our debt obligations under the Bond Indenture and demand immediate repayment in full and seek to foreclose on the collateral supporting such obligations. If our indebtedness under the Bond Indenture is accelerated or is not restructured on acceptable terms, it is likely that we will be unable to repay our debt and we may seek protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or similar relief. Our outstanding Bonds are secured by all of our assets, and a default could result in our debt holders taking title to all of our assets in order to satisfy our obligations to them, which could render our common stock valueless, as our debt holders may foreclose on our assets in an effort to be repaid amounts due under the Bonds and force us into bankruptcy. Our obligations under our existing Bonds are secured by a first priority security interest in all of our assets including our intellectual property. If we are unable to make the payments due on the Bonds, if we default on any of the conditions, restrictions or covenants of the Bonds, or if we become insolvent, the holders of the Bonds have a right to foreclose on, take possession of and liquidate all of our assets. Any such a default and the related foreclosure and liquidation could irreparably harm our financial condition and our ability to operate. As such, our Bond holders could force us into bankruptcy at any time, which could result in the complete failure of our business and stockholders would lose their entire investment in our Company. We currently have very limited assets that would most likely not be sufficient to cover existing debts if we had to liquidate. Consequently, if the Bond holders choose to accelerate our debt obligations under the Bond Indenture and demand immediate repayment in full, we may seek protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or similar relief. If we are unable to reach an agreement with our Bond holders regarding the restructuring of our outstanding debt obligations and obtain additional financing, we will likely be unable to comply with our Bond Indenture’s financial covenants. We are currently in discussions with our Bond holders regarding the restructuring of our debt obligations under the Bond Indenture and the avoidance of an acceleration of our debt obligations under the Bond Indenture. There is no assurance that we will reach such an agreement on terms favorable to us, or at all. Even though the Bond holders have granted a temporary waiver with respect to the breach of the covenant regarding the inclusion of a “going concern” paragraph in the report of our independent registered public accounting firm on our financial statements and other technical defaults by us, such waiver may expire or terminate without us having reached an agreement with the Bond holders regarding a restructuring. Further, based on our current cash flow projections, it is still likely that we will be in breach of the minimum liquidity covenant contained in the Bond Indenture in the second half of 2010. Consequently, we will need to reach an agreement with the Bond holders regarding a restructuring of our outstanding debt obligations to either remove such requirements or allow us to raise a sufficient amount of additional capital through the issuance of additional debt or equity securities or through asset dispositions or other means to maintain compliance with such requirements. If we are unable to successfully restructure the indebtedness outstanding under the Bond Indenture, we will likely breach the minimum liquidity covenant and the Bond holders may choose to accelerate our debt obligations under the Bond Indenture and demand immediate repayment in full and seek to foreclose on the collateral supporting such 26 Table of Contents obligations. If our indebtedness under the Bond Indenture is accelerated or is not restructured on acceptable terms, it is likely that we will be unable to repay our debt and we may seek protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or similar relief. Any uncertainty relating to our ability to restructure our debt could impair our ability to implement our business plan. As we continue our discussions with the Bond holders regarding a restructuring of our outstanding debt obligations, we will also need to continue to operate our business, maintain our relationships with our key employees, vendors and other third parties. Our key employees may seek opportunities elsewhere due to a lack of certainty regarding our financial situation. Vendors may be reluctant to extend credit as a result of our current financial situation. Similarly, our ability to grow our relationships with our current licensees and potential licensees may be significantly impaired due to the uncertainty regarding our financial situation. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with our key employees and vendors and grow our relationships with our current licensees and potential licensees, our ability to continue to operate and grow our business could be materially impaired. General Risks Related to Our Bonds and Bond Warrants Our substantial indebtedness could materially adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to operate our business, and could prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under the Bonds. Our substantial level of indebtedness under the Bond Indenture could have significant consequences to us, including, but not limited to, limiting our ability to raise additional capital. For example, since we are highly leveraged, we may not be able to sell additional securities or incur additional indebtedness on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. Additionally, we may have difficulty negotiating licensing agreements with potential licensors of our products/programs due to the concerns of potential licensors regarding our ability to continue to operate as a going concern as a result of our substantial level of indebtedness. Since we will require additional financing to continue our research and development programs, service our debt obligations and grow our business, our substantial level of indebtedness could have a materially adverse impact on our ability to operate our business and fulfill our obligations under the Bonds. Additionally, our substantial level of indebtedness under the Bond Indenture could have the following adverse impacts on our operations: • it will restrict us from making strategic acquisitions, introducing new products or services, or exploiting business opportunities; • it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and future business opportunities; • it may place us at a competitive disadvantage with our competitors that are not as highly leveraged; and • it may make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business, our industry, or the economy in general than our competitors who have less debt. In the event that we are able to come to an agreement with the Bond holders regarding the restructuring of our outstanding indebtedness, we will require additional financing to grow our business and service our debt obligations. We expect to continue to incur significant net losses and negative operating cash flows in the foreseeable future. We have five clinical-stage product candidates in development and will need to spend significant capital to fulfill planned operating goals and continue to conduct clinical and non-clinical trials, achieve regulatory approvals and, subject to such approvals, successfully produce products for commercialization. We will require substantial funds to continue our research and development programs and our future capital requirements may vary from what we expect. In addition, as our product candidates progress into later-stage clinical development, 27 Table of Contents we will be required to initiate larger, more costly trials. There are factors, many of which are outside our control, that may affect our future capital requirements and accelerate our need for additional financing. Furthermore, we have consistently elected to use the payment-in-kind (“PIK”) feature of the outstanding Bonds in lieu of making cash interest payments (“PIK Interest”) since the issuance of the Bonds. As a result, in each period in which we were entitled to make such an election in lieu of making interest payments on the Bonds, our debt increased by the amount of such interest. Our ability to continue to elect to pay interest in the form of PIK Interest ends in November 2010 and we will be required to make cash payments of interest in order to service the Bonds after such date. As a result of these factors, we do not expect to be able to achieve and maintain a level of cash flow from operations sufficient to permit us to service our Bonds and fund our operations and planned capital expenditures. Consequently, we will need to raise additional capital. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of new equity securities, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution, or the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. If we raise additional funds through debt financings, these financings may involve significant cash payment obligations and covenants that restrict our ability to operate our business and make distributions to our stockholders. We also could elect to seek funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain technologies, product candidates or products. To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies or our product candidates or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. We have no current commitments from any persons that they will provide any additional financing. Due to market conditions and the status of our product development pipeline, additional funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Having insufficient funds may require us to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our research or development programs or to relinquish greater or all rights to product candidates at an earlier stage of development or on less favorable terms than we would otherwise choose. Our failure to raise additional financing would adversely affect our ability to maintain, develop, enhance or grow our business, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. If we are unable to procure additional financing, we could face substantial liquidity problems and we could be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. In addition, our Bond Indenture restricts our ability to dispose of assets and could prevent us from undertaking dispositions that become necessary for us to meet our debt service obligations. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our indebtedness, including the cash payment of interest on the Bonds starting in November of this year, the Bond holders may choose to accelerate our debt obligations under the Bond Indenture and demand immediate repayment in full and seek to foreclose on the collateral supporting such obligations. If our indebtedness under the Bond Indenture is accelerated, it is likely that we will be unable to repay our debt and we may seek protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or similar relief. We are subject to a number of restrictive financial covenants and redemption provisions under the terms of our Bond Indenture which may restrict and limit our business and financing activities. The Bond Indenture and other documents governing our outstanding Bonds contain financial covenants requiring that we maintain a minimum liquidity level and contains limits on maximum capital expenditures. In addition, the Bond Indenture contains redemption provisions that, among other things, limit our ability to: • enter into outbound licensing agreements with third parties; • borrow money; • make certain investments; • use assets as security in other transactions; • create liens; 28 Table of Contents • merge or consolidate; and • transfer and sell assets. A failure to comply with these redemption provisions and covenants could result in a default under our Bonds. This could cause any or all of our Bonds to become immediately due and payable under acceleration provisions. If our debt were to be accelerated, it is likely that we will be unable to repay our debt and we may seek protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or similar relief. Our Bonds have a variable interest rate, which makes us vulnerable to increases in interest rates and could cause our interest expense to increase, make our debt service more difficult to manage and decrease cash available for operations and other purposes. Our indebtedness exposes us to interest rate increases because our Bonds are subject to variable rates. We may incur additional debt in the future that also bears interest at variable rates. Variable rate debt creates higher debt service requirements if market interest rates increase, which would adversely affect our funds from operations. At present, we do not have any derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps or hedges to mitigate interest rate variability. The interest rates under our Bond Indenture will be reset at varying periods. These interest rate adjustments could expose our operating results and cash flows to periodic fluctuations. Our annual debt service obligations will increase by approximately $1.9 million per year for each 1% increase in the average interest rate we pay based on the $186.5 million balance of variable rate debt outstanding at December 31, 2009. If interest rates rise in the future, and particularly, if they rise significantly, our ability to service our debt obligations will be negatively affected. Any increase in the interest rates will increase our expenses and reduce funds available for our operations and future business opportunities. Increases in interest rates will also increase the risks resulting from our significant debt levels. Future issuances of common stock, including issuance of common stock as a result of the restructuring of our outstanding debt, additional financings, or upon exercise of Bond Warrants held by holders of our Bonds, will severely dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders and may further depress the trading price of our common stock. Any new issuance of equity securities as a result of the restructuring of our outstanding debt, additional financings, or upon exercise of Bond Warrants held by holders of our Bonds will likely severely dilute the interests of our existing stockholders, and any sales in the public market of any common stock issuable upon such exercise could adversely affect trading prices of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of losses and expect to continue to incur losses and may not achieve profitability. We have incurred net losses every year since our inception in 1997 and have generated no significant revenue from product sales and have received limited revenue from licenses to date. As of December 31, 2009, we had a deficit accumulated of approximately $292.9 million. We expect to incur additional losses for at least the next several years and cannot be certain that we will ever achieve profitability. As a result, our business is subject to all of the risks inherent in the development of a new business enterprise, such as the risk that we may not obtain substantial additional capital needed to support the expenses of developing our technology and commercializing our potential products; develop a market for our potential products; successfully transition from a company with a research focus to a company capable of either manufacturing and selling potential products or profitably licensing our potential products to others; and/or attract and retain qualified management, technical and scientific staff. If we fail to attract and retain senior management, consultants, advisors and scientific and technical personnel, our product development and commercialization efforts could be impaired. Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance of our senior management and key scientific and technical personnel, particularly Daniel L. Peters, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and John W. 29 Table of Contents Babich, our Executive Vice-President and Chief Scientific Officer. Although we have entered into employment agreements with certain members of our current senior management, there is no assurance that they will remain in our employ for the entire term of such employment agreements. The loss of the services of any member of our senior management or our scientific or technical staff may significantly delay or prevent the development of our product candidates and other business objectives by diverting management’s attention to transition matters and identification of suitable replacements, if any, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. We maintain key man life insurance on John Babich. We also rely on consultants and advisors to assist us in formulating our research and development strategy. All of our consultants and advisors are either self-employed or employed by other organizations, and they may have conflicts of interest or other commitments, such as consulting or advisory contracts with other organizations, that may affect their ability to contribute to us. In addition, it is important that we retain our core executive management and scientific and technical personnel. There is currently intense competition for skilled executives and employees with relevant scientific and technical expertise, and this competition is likely to continue. The inability to retain sufficient scientific, technical and managerial personnel or quickly recruit and attract qualified replacements could limit or delay our product development efforts, which could adversely affect the development of our product candidates and commercialization of our potential products and growth of our business. A substantial portion of our funding comes from federal government grants and research contracts. We cannot rely on these grants or contracts as a continuing source of funds. A substantial portion of our revenue to date has been derived from federal government grants and research contracts. As of December 31, 2009, we were awarded in the aggregate, approximately $3.1 million in grants from National Institutes of Health, or NIH and gross proceeds of $2.1 million remained to be received under our various NIH grants, which include potential reimbursements for our employees’ time and benefits and other expenses related to performance under various contracts. The government’s obligation to make payments under these grants and contracts is subject to appropriation by the U.S. Congress for funding in each year. It is possible that Congress or the government agencies that administer these government research programs will decide to scale back these programs or terminate them due to their own budgetary constraints. Additionally, these grants and research contracts are subject to adjustment based upon the results of periodic audits performed on behalf of the granting authority. Consequently, the government may not award grants or research contracts to us in the future, and any amounts that we derive from existing grants or contracts may be less than the awarded amounts. Additionally, significant government investment and allocation of resources to assist the economic recovery of other sectors may reduce the resources available for government grants and related funding for life sciences research and development. Our ability to obtain financing from government grants is subject to the availability of funds under applicable government programs and approval of our applications to participate in such programs. We cannot provide assurances that our efforts to obtain such funds from these government sources will be successful. In the event we are not successful in obtaining any new government grants or extensions to existing grants, we may have to reduce the scope of, or discontinue, some of our programs, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Our government grants and government contracts are subject to unique risks. In addition to normal business risks, our contracts with the U.S. government are subject to unique risks, some of which are beyond our control. All of our government contracts contain provisions which make them terminable at the convenience of the government. The government could terminate, reduce or delay the funding under any of our grants at any time without prior notice at its convenience upon payment for work done and commitments made at the time of termination. Our contract costs are subject to audits by U.S. government agencies. U.S. government representatives may audit the costs we incur on our U.S. government contracts, including allocated indirect costs. Such audits could result in adjustments to our contract costs. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will 30 Table of Contents not be reimbursed, and such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. If any audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government. We license patent rights from third-party owners. If such owners do not properly maintain or enforce the patents underlying such licenses, our competitive position and business prospects could be harmed. We are party to a number of licenses that give us rights to third-party intellectual property that is necessary or useful for our business. In particular, we have obtained the nonexclusive rights from Novartis, for certain radiolabeled somatostatin analogs and the exclusive rights to the particular somatostatin analog compound edotreotide (the parent compound of Onalta), along with know-how related to the manufacture and use of this compound. We may enter into additional licensing agreements to license third-party intellectual property in the future. Our success could depend in part on the ability of our licensors to obtain, maintain and enforce patent protection for their intellectual property, in particular, those patents to which we have secured exclusive rights. Our licensors may not successfully prosecute the patent applications to which we are licensed. Even if patents issue with respect to these patent applications, our licensors may fail to maintain these patents, may determine not to pursue litigation against other companies that are infringing these patents, or may pursue such litigation less aggressively than we could. In addition, our licensors may terminate their agreements with us in the event we breach the applicable license agreement and fail to cure the breach within a specified period of time. Without protection for the intellectual property we license, other companies might be able to offer substantially identical products for sale, which could adversely affect our competitive business position and harm our business prospects. Under the license agreement with Novartis has retained an option to reacquire rights in the compound if annual sales exceed a certain threshold level. If Novartis does exercise this call back option, we will be required to sell to Novartis the rights in the compound which may have a negative effect on our operating results. We out-license certain of our product candidates to third parties for further development and commercialization. If such licensees fail in their development or commercialization efforts or default under our agreements with them, we will be harmed. We began out-licensing Onalta to BioMedica in September 2009 for development in certain countries in Europe, the Middle East, North Africa, Russia and Turkey. We plan to explore out-license opportunities for our other products and/or programs, including, but not limited to, Azedra, Trofex or Zemiva. It is possible that we could be unsuccessful in our attempts to out-license these products and/or programs. In the event that we are successful in out-licensing any of these products and/or programs, our revenue from licensing payments from any licensee will depend on whether such licensee is ultimately successful in the development of the products and/or programs. Accordingly, it is possible that we may not receive any substantial financial benefit from any out-license of these products and/or programs in the short term. Our revenue from these licenses will be limited if the licensees are not successful in developing and commercializing products in the licensed territories. Additionally, our licensees may terminate or fail to perform their obligations under our agreements or have internal liquidity issues, in which case our ability to review payments from them will be significantly impaired. There is no guarantee that our licensees will be able to pay fees to us at all. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal controls and attestations of the effectiveness of new internal controls by our independent auditors. Our failure to maintain the effectiveness of our internal controls in accordance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business. We could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. 31 Table of Contents In addition, our Bonds contain a covenant requirement that we obtain a statement from our auditors that we are in compliance at the end of each fiscal year with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act regarding our system of internal control over financial reporting. Failure to be in compliance will result in a default under the Bond Indenture. We cannot provide assurances that we will receive a statement that we are in compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act from our independent auditors, or that we will receive a waiver of the default from our Bondholders. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price has resulted in our failure to meet NASDAQ Global Market continued listing requirements, which could result in NASDAQ delisting of our common stock. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. On March 9, 2010, we received a letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market (“NASDAQ”) notifying us that for the 30 consecutive business days preceding the date of the letter, we failed to maintain the minimum $50 million Market Value of Listed Securities requirement for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market pursuant to NASDAQ Listing Rule 5450(b)(2)(A) (the “MVLS Rule”). NASDAQ further advised that in accordance with NASDAQ Listing Rule 5810(c)(3)(C), we have a grace period of 180 calendar days, or until September 7, 2010, to regain compliance with the MVLS Rule. NASDAQ will deem us to have regained compliance with the MVLS Rule if at any time during the 180-day grace period our Market Value of Listed Securities (the “MVLS”) closes at $50,000,000 or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days. We will actively monitor our MVLS between now and September 7, 2010, and will consider available options to resolve the deficiency and regain compliance with the MVLS Rule. In the event that we are unable to regain compliance with the MVLS Rule prior to September 7, 2010, we plan to apply to transfer our common stock to the NASDAQ Capital Market provided that we satisfy the requirements for continued listing on that market, otherwise we will receive written notification from Nasdaq that our securities are subject to delisting. Additionally, in order to maintain our listing, we are required to satisfy other minimum financial and continued listing requirements, including, without limitation, maintaining a $1.00 per share minimum closing bid price for our common stock (the “Minimum Bid Price Rule”). Our common stock has recently traded at a low of $1.05 per share on February 17, 2010. If the closing bid price of our common stock goes below $1.00 for 30 consecutive business days, we would receive another deficiency notice from NASDAQ stating that our common stock fails to meet the Minimum Bid Price Rule. To regain compliance, our common stock would need to close at $1.00 or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days during the 180 calendar days following our receipt of such a notice. If we are unable to regain compliance within 180 calendar days with the Minimum Bid Price Rule, we will be subject to delisting unless we apply to transfer our common stock to the NASDAQ Capital Market provided that we satisfy the requirements for continued listing on that market. There can be no assurance that we will be able to reestablish or maintain compliance with listing criteria on either NASDAQ market. Given current economic conditions and the volatility of our stock price, there is no guarantee that we will regain compliance with the MVLS Rule for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market or satisfy the requirements for transferring our listing to the NASDAQ Capital Market. If we are unable to meet either the MVLS Rule or the Minimum Bid Price Rule, or if we fail to satisfy any other continued listing standards under the NASDAQ Global Market rules, NASDAQ may commence delisting proceedings against us. If we were to be delisted, the market liquidity of our common stock and the value of our stock would likely be adversely affected. Although our common stock may be traded over-the-counter or on pink sheets, these types of listings involve more risk and trade less frequently and in smaller volumes than securities traded on NASDAQ. A delisting could also adversely affect our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations and/or result in the loss of confidence by our investors, business partners and employees. If we are not listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market and/or if our public float remains below $75 million, we will be limited in our ability to file new shelf registration statements on Form S-3 and/or to fully use one or more registration statements on Form S-3 that have 32 Table of Contents been filed with the SEC. Any such limitations might have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise the capital we need for the continuation of our operations. Our stock is subject to short selling, which could cause trading in our common stock and our stock price to be volatile, and the anticipation of a volatile stock price could cause greater volatility. There has been active shorting on our stock, and from time to time when short sales are covered, this has had the effect of having fluctuations in our stock price. Short selling and possible market price manipulation of our common stock may cause trading in our common stock to be volatile and has a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. The anticipation of a volatile stock price could cause even greater volatility in our stock trading and could further adversely affect our stock price. The short selling and volatility of our stock may cause the value of a stockholder’s investment to decline rapidly. Our stock price may be highly volatile, and your investment in our stock could decline in value. The market prices for securities of biotechnology companies in general have been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile in the future. The following factors, in addition to other risk factors described in this section, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock: • our ability to successfully restructure the Bonds; • if we restructure the Bonds, the terms of the restructuring, including the debt and its terms and the type and number of equity securities issued in any such restructuring; • any expiration or termination of the Bond holder waiver relating to the inclusion of a “going concern” paragraph in our auditor’s audit opinion prior to any restructuring of the Bonds; • results from and any delays in the clinical trials programs; • failure or delays in entering additional product candidates into clinical trials; • failure or discontinuation of any of our research programs; • delays in establishing new strategic relationships; • delays in the development of our product candidates and commercialization of our potential products; • market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors and issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports or recommendations; • general economic conditions, including recent adverse changes in the global financial markets; • actual and anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial and operating results; • developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights; • introduction of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; • issues in manufacturing our product candidates or products; • market acceptance of our products; • third-party healthcare reimbursement policies; • FDA or other United States or foreign regulatory actions affecting us or our industry; • litigation or public concern about the safety of our product candidates or products; • additions or departures of key personnel; • third-party sales of large blocks of our common stock; 33 Table of Contents • sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors or significant stockholders; and • equity sales by us of our common stock to fund our operations. These and other external factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. In addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. A significant portion of our outstanding shares that are restricted as a result of securities law could be sold into the market in the near future. This could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. We had outstanding 25,268,327 shares of common stock as of March 12, 2010. The shares that were sold in our IPO may be resold in the public market freely. On May 9, 2008, we registered 4,030,543 shares of common stock owned by certain existing stockholders on a registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC. These shares may be sold into the public market in the near future. As of March 12, 2010, 8,622,021 shares of our common stock are restricted as a result of securities laws. These restricted shares may be sold by “affiliates” and by non-“affiliates” who have held such shares for less than one year after meeting certain requirements of Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (“the Securities Act”) and may be sold by non-“affiliates” who have held such shares for longer than one year without meeting certain requirements of the Securities Act. Future sales or other issuances of our common stock could depress the market for our common stock and dilute existing stockholders. On August 28, 2009, we filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (SEC file No. 333-161601), which was declared effective by the SEC on September 11, 2009. Under this shelf registration statement, which gives us the flexibility to raise funds of up to $250,000,000 through the sale of a variety of securities, we may raise money by the sale of our equity or debt securities or debt, warrants, stock purchase contracts or stock purchase units. However, given uncertain market conditions and the volatility of our stock price, we may not be able to sell our securities in public offerings or private placements at prices and/or on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. Also, if we are able to sell our securities, any sales of large quantities of our securities could reduce the price of our common stock, and, to the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities pursuant to our effective shelf registration statements or otherwise, our existing stockholders’ ownership will be diluted. Evolving regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses and continuing uncertainty. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations, and Nasdaq National Market rules are creating uncertainty for public companies. As a result of these new rules, we could incur additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. In addition, these new rules could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and this could make it difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors. We are constantly evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to new and proposed rules and cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. These new or changed laws, regulations, and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by 34 Table of Contents regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations, and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations, and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed. Several institutions have large investments in our common stock, bonds and warrants. One, or a combination of, these institutions may be able to exert substantial influence over our management and board of directors and, through them, affect our corporate policies and management’s decisions. Their interests may conflict with your interests as an investor in our common stock. Several institutions have made large investments in our common stock, bonds and/or warrants. As a result, these institutions, operating singly or together, may be able to exert substantial influence over our management and board of directors and, as a result, affect our corporate policies and management’s decisions relating to key corporate actions. These institutions may also from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us, or independently pursue acquisition opportunities that could otherwise be complementary to our business. In addition, our directors may authorize transactions, such as acquisitions, that involve risks to the interests of our Bondholders and common stockholders. These institutions’ interests may not be aligned, and may conflict, with your interests as an investor in our common stock, bonds, or warrants. We have never paid dividends on our common stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock to date. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our capital stock for the foreseeable future. In addition, the terms of existing or any future debt facilities may preclude us from paying dividends on our stock. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock could be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. Some provisions of our Restated Articles of Organization and Amended and Restated Bylaws may inhibit potential acquisition bids that you may consider favorable. Our Restated Articles of Organization and Amended and Restated Bylaws contain provisions that may enable our Board of Directors to resist a change in control of our company even if a change in control were to be considered favorable by stockholders. These provisions include: • the authorization of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; • advance notice procedures required for stockholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before an annual meeting of stockholders; • limitations on persons authorized to call a meeting of stockholders; • a staggered Board of Directors; and • supermajority voting requirements to remove directors from office. These and other provisions contained in our charter and bylaws could delay or discourage transactions involving an actual or potential change in control of us or our management, including transactions which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current prices, and may limit the 35 Table of Contents ability of stockholders to remove our current management or approve transactions that our stockholders may deem to be in their best interest and, therefore, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Product Candidates We are largely dependent on the success of our lead product candidates, Azedra, Onalta, Trofex, Solazed, and Zemiva, and we may not be able to successfully commercialize these potential products. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs relating to the development and marketing of our lead product candidates, Azedra, Onalta, Trofex, Solazed, and Zemiva. We have not obtained approval to market these potential products in any jurisdiction and we may never be able to obtain approval or, if approvals are obtained, to commercialize these products successfully. If we fail to successfully commercialize these products, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenue to sustain and grow our business, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be adversely affected. We have also been working on identifying and developing product candidates in addition to Azedra, Onalta, Trofex, Solazed, and Zemiva. We do not know whether our planned preclinical development or clinical trials for these other product candidates will begin on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. In addition, we do not know whether any of our clinical trials will result in marketable products. We do not anticipate that any additional product candidates will reach the market for at least several years, if at all. If we fail to obtain foreign and U.S. regulatory approval of Azedra, Onalta, Trofex, Solazed, or Zemiva, or any of our other current or future product candidates, we will be unable to commercialize these potential products in and outside the United States. In September 2009, we entered into a Territory License Agreement with BioMedica of Athens, Greece for commercialization of Onalta in certain European countries, the Middle East, North Africa, Russia and Turkey. Under the Agreement, BioMedica is expected to perform clinical studies and to secure all regulatory approvals to market, sell and distribute Onalta within its licensed territories. There are risks and uncertainties related to BioMedica’s ability to obtain regulatory approval for Onalta in the specified territories, and the progress, timing, cost, and results of clinical trials and product development by BioMedica. The development, testing, manufacturing and marketing of our product candidates are subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and throughout the world. In particular, the process of obtaining FDA or EMEA approval is costly and time consuming, and the time required for such approval is uncertain. Our product candidates must undergo rigorous preclinical and clinical testing and an extensive regulatory approval process mandated by the FDA or EMEA. Such regulatory review includes the determination of manufacturing capability and product performance. Generally, only a small percentage of pharmaceutical products are ultimately approved for commercial sale. There can be no assurance that our current or future product candidates will be approved by the FDA, EMEA or any other governmental body. In addition, there can be no assurance that all necessary approvals will be granted for future product candidates or that review or actions will not involve delays caused by requests for additional information or testing that could adversely affect the time to market for and sale of our product candidates. Further, failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can, among other things, result in the suspension of regulatory approval as well as possible civil and criminal sanctions. Failure to enroll patients in our clinical trials may cause delays in developing Azedra, Onalta, Trofex, Solazed, or Zemiva, or any of our other current or future product candidates. We may encounter delays in the development and commercialization, or fail to obtain marketing approval, of Azedra, Onalta, Trofex, Solazed, or Zemiva, or any other future product candidate if we are unable to enroll enough patients to complete clinical trials. Our ability to enroll sufficient numbers of patients in our clinical trials depends on many factors, including the nature and severity of illness of the population, the size of the patient population, the nature of the clinical protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the trial and competing clinical trials. In particular, it may be very difficult to find patients to enroll in our 36 Table of Contents clinical trials of Azedra and Onalta, as we have received the Orphan Drug designation for Azedra and for Onalta. Orphan drug designation is intended to treat a “rare disease or condition” which generally is a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States. Delays in planned patient enrollment may result in increased costs and harm our ability to complete our clinical trials and obtain regulatory approval. Delays in clinical testing could result in increased costs to us and delay our ability to generate revenue. Significant delays in clinical testing could materially increase our product development costs. We have spent all of the net proceeds raised in our initial public offering and utilizing the net proceeds from the subsequent sale of Bonds and Warrants in connection with additional clinical trials for Azedra, Onalta, Trofex, Solazed, and Zemiva. We do not know whether planned clinical trials could begin on time, or require to be restructured or could be completed on schedule, if at all. Clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in obtaining regulatory approval to commence and continue a study, delays in reaching agreement on acceptable clinical study terms with prospective sites, delays in obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a study at a prospective site and delays in recruiting patients to participate in a study. In addition, we typically rely on third-party clinical investigators to conduct our clinical trials and other third-party organizations to oversee the operations of these clinical trials and to perform data collection and analysis. As a result, we may face additional delays outside of our control if these parties do not perform their obligations in a timely fashion. Significant delays in testing or regulatory approvals for any of our current or future product candidates, including Azedra, Onalta, Trofex, Solazed, and Zemiva, could prevent or cause delays in the commercialization of such product candidates, reduce potential revenues from the sale of such product candidates and cause our costs to increase. Our clinical trials for any of our current or future product candidates may produce negative or inconclusive results and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical and/or preclinical testing for these product candidates or cease our trials. We do not know whether our existing or future clinical trials could demonstrate safety and efficacy sufficiently to result in marketable products. Because our clinical trials for Azedra, Onalta, Trofex, Solazed, and Zemiva, and our other product candidates may produce negative or inconclusive results, we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical and/or preclinical testing for these product candidates or cease our clinical trials. If this occurs, we may not be able to obtain approval for these product candidates or our anticipated time to market these product candidates may be substantially delayed and we may also experience significant additional development costs. We may also be required to undertake additional clinical testing if we change or expand the indications for our product candidates. We could only receive regulatory approval to commercialize a product candidate if we can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA, or the applicable foreign regulatory agency, that the product candidate is safe and effective. If approved, the commercialization of our product candidates, including Azedra, Onalta, Trofex, Solazed, and Zemiva, may not be profitable due to the need to develop manufacturing, sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, or make arrangements with a third party to perform these functions. In order for the commercialization of our potential products to be profitable, our products must be cost-effective and economical to manufacture on a commercial scale. Subject to regulatory approval, we expect to incur significant sales, marketing, distribution and, to the extent we do not outsource manufacturing, manufacturing expenses in connection with the commercialization of Azedra, Onalta, Trofex, Solazed, and Zemiva, and our other potential products as we do not currently have a dedicated sales force, and we have no experience in the manufacturing, sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products. In order to commercialize Azedra, Onalta, Trofex, Solazed, or Zemiva, or any of our other potential products that we develop, we must develop manufacturing, sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or make arrangements with a third party to perform these functions. Developing a sales force is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to develop this capacity. If we are unable to establish adequate manufacturing, sales, marketing 37 Table of Contents and distribution capabilities, independently or with others, we may not be able to generate significant revenue and may not become profitable. Our future profitability will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to: • the costs and timing of developing and operating a commercial scale manufacturing facility or the costs of outsourcing the manufacturing of Azedra, Onalta, Trofex, Solazed, and Zemiva; • receipt of FDA approval of Azedra, Onalta, Trofex, Solazed, and Zemiva, and our other product candidates, as applicable; • the terms of any marketing restrictions or post-marketing commitments imposed as a condition of approval by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities; • the costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights; • costs of establishing sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; • the effect of competing technological and market developments; and • the terms and timing of any collaborative, licensing and other arrangements that we may establish. Even if we receive regulatory approval for Azedra, Onalta, Trofex, Solazed, or Zemiva, or any of our other product candidates, we may never receive significant revenues from any of them. To the extent that we are not successful in commercializing our potential products, we will incur significant additional losses and the price of our common stock could be negatively affected. We do not have patent rights to the composition of Zemiva, and if we cannot gain and exploit a period of marketing exclusivity under the Food, Drug & Cosmetic Act, as amended, we may not be able to successfully commercialize Zemiva or our other product candidates. We do not have patent rights to the composition of Zemiva. The original patent protecting BMIPP, the underlying active molecule in Zemiva, expired in 2003. We believe that Zemiva is a new chemical entity in the United States and could be eligible for market exclusivity under the FDCA, as amended by the Hatch-Waxman Act of 1984. A drug can be classified as a new chemical entity if the FDA has not previously approved any other new drug containing the same active agent. Under sections 505(c)(3)(D)(ii) and 505(j)(5)(D)(ii) of the FDCA, as amended by the Hatch-Waxman Act of 1984, a new chemical entity that is granted regulatory approvals may, in the absence of patent protections, be eligible for five years of marketing exclusivity in the United States following regulatory approval. This marketing exclusivity could protect us from any other applicant utilizing the materials in support of our new drug application, or NDA, during the exclusivity period. However, there is no assurance that Zemiva could be considered a new chemical entity for these purposes or be entitled to the period of marketing exclusivity. If we are not able to gain or exploit the period of marketing exclusivity, we may not be able to successfully commercialize Zemiva or may face significant competitive threats to such commercialization from other manufacturers, including the manufacturers of generic alternatives. Further, even if Zemiva is considered a new chemical entity and we are able to gain five years of marketing exclusivity, another company could also gain such marketing exclusivity under the provisions of the FDCA, as amended by the Hatch-Waxman Act if such company can complete a full NDA with a complete human clinical trial process and obtain regulatory approval of its product. Our proprietary rights may not adequately protect our intellectual property and product candidates and if we cannot obtain adequate protection of our intellectual property and product candidates, we may not be able to successfully market our product candidates. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining and maintaining intellectual property protection for our technologies and product candidates. We will only be able to protect our technologies and product candidates from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that valid and enforceable patents cover them, or other market exclusionary rights apply. Our lead cardiovascular molecular imaging candidate, Zemiva, is not covered by patent rights. We hold the patent rights to our second generation cardiac candidate, a derivative of 38 Table of Contents Zemiva. Because Zemiva itself is not patented, we depend on obtaining the five year period of marketing exclusivity under the FDCA for Zemiva as a new chemical entity. Failure to obtain this marketing exclusivity right could permit competitors to gain access to the market for Zemiva. While we have obtained enforceable patents covering our oncology product candidate Trofex, our neurology product candidate which is not in active development and our Ultratrace radiolabeling technology platform, some of our patent rights for these compounds and technologies are still pending patent applications. We cannot guarantee these patent applications will issue as patents. The patent positions of life sciences companies, like ours, can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in such companies’ patents has emerged to date in the United States. The general patent environment outside the United States also involves significant uncertainty. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or that the scope of these patent rights could provide a sufficient degree of future protection that could permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage with respect to these products and technology. Additionally, life science companies like ours are dependent on creating a pipeline of products. We may not be able to develop additional proprietary technologies or product candidates that produce commercially viable products or that are themselves patentable. Our issued patents may be subject to challenge and possibly invalidated by third parties. Changes in either the patent laws or in the interpretations of patent laws in the United States or other countries may diminish the market exclusionary ability of our intellectual property. In addition, others may independently develop similar or alternative compounds and technologies that may be outside the scope of our intellectual property. Should third parties obtain patent rights to similar compounds or radiolabeling technology, this may have an adverse effect on our business. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. In particular, we rely on trade secrets to protect certain manufacturing aspects of our compound Zemiva. Trade secrets, however, are difficult to protect. While we believe that we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our own or our strategic partners’ employees, consultants, contractors or advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. We seek to protect this information, in part, through the use of non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, advisors and others. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for a breach. In addition, we cannot ensure that those agreements could provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information and prevent their unauthorized use or disclosure. To the extent that consultants or key employees apply technological information independently developed by them or by others to our product candidates, disputes may arise as to the proprietary rights of the information, which may not be resolved in our favor. Consultants and key employees that work with our confidential and proprietary technologies are required to assign all intellectual property rights in their discoveries to us. However, these consultants or key employees may terminate their relationship with us, and we cannot preclude them indefinitely from dealing with our competitors. If our trade secrets become known to competitors with greater experience and financial resources, the competitors may copy or use our trade secrets and other proprietary information in the advancement of their products, methods or technologies. If we were to prosecute a claim that a third party had illegally obtained and was using our trade secrets, it could be expensive and time consuming and the outcome could be unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets than courts in the United States. Moreover, if our competitors independently develop equivalent knowledge, we would lack any contractual claim to this information, and our business could be harmed. Our ability to commercialize our product candidates will depend on our ability to sell such products without infringing the patent or proprietary rights of third parties. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, such litigation could be costly and time consuming and an unfavorable outcome could have a significant adverse effect on our business. Our ability to commercialize our product candidates will depend on our ability to sell such products without infringing the patents or other proprietary rights of third parties. Third-party intellectual property in the fields of 39 Table of Contents cardiology, oncology, neurology, and radiopharmaceutical technologies are complicated, and third-party intellectual property rights in these fields are continuously evolving. We have not performed searches for third-party intellectual property rights that may raise freedom-to-operate issues, and we have not obtained legal opinions regarding commercialization of our product candidates. As such, there may be existing patents that may affect our ability to commercialize our product candidates. In addition, because patent applications are published 18 months after their filing, and because applications can take several years to issue, there may be currently pending third-party patent applications that are unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents. If a third-party claims that we infringe on its patents or other proprietary rights, we could face a number of issues that could seriously harm our competitive position, including: • infringement claims that, with or without merit, can be costly and time consuming to litigate, can delay the regulatory approval process and can divert management’s attention from our core business strategy; • substantial damages for past infringement which we may have to pay if a court determines that our products or technologies infringe upon a competitor’s patent or other proprietary rights; • a court order prohibiting us from commercializing our products or technologies unless the holder licenses the patent or other proprietary rights to us, which such holder is not required to do; • if a license is available from a holder, we may have to pay substantial royalties or grant cross licenses to our patents or other proprietary rights; and • redesigning our process so that it does not infringe the third-party intellectual property, which may not be possible, or which may require substantial time and expense including delays in bringing our own products to market. Such actions could harm our competitive position and our ability to generate revenue and could result in increased costs. We may be unable to obtain Orphan Drug marketing exclusivity for certain of our product candidates and if another party obtains Orphan Drug exclusivity instead, approval of our product for the same indication could be prevented for seven years. Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant Orphan Drug designation to drugs intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is defined by the FDA as a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States. Orphan Drug designation does not shorten the development or regulatory review time of a drug, but does provide limited advantages in the regulatory review and approval process. The company that obtains the first FDA approval for a designated Orphan Drug indication receives marketing exclusivity for use of that drug for that indication for a period of seven years. Moreover, even if we obtain Orphan Drug exclusivity for one or more indications, our exclusivity may be lost if the FDA later determines that the request for designation was materially defective, or if we are unable to assure sufficient commercial quantity of the drug. Orphan Drug exclusivity for Azedra and Onalta also could not prevent a competitor from obtaining approval of a different drug to treat the same Orphan Drug indications. If our product candidates, including Azedra, Onalta, Trofex, Solazed, and Zemiva, do not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients and the medical community, we may be unable to generate significant revenue, if any. The products that we develop may not achieve market acceptance among physicians, patients, third-party payers and others in the medical community. If we receive the regulatory approvals necessary for commercialization, the degree of market acceptance could depend upon a number of factors, including: • limited indications of regulatory approvals; • the establishment and demonstration in the medical community of the clinical efficacy and safety of our product candidates and their potential advantages over existing diagnostic compounds; 40 Table of Contents • the prevalence and severity of any side effects; • our ability to offer our product candidates at an acceptable price; • the relative convenience and ease of administration of our products; • the strength of marketing and distribution support; and • sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. The market may not accept Azedra, Onalta, Trofex, Solazed, or Zemiva, based on any number of the above factors. If Trofex is approved, its primary competition could be the current standard of care in the assessment of metastatic prostate cancer. If Zemiva is approved, its primary competition in the emergency department setting could be the then current standard of care, which involves several diagnostic products, and its primary competition in the non-acute setting could be existing perfusion agents such as Cardiolite and Myoview. As of the time that Azedra, Onalta, Trofex, Solazed, and Zemiva are approved, there may be other therapies available which directly compete for the same indications. The market may choose to continue utilizing the existing products for any number of reasons, including familiarity with or pricing of these existing products. The failure of any of our product candidates to gain market acceptance could impair our ability to generate revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have no commercial manufacturing facility currently in production for Azedra, Onalta, Trofex, Solazed, Zemiva or any of our other product candidates and have no experience in manufacturing products for commercial purposes and the failure to find manufacturing partners or create a functioning manufacturing facility ourselves could have an adverse impact on our ability to grow our business. We currently have no active commercial manufacturing facility in production for Azedra, Onalta, Trofex, Solazed, Zemiva or our other product candidates. In October 2007, we purchased a domestic radiopharmaceutical manufacturing facility in Denton, Texas. As of December 31, 2009, the facility was not yet placed in service. The facility was originally intended to be used for the manufacture of molecular imaging and targeted radiotherapeutic product candidates. Completion of the build-out of the facility was previously deferred until manufacturing requirements for our clinical trials were determined. Concurrent with the change in senior management, research specialists were engaged to evaluate the market potentials of each of our product candidates. Based on the results of these studies, plans with respect to the utilization of the facility have changed and there is no current plan to utilize it. We are dependent on third parties to supply our product candidates according to our specifications, in sufficient quantities, on time, in compliance with appropriate regulatory standards and at competitive prices. In October 2009 we contracted with EZN to construct an exclusive suite dedicated to radiolabel Onalta and manufacture and supply Onalta for clinical trials and commercial production outside the United States, however, such facility is not operational yet. The EMEA has reviewed and accepted Onalta’s Phase 3 clinical trial protocol design and has granted Onalta Orphan Drug Designation, however we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain an adequate supply of our Onalta on acceptable terms, or at all. In October 2009, we entered into a Supply Agreement with BioMedica in connection with the BioMedica Territory License Agreement. Our ability to supply Onalta to BioMedica is dependent on manufacture by EZN, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain an adequate supply of Onalta on acceptable terms, or at all, to meet our supply obligations. We are under an obligation to make certain advance payments for construction of the exclusive suite, and if we fail to do so in a timely manner, construction will be delayed or halted. This may affect our ability to secure supplies of Onalta. In August 2009 we contracted with a Canadian company, MDS Nordion, to construct a dedicated facility to radiolabel Azedra and manufacture and supply Azedra for our clinical trials and commercial production, however, such facility is not operational yet. Although MDS Nordion supplies Azedra in connection with our current clinical trials, we do not have a dedicated functioning commercial manufacturing facility for large scale production of Azedra at MDS Nordion. Azedra has completed a Phase 1 and is commencing recruiting for 41 Table of Contents pivotal Phase II clinical trials, however we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain an adequate supply of Azedra on acceptable terms, or at all. We are under an obligation to make certain advance payments for construction of the facility, and if we fail to do so in a timely manner, construction will be delayed or halted. This may affect our ability to secure supplies of Azedra. We have contracted with MDS Nordion, to radiolabel BMIPP and manufacture and supply Zemiva for our clinical trials and commercial production. We do have a functioning commercial manufacturing facility for Zemiva at MDS Nordion. In January 2010, w received a notice from MDS Nordion of its intent to terminate the Zemiva Supply Agreement effective upon the expiration of the initial term on January 12, 2012. We cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain an adequate supply of our product candidates on acceptable terms, or at all. Zemiva is BMIPP that has been radiolabeled with I-123. We are currently aware of only one commercial provider of BMIPP, TCI America, in Portland, Oregon. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient amounts of BMIPP from this provider to produce adequate quantities of Zemiva. If this provider is unable to meet our demand, we could be required to find alternative sources of BMIPP including producing BMIPP ourselves or contracting with third parties to produce BMIPP. We are not aware of any proprietary or technical reasons prohibiting the manufacture of BMIPP by us or a third party. However finding an alternative source for Zemiva could likely result in unforeseen costs and delays to the commercialization of Zemiva. Manufacturers supplying biopharmaceutical products must comply with FDA regulations which require, among other things, compliance with the FDA’s evolving regulations on cGMPs, which are enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. The manufacture of products at any facility will be subject to strict quality control, testing and record keeping requirements, and continuing obligations regarding the submission of safety reports and other post-market information. Since the commercial manufacturing facilities for Azedra, Onalta and Zemiva have not been constructed, the FDA and EMEA have not certified the cGMP compliant manufacture of Azedra, Onalta and Zemiva. We cannot guarantee that the resultant facility will pass FDA and/or EMEA inspection, or that future changes to cGMP manufacturing standards will not also affect the cGMP compliant manufacture of Azedra, Onalta and Zemiva. Trofex is under preliminary review in connection with an exploratory IND, and Solazed is in preclinical stages, and our other product candidates are in discovery stages. We have no commercial cGMP manufacturing capability for Trofex, Solazed or these other product candidates, and currently no third-party manufacturer for them. As such, we may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of these product candidates as we develop our pre-clinical or clinical programs for these compounds. We will need to enter into additional manufacturing arrangements for the manufacturing needs for Trofex, Solazed and all other product candidates. We have not yet determined if we will construct our own manufacturing facility for these product candidates. While we have signed an agreement with MDS Nordion for the commercial manufacture and supply of Azedra, we cannot guarantee that MDS Nordion will be contracted to fulfill this role, or if another manufacturer will be sought. We cannot guarantee that a suitable manufacturer for these product candidates will be found, or that we will be able to secure manufacturing agreements on acceptable terms with any of these manufacturers. We also cannot guarantee that such manufacturer will be able to supply sufficient quantities of our product candidates, or that they will meet the requirements for clinical testing and cGMP manufacturing. Termination of agreements in the Onalta and Azedra supply chains as well as agreements with other third parties can have adverse financial consequences. Pursuant to our agreement for supply of Azedra with MDS Nordion, we are responsible for certain exit payments following termination of the agreement for any reason other than a material breach by MDS Nordion. These exit payments include facility decommissioning and waste disposal charges, inventory write down charges, and other operational costs of discontinuing Azedra manufacture. If we are unable to meet our monthly minimum purchases of Azedra, or following drug approval if we are unable to meet our monthly reservation fees for the facility, or if we became insolvent or filed for bankruptcy, this agreement could be terminated, which would trigger the above exit payments. 42 Table of Contents Likewise, pursuant to our agreement for supply of Onalta with EZN, we are responsible for certain payments following termination of the agreement. If we terminate the agreement or following termination by a material breach of the agreement by us, we are obligated to make a substantial one-time payment for purchase of EZN’s rights in any intellectual property developed under the agreement. In addition, we are responsible for all costs associated with decommissioning of the dedicated Onalta facility, or we may transfer title to the facility and equipment to EZN, at its option. If we are unable to meet the facility construction payments, or if we became insolvent or filed for bankruptcy, this agreement could be terminated, which would trigger the above termination payments. In addition, termination of the EZN agreement would have direct consequences in our ability to supply Onalta to BioMedica, for purchase and sale of Onalta by BioMedica throughout Europe, North Africa and parts of Asia. Therefore termination of the EZN agreement could cause us to breach our Supply Agreement and Territory License Agreement with BioMedica. In addition, in the event that we are become insolvent or file for bankruptcy, this may trigger an event of default by us under other agreements we have with third parties and provide termination rights for parties to our agreements and this could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Our Industry Our competitors may develop products that are less expensive, safer or more effective, which may diminish or eliminate the commercial success of any potential products that we may commercialize. If our competitors market products that are less expensive, safer or more effective than our future products developed from our product candidates, or that reach the market before our product candidates, we may not achieve commercial success. For example, if approved, Zemiva will compete in the emergency department setting with the current standard of care in the assessment of chest pain patients who present themselves to emergency departments. This standard involves several diagnostic products and procedures, in some cases involving the use of perfusion imaging agents, which in the aggregate may require several hours or days of hospitalization to reach an ultimate diagnosis. If approved, Zemiva’s primary competition in the non-acute setting will be perfusion imaging agents such as Cardiolite produced by Bristol-Myers Squibb Medical Imaging, Myoview produced by GE Healthcare, and generic thallium, the primary U.S. supplier being Tyco Healthcare/Mallinckrodt. The market may choose to continue utilizing the existing products for any number of reasons, including familiarity with or pricing of these existing products. The failure of Zemiva or any of our product candidates to compete with products marketed by our competitors would impair our ability to generate revenue, which would have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We expect to compete with several pharmaceutical companies including Bristol-Myers Squibb Medical Imaging, GE Healthcare and Tyco Healthcare/Mallinckrodt, and our competitors may: • develop and market products that are less expensive or more effective than our future products; • commercialize competing products before we or our partners can launch any products developed from our product candidates; • operate larger research and development programs or have substantially greater financial resources than we do; • initiate or withstand substantial price competition more successfully than we can; • have greater success in recruiting skilled technical and scientific workers from the limited pool of available talent; • more effectively negotiate third-party licenses and strategic relationships; and • take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities more readily than we can. 43 Table of Contents We expect to compete for market share against large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, smaller companies that are collaborating with larger pharmaceutical companies, new companies, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations. In addition, the life sciences industry is characterized by rapid technological change. Because our research approach integrates many technologies, it may be difficult for us to stay abreast of the rapid changes in each technology. If we fail to stay at the forefront of technological change, we may be unable to compete effectively. Our competitors may render our technologies obsolete by advances in existing technological approaches or the development of new or different approaches, potentially eliminating the advantages in our product discovery process that we believe we derive from our research approach and proprietary technologies. The use of hazardous materials in our operations may subject us to environmental claims or liabilities. Our research and development activities involve the use of hazardous materials, including chemicals and biological and radioactive materials. Injury or contamination from these materials may occur and we could be held liable for any damages, which could exceed our available financial resources. This liability could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and waste products. We may be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we fail to comply with extensive regulations enforced by the FDA and other agencies with respect to pharmaceutical products, the commercialization of our product candidates could be prevented, delayed or halted. Research, preclinical development, clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing of our product candidates are subject to extensive regulation by various government authorities. We have not received marketing approval for Azedra, Onalta, Trofex, Solazed, Zemiva or our other product candidates. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals is lengthy and expensive, and the time required for such approvals is uncertain. The approval process is affected by such factors as: • the severity of the disease; • the quality of submission relating to the product candidate; • the product candidate’s clinical efficacy and safety; • the strength of the chemistry and manufacturing control of the process; • the manufacturing facility compliance; • the availability of alternative treatments; • the risks and benefits demonstrated in clinical trials; and • the patent status and marketing exclusivity rights of certain innovative products. Any regulatory approvals that we or our partners receive for our product candidates may also be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product candidate may be marketed or contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing follow-up studies. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with the product candidate, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, may result in restrictions on the marketing of the product candidate and withdrawal of the product candidate from the market. U.S. manufacturing, labeling, storage and distribution activities also are subject to strict regulating and licensing by the FDA. The manufacturing facilities for our biopharmaceutical products are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA and other regulatory authorities and from time to time, these agencies may send notice of 44 Table of Contents deficiencies as a result of such inspections. Our failure or the failure of our biopharmaceutical manufacturing facilities, to continue to meet regulatory standards or to remedy any deficiencies could result in corrective action by the FDA or these other authorities, including the interruption or prevention of marketing, closure of our biopharmaceutical manufacturing facilities, and fines or penalties. Regulatory authorities also could require post-marketing surveillance to monitor and report to the FDA potential adverse effects of our product candidates. Congress or the FDA in specific situations can modify the regulatory process. If approved, any of our product candidates’ subsequent failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could, among other things, result in warning letters, fines, suspension or revocation of regulatory approvals, product recalls or seizures, operating restrictions, injunctions and criminal prosecutions. The FDA’s policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we might not be permitted to market our product candidates and our business could suffer. In the future, we intend to distribute and sell our potential products outside of the United States, which will subject us to further regulatory risk. In addition to seeking approval from the FDA for Azedra, Onalta, Trofex, Solazed and Zemiva in the United States, we intend to seek the governmental approval required to market Azedra, Onalta, Trofex, Solazed and Zemiva and our other potential products in European Union countries such as the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Belgium, Holland and Italy through third-parties. We may in the future also seek approvals for additional countries. The regulatory review process varies from country to country, and approval by foreign government authorities is unpredictable, uncertain and generally expensive. Our ability to market our potential products could be substantially limited due to delays in receipt of, or failure to receive, the necessary approvals or clearances. We anticipate commencing the applications required in some or all of these countries following approval by the FDA; however, we may decide to file applications in advance of the FDA approval if we determine such filings to be both time and cost effective. If we export any of our potential products that have not yet been cleared for domestic commercial distribution, such products may be subject to FDA export restrictions. Marketing of our potential products in these countries, and in most other countries, is not permitted until we have obtained required approvals or exemptions in each individual country. Failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals could impair our ability to generate revenue from international sources. Market acceptance of our potential products could be limited if users are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement from third-party payers. Government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations generally provide reimbursement for products like our product candidates, and our commercial success could depend in part on these third-party payers agreeing to reimburse patients for the costs of our potential products. Even if we succeed in bringing any of our product candidates to market, there is no assurance that third-party payers will consider our potential products cost effective or provide reimbursement in whole or in part for their use. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products. Each of our product candidates is intended to replace or alter existing therapies or procedures. These third-party payers may conclude that our product candidates are less safe, effective or cost-effective than these existing therapies or procedures. Therefore, third-party payers may not approve our products candidates for reimbursement. If third-party payers do not approve our product candidates for reimbursement or fail to reimburse for them adequately, sales could suffer as some physicians or their patients could opt for a competing product that is approved for reimbursement or is adequately reimbursed. Even if third-party payers make reimbursement available, these payers’ reimbursement policies may adversely affect our ability and the ability of our potential collaborators to sell our potential products on a profitable basis. 45 Table of Contents The trend toward managed healthcare in the United States, the growth of organizations such as health maintenance organizations and legislative proposals to reform healthcare and government insurance programs could significantly influence the purchase of healthcare services and products, resulting in lower prices and reduced demand for our products which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of our product candidates may change in ways adverse to us before or after the FDA or other regulatory agencies approve any of our product candidates for marketing. While we cannot predict the likelihood of any of these legislative or regulatory proposals, if any government or regulatory agencies adopt these proposals, they could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Product liability claims may damage our reputation and, if insurance proves inadequate, the product liability claims may harm our business. We may be exposed to the risk of product liability claims that is inherent in the biopharmaceutical industry. A product liability claim may damage our reputation by raising questions about our product’s safety and efficacy and could limit our ability to sell one or more products by preventing or interfering with commercialization of our potential products. In addition, product liability insurance for the biopharmaceutical industry is generally expensive to the extent it is available at all. There can be no assurance that we could obtain and maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or that we could secure increased coverage if the commercialization of our potential products progresses, or that future claims against us could be covered by our product liability insurance. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the existing coverage of our insurance policy and/or any rights of indemnification and contribution that we may have could offset any future claims. We currently maintain product liability insurance of $10 million per occurrence and in the aggregate for clinical trial related occurrences only. We believe that this coverage is currently adequate based on current and projected business activities and the associated risk exposure, although we expect to increase this coverage as our business activities and associated risks grow. A successful claim against us with respect to uninsured liabilities or in excess of insurance coverage and not subject to any indemnification or contribution could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We could be negatively impacted by the application or enforcement of federal and state fraud and abuse laws, including anti-kickback laws and other federal and state anti-referral laws. We are not aware of any current business practice which is in violation of any federal or state fraud and abuse law. However, continued vigilance to assure compliance with all potentially applicable laws will be a necessary expense associated with product development. For example, all product marketing efforts must be strictly scrutinized to assure that they are not associated with improper remunerations to referral sources in violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and similar state statutes. Remunerations may include potential future activities for our product candidates, including discounts, rebates and bundled sales, which must be appropriately structured to take advantage of statutory and regulatory “safe harbors.” From time to time we engage physicians in consulting activities. In addition, we may decide to sponsor continuing medical education activities for physicians or other medical personnel. We also may award or sponsor study grants to physicians from time to time. All relationships with physicians, including consulting arrangements, continuing medical education and study grants, must be similarly reviewed for compliance with the Anti-Kickback Statute to assure that remuneration is not provided in return for referrals. Patient inducements may also be unlawful. Inaccurate reports of product pricing, or a failure to provide product at an appropriate price to various governmental entities, could also serve as a basis for an enforcement action under various theories. Claims which are “tainted” by virtue of kickbacks or a violation of self-referral rules may be alleged as false claims if other elements of a violation are established. The federal False Claims Act, which includes a provision allowing whistleblowers to bring actions on behalf of the federal government and receive a portion of the 46 Table of Contents recovery, applies to those who submit a false claim and those who cause a false claim to be submitted. Because our potential customers may seek payments from the federal healthcare programs for our product candidates, even during the clinical trial stages, we must assure that we take no actions which could result in the submission of false claims. For example, free product samples which are knowingly or with reckless disregard billed to the federal healthcare programs could constitute false claims. If the practice was facilitated or fostered by us, we could be liable. Moreover, inadequate accounting for or a misuse of federal grant funds used for product research and development could be alleged as a violation of the False Claims Act or other relevant statutes. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations, and additional legal or regulatory change. Risks Related to General Economic Conditions Continued instability in the credit and financial market conditions may negatively impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Financial markets in the United States, Canada, Europe and Asia continues to experience disruption, including, among other things, significant volatility in security prices, declining valuations of certain investments, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions continues to be greatly reduced and local governments and many businesses are still in serious difficulty due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. Unemployment rates remain significantly high. As a clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company, we rely on third parties for several important aspects of our business, including the manufacturing and supply of our products for clinical and compassionate use, clinical development of our product candidates, and conduct of our clinical trials. Such third parties may be unable to satisfy their commitments to us due to tightening of global credit from time to time, which would adversely affect our business. The continued instability in the credit and financial market conditions may also negatively impact our ability to access capital and credit markets and our ability to manage our cash balance. While we are unable to predict the continued duration and severity of the adverse conditions in the United States and other countries, any of the circumstances mentioned above could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow or cash position. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 