Item 1A. Risk Factors. Calpine’s recent bankruptcy filing may adversely affect us in several respects. Calpine and certain of its subsidiaries (the “Debtors”) filed for protection under the federal bankruptcy laws in the Southern District of New York on December 20, 2005 (the “Petition Date”). The Debtors may bring an action under the Bankruptcy Code or relevant state fraudulent conveyance laws asserting that Calpine’s transfer of its domestic oil and natural gas business to us (as either the initial transferee or the immediate or mediate transferee from the initial transferee) should be voided or set aside as a fraudulent transfer. To prevail in such a legal action, the Debtors would be required to prove that Calpine either: (i) transferred its domestic oil and natural gas business to us with the intent of hindering, delaying or defrauding its current or future creditors; or 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements (ii) as of July 7, 2005 (the date of the closing of the acquisition), (a) received less than reasonably equivalent value for the business, and (b) was insolvent, became insolvent as a result of such transfer, was engaged in a business or transaction or was about to engage in a business or transaction for which any property remaining was unreasonably small, or intended to incur or believed it would incur debts that would be beyond its ability to pay as such debts matured. Our primary defense against such a legal challenge rests on the extensive negotiations leading up to, and the market pricing mechanisms incorporated within the terms of the acquisition. Nonetheless, if after a trial on the merits, the court were to determine that the Debtors have met their burden of proof, it could void the transfer or take other actions against us, including (i) setting aside the acquisition and returning our purchase price and give us a first lien on all the properties and assets we purchased in the acquisition or (ii) sustaining the acquisition subject to our being required to pay the Debtors the amount, if any, by which the fair value of the business transferred, as determined by the court as of July 7, 2005, exceeded the purchase price determined and paid in July 2005. If the bankruptcy court should so rule, a setting aside of the acquisition would be materially detrimental to us in that substantially all our properties would be returned to Calpine, subject to our right (as a good faith transferee) to retain a lien in our favor to secure the return of the purchase price we paid for the properties. Additionally, if the bankruptcy court should so rule, any requirement to pay an increased purchase price could adversely affect us depending on the amount we might be required to pay. Additionally, at the closing of the acquisition, Calpine agreed to sell but retained title to certain domestic oil and gas properties, subject to obtaining various third party consents or waivers of preferential purchase rights necessary in order to effect transfer of title. In July 2005, as part of the transactions undertaken in connection with closing the acquisition, we accepted possession of and have since been operating all of the properties for which Calpine retained record legal title. We withheld approximately $75 million from the aggregate purchase price, which was the allocated dollar amount under the PSA for the properties. Subsequent to the closing of the acquisition, with the exception of the properties subject to this preferential right, we obtained substantially all of the consents to assign for all of these properties for which consents were actually required. Prior to the Calpine bankruptcy, we were prepared to consummate the assignments of these properties, excepting those subject to the preferential purchase right. The PV-10 value of these properties at December 31, 2005 was approximately $72.4 million. Based on our internal calculations, we estimate the PV-10 value as of March 31, 2006 to be approximately $51.1 million. We are prepared to pay Calpine the retained portion of the original purchase price, approximately $68 million, upon our receipt from Calpine of record title to these properties, free of any encumbrance, and for that portion of these properties which are the cured non-consent properties, subject to appropriate adjustment for the net revenues through December 15, 2005. If the assignment of these properties does not occur, the portion of the purchase price we held back pending consent will be retained by us and will be available to us for general corporate purposes. In addition, certain of the properties we purchased from Calpine and paid Calpine for on July 7, 2005, require certain additional documentation, depending on the particular facts and circumstances surrounding the particular properties involved, such documentation to be delivered by Calpine to quiet title related to Rosetta’s ownership of these properties. Certain of these properties are subject to ministerial governmental action approving us as qualified assignee and operator, even though in most cases there had been a conveyance by Calpine and release of mortgages and liens by Calpine’s creditors. For certain other properties, the documentation delivered by Calpine at closing was incomplete. While the Company remains hopeful that it will be able to work cooperatively with Calpine to secure these ministerial governmental approvals and accomplish the curative corrections for all of these properties for which the Company paid Calpine for, all of the same being covered, we believe, by the further assurances provision of the parties’ definitive agreements, the exact details for each property involved of how, when and if this will be able to be secured or accomplished continue to remain uncertain at this early stage of Calpine’s bankruptcy. Oil and natural gas prices are volatile, and a decline in oil and natural gas prices would significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. Our revenue, profitability and cash flow depend substantially upon the prices and demand for oil and natural gas. The markets for these commodities are volatile and even relatively modest drops in prices can significantly 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements affect our financial results and impede our growth. Prices for oil and natural gas fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond our control, such as: • domestic and foreign supply of oil and gas; • price and quantity of foreign imports; • actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations; • political conditions in or affecting other oil producing and natural gas producing countries, including the current conflicts in the Middle East and conditions in South America and Russia; • weather conditions and natural disasters; • technological advances affecting oil and natural gas consumption; • overall U.S. and global economic conditions; and • price and availability of alternative fuels. Further, oil prices and natural gas prices do not necessarily fluctuate in direct relationship to each other. Because the majority of our estimated proved reserves are natural gas reserves, our financial results are more sensitive to movements in natural gas prices. Lower oil and natural gas prices may not only decrease our revenues on a per unit basis but also may reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically. Thus a significant reduction in commodity prices may result in our having to make substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Development and exploration drilling activities do not ensure reserve replacement and thus our ability to produce revenue. Development and exploration drilling and strategic acquisitions are the main methods of replacing reserves. However, development and exploration drilling operations may not result in any increases in reserves for various reasons. Development and exploration drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of: • lack of acceptable prospective acreage; • inadequate capital resources; • weather conditions and natural disasters; • title problems; • compliance with governmental regulations; • mechanical difficulties; and • availability of equipment. Counterparty credit default could have an adverse effect on us. Our revenues are generated under contracts with various counterparties. Results of operations would be adversely affected as a result of non-performance by any of these counterparties of their contractual obligations under the various contracts. A counterparty’s default or non-performance could be caused by factors beyond our control. A default could occur as a result of circumstances relating directly to the counterparty, or due to 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements circumstances caused by other market participants having a direct or indirect relationship with the counterparty. Defaults by counterparties may occur from time to time, and this could negatively impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Calpine’s recent bankruptcy could result in the failure of Calpine to continue purchasing natural gas from us under our natural gas purchase and sale agreements with Calpine discussed below. We sell a significant amount of our production to one customer. In connection with the acquisition, we entered into a natural gas purchase and sale contract with Calpine that obligates us to sell all of the then-existing and future production from our California leases in production as of May 1, 2005 through December 2009 based on market prices. As of December 31, 2005, this production comprised approximately 42% of our current overall production based on an equivalent basis. Calpine’s recent bankruptcy could result in failure of Calpine to continue purchasing natural gas from us. Additionally, under separate monthly spot agreements, we may sell our natural gas production, not subject to the term contract to Calpine, which could increase our credit exposure to Calpine. Under the terms of our natural gas purchase and sale contract and spot agreements with Calpine, all natural gas volumes that are contractually sold to Calpine are collateralized by Calpine making daily margin payments to our collateral account equal to the previous day’s natural gas sales. In the event of a default by Calpine, we could be exposed to the loss of up to four days of natural gas sales revenue under the contract, which at prices and volumes in effect as of December 31, 2005 would be approximately $1.4 million. Unless we replace our oil and natural gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline. Our future oil and natural gas production depends on our success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. If we fail to replace reserves through drilling or acquisitions, our level of production and cash flows will be affected adversely. In general, production from oil and natural gas properties declines as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. Our total proved reserves decline as reserves are produced. Our ability to make the necessary capital investment to maintain or expand our asset base of oil and natural gas reserves would be impaired to the extent cash flow from operations is reduced and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable. We may not be successful in exploring for, developing or acquiring additional reserves. We will require additional capital to fund our future activities. If we fail to obtain additional capital, we may not be able to implement fully our business plan, which could lead to a decline in reserves. Future projects and acquisitions may depend on our ability to obtain financing beyond our cash flow from operations. We will finance our business plan and operations primarily with internally generated cash flow, bank borrowings, entering into exploratory arrangements with other parties and privately raised equity. In the future, we will require substantial capital to fund our business plan and operations. Sufficient capital may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. If we cannot obtain additional capital resources, we may curtail our drilling, development and other activities or be forced to sell some of our assets on unfavorable terms. The terms of our credit facilities contain a number of restrictive and financial covenants that limit our ability to pay dividends. If we are unable to comply with these covenants, our lenders could accelerate the repayment of our indebtedness. The terms of our credit facilities subject us to a number of covenants that impose restrictions on us, including our ability to incur indebtedness and liens, make loans and investments, make capital expenditures, sell assets, engage in mergers, consolidations and acquisitions, enter into transactions with affiliates, enter into sale and leaseback transactions, change our lines of business and pay dividends on our common stock. We will also be required by the terms of our credit facilities to comply with financial covenant ratios. A more detailed description of our credit facilities is included in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” and the footnotes to the consolidated/combined financial statements. 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements A breach of any of the covenants imposed on us by the terms of our indebtedness, including the financial covenants under our credit facilities, could result in a default under such indebtedness. In the event of a default, the lenders for our revolving credit facility could terminate their commitments to us, and they and the lenders of our second lien term loan could accelerate the repayment of all of our indebtedness. In such case, we may not have sufficient funds to pay the total amount of accelerated obligations, and our lenders under the credit facilities could proceed against the collateral securing the facilities. Any acceleration in the repayment of our indebtedness or related foreclosure could adversely affect our business. Properties we acquire may not produce as expected, and we may be unable to determine reserve potential, identify liabilities associated with the properties or obtain protection from sellers against such liabilities. We continually review opportunities to acquire producing properties, undeveloped acreage and drilling prospects; however, such reviews are not capable of identifying all potential conditions. Generally, it is not feasible to review in depth every individual property involved in each acquisition. Ordinarily, we will focus our review efforts on higher value properties or properties with known adverse conditions and will sample the remainder. However, even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems or permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their condition, any deficiencies, and development potential. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as ground water contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Our exploration and development activities may not be commercially successful. Exploration activities involve numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or natural gas reservoirs will be discovered. In addition, the future cost and timing of drilling, completing and producing wells is often uncertain. Furthermore, drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including: • unexpected drilling conditions; pressure or irregularities in formations; equipment failures or accidents; • adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes, which are common in the Gulf of Mexico during certain times of the year; compliance with governmental regulations; unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment or labor; • reductions in oil and natural gas prices; and • limitations in the market for oil and natural gas. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop and exploit prospects or properties depend in part on data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often uncertain. Even when used and properly interpreted, 3-D seismic data and visualization techniques only assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators. They do not allow the interpreter to know conclusively if hydrocarbons are present or producible economically. In addition, the use of 3-D seismic and other advanced technologies requires greater pre-drilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies. Because of these factors, we could incur losses as a result of exploratory drilling expenditures. Poor results from exploration activities could have a material adverse effect on our future cash flows, results of operations and financial position. Numerous uncertainties are inherent in our estimates of oil and natural gas reserves and our estimated reserve quantities and present value calculations may not be accurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will affect materially the estimated quantities and present value of our reserves. Estimates of proved oil and natural gas reserves and the future net cash flows attributable to those reserves are prepared by independent petroleum engineers and geologists. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements estimating quantities of proved oil and natural gas reserves and cash flows attributable to such reserves, including factors beyond our control and that of our engineers. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of an estimate of quantities of reserves, or of cash flows attributable to such reserves, is a function of the available data, assumptions regarding future oil and natural gas prices and expenditures for future development and exploration activities, and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Additionally, reserves and future cash flows may be subject to material downward or upward revisions, based upon production history, development and exploration activities and prices of oil and natural gas. Actual future production, revenue, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses, underlying information, quantities of recoverable reserves and the value of cash flows from such reserves may vary significantly from the assumptions and underlying information set forth herein. In addition, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserves and cash flows based on the same available data. The present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves referred to in this Report is not necessarily the actual current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on fixed prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs fluctuate over time and may differ materially from those used in the present value estimate. In addition, discounted future net cash flows are estimated assuming royalties to the Minerals Management Service (“MMS”), royalty owners and other state and federal regulatory agencies with respect to our affected properties, will be paid or suspended for the life of the properties based upon oil and natural gas prices as of the date of the estimate. Since actual future prices fluctuate over time, royalties may be required to be paid for various portions of the life of the properties and suspended for other portions of the life of the properties. The timing of both the production and expenses from the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect both the timing of actual future net cash flows from our proved reserves and their present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor that we use to calculate the net present value of future net cash flows for reporting purposes in accordance with the SEC’s rules may not necessarily be the most appropriate discount factor. The effective interest rate at various times and the risks associated with our business or the oil and natural gas industry, in general, will affect the appropriateness of the 10% discount factor in arriving at an accurate net present value of future net cash flows. We are subject to complex government regulation that could adversely affect our operations. Our activities are subject to complex and stringent environmental and other governmental laws and regulations. The exploration and production of oil and natural gas requires numerous permits, approvals and certificates from appropriate federal, state and local governmental agencies, including state and local agencies in California, whose regulations typically are more stringent than in other states or localities, as well as compliance with environmental protection legislation and other regulations. We remain subject to a varied and complex body of laws and regulations that both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce. Existing laws and regulations are routinely revised or reinterpreted, and new laws and regulations may become applicable to us that could have a negative effect on our business and results of operations. We may be unable to obtain all necessary licenses, permits, approvals and certificates for proposed projects. Intricate and changing environmental and other regulatory requirements may necessitate substantial expenditures to obtain and maintain permits. If a project is unable to function as planned due to changing requirements or local opposition, it may create expensive delays, extended periods of non-operation or significant loss of value in a project. Our business is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations as interpreted by governmental agencies and other bodies, including those in California, vested with much authority relating to the exploration for, and the development, production and transportation of, oil and natural gas, as well as environmental and safety matters. Existing laws and regulations are routinely changed, and any changes could increase costs of compliance and costs of operating drilling equipment or significantly limit drilling activity. Under certain circumstances, the MMS may require that our operations on federal leases be suspended or terminated. These circumstances include our failure to pay royalties or our failure to comply with safety and environmental regulations. The requirements imposed by these laws and regulations are frequently changed and 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements subject to new interpretations, and if such were to occur, could negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows. Our business requires technical expertise, specialized knowledge and training and a high degree of management experience. Our success is largely dependent on the skills, experience and efforts of our employees. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management or of numerous employees with critical skills could have a negative effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations and future growth. Our results are subject to commodity price fluctuations related to seasonal and market conditions and reservoir and production risks. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and could be negatively impacted in the future as a result of a number of factors, including: • seasonal variations in oil and natural gas prices; • variations in levels of production; and • the completion of exploration and production projects. The ultimate outcome of the legal proceedings relating to our activities cannot be predicted. Any adverse determination could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Operation of our properties has generated various litigation matters arising out of the normal course of business. In connection with the transfer and assumption agreement with Calpine, we generally assumed liabilities arising from our activities from and after July 7, 2005 for and defense of future litigation and claims involving Calpine’s domestic oil and natural gas reserves that we acquired in the acquisition, other than certain litigation that Calpine and its subsidiaries retained by agreement. Calpine’s recent bankruptcy may affect these retained claims. The ultimate outcome of claims and litigation relating to our activities cannot presently be determined, nor can the liability that may potentially result from a negative outcome be reasonably estimated presently for every case. The liability we may ultimately incur with respect to any one of these matters in the event of a negative outcome may be in excess of amounts currently accrued with respect to such matters and, as a result, these matters may potentially be material to our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Market conditions or transportation impediments may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. Market conditions, the unavailability of satisfactory oil and natural gas processing and transportation or the remote location of certain of our drilling operations may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. The availability of a ready market for our oil and natural gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and natural gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines or trucking and terminal facilities. In deepwater operations, the availability of a ready market depends on the proximity of and our ability to tie into existing production platforms owned or operated by others and the ability to negotiate commercially satisfactory arrangements with the owners or operators. We may be required to shut in natural gas wells or delay initial production for lack of a market or because of inadequacy or unavailability of natural gas pipeline or gathering system capacity. When that occurs, we are unable to realize revenue from those wells until the production can be tied to a gathering system. This can result in considerable delays from the initial discovery of a reservoir to the actual production of the oil and natural gas and realization of revenues. Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, and many of our competitors have resources that are greater than ours. We operate in a highly competitive environment for acquiring prospects and productive properties, marketing oil and natural gas and securing equipment and trained personnel. Many of our competitors, major and 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements large independent oil and natural gas companies, possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than our resources. Those companies may be able to develop and acquire more prospects and productive properties than our financial or personnel resources permit. Our ability to acquire additional prospects and discover reserves in the future will depend on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Also, there is substantial competition for capital available for investment in the oil and natural gas industry. Larger competitors may be better able to withstand sustained periods of unsuccessful drilling and absorb the burden of changes in laws and regulations more easily than we can, which would adversely affect our competitive position. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future in acquiring prospective reserves, developing reserves, marketing hydrocarbons, attracting and retaining quality personnel and raising additional capital. Operating hazards, natural disasters or other interruptions of our operations could result in potential liabilities, which may not be fully covered by our insurance. The oil and natural gas business involves certain operating hazards such as: • well blowouts; • cratering; • explosions; • uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids; • fires; • earthquakes and hurricanes; • pollution; and • releases of toxic gas. The occurrence of one of the above may result in injury, loss of life, suspension of operations, environmental damage and remediation and/or governmental investigations and penalties. In addition, our operations in California are especially susceptible to damage from natural disasters such as earthquakes and fires and involve increased risks of personal injury, property damage and marketing interruptions. Any of these operating hazards could cause serious injuries, fatalities or property damage, which could expose us to liabilities. The payment of any of these liabilities could reduce, or even eliminate, the funds available for exploration, development, and acquisition, or could result in a loss of our properties. Our insurance policies provide limited coverage for losses or liabilities relating to pollution, with broader coverage for sudden and accidental occurrences. Our insurance might be inadequate to cover our liabilities. For example, we are not fully insured against earthquake risk in California because of high premium costs. Insurance covering earthquakes or other risks may not be available at premium levels that justify its purchase in the future, if at all. The insurance market in general and the energy insurance market in particular have been difficult markets over the past several years. Insurance costs are expected to continue to increase over the next few years and we may decrease coverage and retain more risk to mitigate future cost increases. If we incur substantial liability and the damages are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits, or if we incur liability at a time when we are not able to obtain liability insurance, then our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Environmental liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition. The oil and natural gas business is subject to environmental hazards, such as oil spills, natural gas leaks and ruptures and discharges of petroleum products and hazardous substances, and historic disposal activities. These environmental hazards could expose us to material liabilities for property damages, personal injuries or other environmental harm, including costs of investigating and remediating contaminated properties. In addition, we also may be liable for environmental damages caused by the previous owners or operators of properties we have 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements purchased or are currently operating. A variety of stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the environmental aspects of our business and impose strict requirements for, among other things: • well drilling or workover, operation and abandonment; • waste management; • land reclamation; • financial assurance under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990; and • controlling air, water and waste emissions. Any noncompliance with these laws and regulations could subject us to material administrative, civil or criminal penalties or other liabilities. Additionally, our compliance with these laws may, from time to time, result in increased costs to our operations or decreased production, and may affect our costs of acquisitions. We are unable to predict the ultimate cost of complying with these regulations. In addition, environmental laws may, in the future, cause a decrease in our production or cause an increase in our costs of production, development or exploration. Pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Some of our California properties have been in operation for a substantial length of time, and current or future local, state and federal environmental and other laws and regulations may require substantial expenditures to remediate the properties or to otherwise comply with these laws and regulations. A variety of existing laws, rules and guidelines govern activities that can be conducted on our properties and other existing or future laws, rules and guidelines could prohibit or limit our operations and our planned activities for properties. Under our Purchase and Sale Agreement with Calpine, we are responsible for environmental claims prior to the acquisition and we have no indemnification from Calpine related to those claims. Our acquisition strategy could fail or present unanticipated problems for our business in the future, which could adversely affect our ability to make acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits of those acquisitions. Our growth strategy includes acquiring oil and natural gas businesses and properties if favorable economics and strategic objectives can be served. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities or finance and complete any particular acquisition successfully. Furthermore, acquisitions involve a number of risks and challenges, including: • diversion of management’s attention; • the need to integrate acquired operations; • potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies; • potential lack of operating experience in a geographic market of the acquired business; and • an increase in our expenses and working capital requirements. Any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to achieve anticipated levels of cash flows from the acquired businesses and properties or realize other anticipated benefits of those acquisitions. We are vulnerable to risks associated with operating in the Gulf of Mexico. Our operations and financial results could be significantly impacted by conditions in the Gulf of Mexico because we explore and produce extensively in that area. As a result of this activity, we are vulnerable to the risks associated with operating in the Gulf of Mexico, including those relating to: • adverse weather conditions and natural disasters; 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • oil field service costs and availability; • compliance with environmental and other laws and regulations; • remediation and other costs resulting from oil spills or releases of hazardous materials; and • failure of equipment or facilities. Further, production of reserves from reservoirs in the Gulf of Mexico generally decline more rapidly than from fields in many other producing regions of the world. This results in recovery of a relatively higher percentage of reserves from properties in the Gulf of Mexico during the initial years of production, and as a result, our reserve replacement needs from new prospects may be greater there than for our operations elsewhere. Also, our revenues and return on capital will depend significantly on prices prevailing during these relatively short production periods. Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains. We entered into natural gas price hedging arrangements with respect to a significant portion of our expected production through 2009. Such transactions may limit our potential gains if oil and natural gas prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the hedge. In addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which our production is less than expected, there is a widening of price differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed in the hedge arrangement, or the counterparties to our hedging agreements fail to perform under the contracts. The historical financial results of the domestic oil and natural gas business of Calpine may not be representative of our results as a separate company. The combined historical financial information included in this report does not necessarily reflect what our financial position, results of operations and cash flows would have been had we been a separate, stand-alone entity during the periods presented. The costs and expenses reflect charges from Calpine for centralized corporate services and infrastructure costs. The allocations were determined based on Calpine’s methodologies. This combined historical financial information is not necessarily indicative of what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows will be in the future. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the rules of the SEC could harm our business. Under current rules of the SEC, as of December 31, 2007, we will be required to document and test our internal control over financial reporting so that our management can certify as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our independent registered public accounting firm can render an opinion on management’s assessment. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions, if any, or the impact of the same on our operations. The assessment of our internal control over financial reporting will require us to expend significant management and employee time and resources and incur significant additional expense. We have begun the process of evaluating and documenting our internal control over financial reporting in order to test and determine any remediation actions that may be necessary and to fully implement the requirements relating to internal controls and all other aspects of related SEC rules and the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. Management has begun the process of developing a stand-alone infrastructure and has determined that certain general computer controls, specifically system security and change control procedures associated with the Excalibur accounting system of the oil and natural gas businesses we acquired from Calpine, need to be upgraded for our use. Additionally, management has identified the following material weaknesses as of December 31, 2005: (1) lack of a sufficient complement of permanent personnel to have an appropriate accounting and financial reporting structure to support the activities of the Company and (2) ineffective controls as related to the identification and documentation of accounting policies, including selection and application of generally accepted accounting principles used for accounting for select transactions and other activities. See Item 9A. Controls and Procedures, for a further discussion on these material weaknesses. 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We have begun a process of remediating the recognized areas of internal controls that need improvement and have launched corrective actions to meet the required SEC and Sarbanes-Oxley standards. Our efforts may not be successful and additional deficiencies or weaknesses in our internal controls and procedures may be identified. Our prior and continuing relationship with Calpine exposes us to risks attributable to Calpine’s businesses and credit worthiness. We acquired a business that previously was integrated within Calpine and is subject to liabilities and risk for activities of businesses of Calpine other than the acquired business. In connection with our separation from Calpine, Calpine and certain of its subsidiaries have agreed to retain certain liabilities. Third parties may seek to hold us responsible for some or all of those retained liabilities. Under our purchase and sale agreement, Calpine and certain of its subsidiaries have agreed to indemnify us for these retained liabilities. Any claims made against us that are properly attributable to Calpine and certain of its subsidiaries will require us to exercise our rights under the indemnification provisions of the purchase and sale agreement to obtain payment from Calpine and certain of its subsidiaries, as the case may be. We are exposed to the risk that, in these circumstances and in light of the Calpine bankruptcy, any or all of Calpine and certain of its subsidiaries cannot or will not make the required payment. If this were to occur, our business and results of operations, financial position or cash flow could be adversely affected. If we are unable to obtain governmental approvals arising from the acquisition, we may not acquire all of Calpine’s domestic oil and gas business. The consummation of the acquisition required various approvals, filings and recordings with governmental entities to transfer existing contracts and arrangements as well as all of Calpine’s domestic oil and gas properties to us. In addition, all government issued permits and licenses that are important to our business, including permits issued by the City of Rio Vista and Counties of Sacramento, Solano and Contra Costa, California, may require reapplication or application by us and reissuance or issuance in our name. If we are unable to obtain a reissuance or issuance of any contract, license or permit being transferred, we have entered into a transition services agreement with Calpine pursuant to which, to the extent possible, we will receive the benefits of the contract, license or permit and will discharge the duties and bear the costs and risks under such contract, license or permit. The ongoing SEC informal inquiry relating to the downward revision of the estimate of continuing proved reserves, while owned by Calpine, could have a material adverse effect on the presentation of our predecessor financial statements. In April 2005, the staff of the Division of Enforcement of the SEC commenced an informal inquiry into the facts and circumstances relating to the downward revision of the estimate of continuing proved natural gas reserves at December 31, 2004, while the domestic oil and natural gas properties were owned by Calpine. Calpine has advised us that it is fully cooperating with this informal inquiry which also involved two other non-oil and natural gas related matters, and we have separately agreed with Calpine that we will also fully cooperate. Calpine has advised us that it has not had any further response or inquiry from the SEC staff in regard to this matter since July 2005 and that the ultimate outcome of this inquiry cannot presently be determined. However, it is possible that the staff of the SEC could conclude that the estimate of continuing proved reserves as of December 31, 2004, as revised, requires further downward revision, which could have a material adverse effect on the presentation of our predecessor financial statements. Future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline, which could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional common or preferred stock. 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Stock sales and purchases by institutional investors or stockholders with significant holdings could have significant influence over our stock volatility and our corresponding ability to raise capital through debt or equity offerings. Because institutional investors have the ability to trade in large volumes of shares of our common stock, the price of our common stock could be subject to significant volatility, which could adversely affect the market price for our common stock as well as limit our ability to raise capital or issue additional equity in the future. You may experience dilution of your ownership interests because of the future issuance of additional shares of our common and preferred stock. We may in the future issue our previously authorized and unissued equity securities, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our present stockholders and purchasers of common stock offered hereby. We are currently authorized to issue an aggregate of 155,000,000 shares of capital stock consisting of 150,000,000 shares of common stock and 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock with preferences and rights as determined by our Board of Directors. As of December 31, 2005, 50,585,400 shares of common stock were issued, including 278,000 shares of restricted stock issued to certain employees and directors that vested in 2005 or early in 2006 and 307,400 shares of restricted stock that vest over a three-year period ending in 2008. Pursuant to our 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan, we have reserved 3,000,000 shares of our common stock for issuance as restricted stock, stock options and/or other equity based grants to employees and directors. Of the reserved shares, 1,233,333 may be awarded as restricted stock and 1,766,667 may be awarded as stock options and/or other equity based grants and includes 706,550 options to purchase common stock issued to certain employees and directors. The potential issuance of such additional shares of common stock may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. We may also issue additional shares of our common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for common stock in connection with the hiring of personnel, future acquisitions, future issuance of our securities for capital raising purposes, or for other business purposes. Provisions under Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. The existence of some provisions under Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could delay or prevent a change in control of the Company, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Delaware law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws prohibit our stockholders from taking action by written consent absent approval by all members of our Board of Directors. Further, our stockholders do not have the power to call a special meeting of stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 