D. Risk Factors Any investment in our stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the following factors, as well as the other information set forth in this annual report, before making an investment in our common stock. Some of the following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and our business in general. Other risks relate to the securities market for and ownership of our common stock. Any of the described risks could significantly and negatively affect our business, financial condition, operating results and common stock price. The following risk factors describe the material risks that are presently known to us. Industry Risk Factors The cyclical nature of the shipping industry may lead to volatile changes in freight rates which may reduce our revenues and net income. We are an independent shipping company that operates in the drybulk and container shipping industry. Our profitability is dependent upon the freight rates we are able to charge. The supply of and demand for shipping capacity strongly influences freight rates. The demand for shipping capacity is determined primarily by the demand for the type of commodities carried and the distance that those commodities must be moved by sea. The demand for commodities is affected by, among other things, world and regional economic and political conditions (including developments in international trade, fluctuations in industrial and agricultural production and armed conflicts), environmental concerns, weather patterns, and changes in seaborne and other transportation costs. The size of the existing fleet in a particular market, the number of new vessel deliveries, the scrapping of older vessels and the number of vessels out of active service (i.e., laid-up, drydocked, awaiting repairs or otherwise not available for hire), determines the supply of shipping capacity, which is measured by the amount of suitable tonnage available to carry cargo. The cyclical nature of the shipping industry may lead to volatile changes in freight rates which may reduce our revenues and net income. 5 In addition to the prevailing and anticipated freight rates, factors that affect the rate of newbuilding, scrapping and laying-up include newbuilding prices, secondhand vessel values in relation to scrap prices, costs of bunkers and other operating costs, costs associated with classification society surveys, normal maintenance and insurance coverage, the efficiency and age profile of the existing fleet in the market and government and industry regulation of maritime transportation practices, particularly environmental protection laws and regulations. These factors influencing the supply of and demand for shipping capacity are outside of our control, and we may not be able to correctly assess the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions. Some of these factors may have a negative impact on our revenues and net income. The value of our vessels may fluctuate, adversely affecting our earnings, liquidity and causing us to breach our secured credit agreements. The market value of our vessels can fluctuate significantly. The market value of our vessels may increase or decrease depending on the following factors: · general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry; · supply of drybulk, container and multipurpose vessels; · demand for drybulk, container and multipurpose vessels; · types and sizes of vessels; · other modes of transportation; · cost of newbuildings; · new regulatory requirements from governments or self-regulated organizations; and · prevailing level of charter rates. As vessels grow older, they generally decline in value. Due to the cyclical nature of the drybulk and container shipping industry, if for any reason we sell vessels at a time when prices have fallen, we could incur a loss and our business, results of operations, cash flow, financial condition and ability to pay dividends could be adversely affected. In addition, we periodically re-evaluate the carrying amount and period over which long-lived assets are depreciated to determine if events have occurred which would require modification to their carrying values or their useful lives. A determination that a vessel’s estimated remaining useful life or fair value has declined below its carrying amount could result in an impairment charge against our earnings and a reduction in our shareholders’ equity. Any change in the assessed market value of any of our vessels might also cause a violation of the covenants of each secured credit agreement which in turn might restrict our cash and affect our liquidity. All of our credit agreements provide for a minimum security maintenance ratio. If the assessed market value of our vessels declines below certain thresholds, we will be deemed to have violated these covenants and may incur penalties for breach of our credit agreements. For example, these penalties could require us to prepay the shortfall between the assessed market value of our vessels and the value of such vessels required to be maintained pursuant to the secured credit agreement, or to provide additional security acceptable to the lenders in an amount at least equal to the amount of any shortfall. Further, we may agree on future loans to may include various other covenants, in addition to the vessel-related ones, that may ultimately depend on the assessed values of our vessels. Such covenants could include, but are not limited to, maximum fleet leverage covenants and minimum fair net worth covenants. 6 Our future profitability will be dependent on the level of charter rates in the international drybulk and container shipping industry. Charter rates for the international drybulk and container shipping industry reached record highs during 2004 and 2005; however, by the beginning of 2006 rates declined. Drybulk rates recovered since early 2006 and reached new historic highs in the fall of 2007. Although, drybulk rates have since declined they remain high by historical standards. At the same time, containership rates, after reaching historic highs in the middle of 2005, declined by the end of the year and remained flat for most of 2006, further declined by the end of 2006 and steadily recovered during 2007. Containership rates remained at about the same level since the end of 2007 and are still below the high levels achieved in the middle of 2005. Rates in drybulk or containership markets are influenced by the balance of demand for and supply of vessels and may decline in the future. Because the factors affecting the supply and demand for vessels are outside of our control and are unpredictable, the nature, timing, direction and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable. In addition, we may not be able to successfully charter our vessels in the future or renew existing charters at rates sufficient to allow us to meet our obligations or to pay dividends to our shareholders. Some of the factors that influence demand for vessel capacity include: · supply and demand for drybulk and containership commodities, and separately for containerized cargo; · global and regional economic and political conditions; · the distance drybulk and containerized commodities are to be moved by sea; · environmental and other regulatory developments; · currency exchange rates; · changes in global production and manufacturing distribution patterns of finished goods that utilize drybulk and other containerized commodities; and · changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns. · Some of the factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include: · the number of newbuilding deliveries; · the scrapping rate of older vessels; · the price of steel and other materials; · port congestion; · changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful life of vessels; and · the number of vessels that are out of service. We anticipate that the future demand for our drybulk, container and multipurpose vessels and the charter rates of the corresponding markets will be dependent upon continued economic growth in China, India and the overall world economy, seasonal and regional changes in demand, and changes to the capacity of the world fleet. The capacity of the world fleet seems likely to increase and economic growth may not continue. Adverse economic, political, social or other developments could also have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If the number of new ships delivered exceeds the number of vessels being scrapped and lost, vessel capacity will increase. For instance, given that as of April 1, 2008 the capacity of the fully cellular worldwide container vessel fleet was approximately 11.1 million teu, with approximately 6.4 million teu of additional capacity on order, the growing supply of container vessels may exceed future demand, particularly in the short term. If the supply of vessel capacity increases but the demand for vessel capacity does not increase correspondingly, charter rates and vessel values could materially decline. 7 An economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region could materially reduce the amount and/or profitability of our business. A significant number of the port calls made by our vessels involve the loading or discharging of raw materials and semi-finished products in ports in the Asia Pacific region. As a result, a negative change in economic conditions in any Asia Pacific country, particularly in China, may have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, as well as our future prospects. In particular, in recent years, China has been one of the world’s fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product. Such growth may not be sustained and the Chinese economy may experience contraction in the future. Moreover, any slowdown in the economies of the United States of America, the European Union or certain Asian countries may adversely effect economic growth in China and elsewhere. Our business, financial position and results of operations, as well as our future prospects, will likely be materially and adversely affected by an economic downturn in any of these countries. Changes in the economic and political environment in China and policies adopted by the government to regulate its economy may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in such respects as structure, government involvement, level of development, growth rate, capital reinvestment, allocation of resources, rate of inflation and balance of payments position. Prior to 1978, the Chinese economy was a planned economy. Since 1978, increasing emphasis has been placed on the utilization of market forces in the development of the Chinese economy. Annual and five year State Plans are adopted by the Chinese government in connection with the development of the economy. Although state-owned enterprises still account for a substantial portion of the Chinese industrial output, in general, the Chinese government is reducing the level of direct control that it exercises over the economy through State Plans and other measures. There is an increasing level of freedom and autonomy in areas such as allocation of resources, production, pricing and management and a gradual shift in emphasis to a “market economy” and enterprise reform. Limited price reforms were undertaken, with the result that prices for certain commodities are principally determined by market forces. Many of the reforms are unprecedented or experimental and may be subject to revision, change or abolition based upon the outcome of such experiments. The Chinese government may not continue to pursue a policy of economic reform. The level of imports to and exports from China could be adversely affected by the nature of the economic reforms pursued by the Chinese government, as well as by changes in political, economic and social conditions or other relevant policies of the Chinese government, such as changes in laws, regulations or export and import restrictions, all of which could, adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may become dependent on spot charters in the volatile shipping markets, which may result in decreased revenues and/or profitability. Although most of our vessels are currently under time charters, in the future, we may have more of these vessels and/or any newly acquired vessels on spot charters. The spot market is highly competitive and rates within this market are subject to volatile fluctuations, while time charters provide income at pre-determined rates over more extended periods of time. If we decide to spot charter our vessels, we may not be able to keep all our vessels fully employed in these short-term markets or that future spot rates will be sufficient to enable our vessels to be operated profitably. A significant decrease in charter rates could affect the value of our fleet and could adversely affect our profitability and cash flows with the result that our ability to pay debt service to our lenders and dividends to our shareholders could be impaired. 8 An over-supply of drybulk carrier and containership capacity may lead to reductions in charter hire rates and profitability. The market supply of drybulk carriers and especially containerships has been increasing, and the number of both the drybulk vessels and containerships on order have recently reached historic highs. The containership newbuildings are expected to continue being delivered in significant numbers over the next several years. The drybulk vessel newbuildings are expected to continue being delivered in 2008 at the same rates as in 2006 and 2007, but it is anticipated that in 2009, and particularly in 2010, that their delivery rate will start increasing. An over-supply of drybulk carrier and containership capacity may result in a reduction of charter hire rates. If such a reduction occurs upon the expiration or termination of our drybulk carriers’ and containerships’ current charters, such as during 2008 or 2009, when the charters under which at least nine of our containerships are currently deployed expire, we may only be able to recharter those drybulk carriers and containerships at reduced or unprofitable rates or we may not be able to charter these vessels at all. We are subject to regulation and liability under environmental laws that could require significant expenditures and affect our cash flows and net income. Our business and the operation of our vessels are materially affected by government regulation in the form of international conventions, national, state and local laws and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which the vessels operate, as well as in the country or countries of their registration. Because such conventions, laws, and regulations are often revised, we may not be able to predict the ultimate cost of complying with such conventions, laws and regulations or the impact thereof on the resale prices or useful lives of our vessels. Additional conventions, laws and regulations may be adopted which could limit our ability to do business or increase the cost of our doing business and which may materially adversely affect our operations. We are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses, certificates and financial assurances with respect to our operations. The operation of our vessels is affected by the requirements set forth in the International Maritime Organization’s (“IMO’s”) International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention (“ISM Code”). The ISM Code requires shipowners and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive “Safety Management System” that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. The failure of a shipowner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code may subject such party to increased liability, may decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels, and/or may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. Currently, each of our vessels and Eurobulk Ltd., or Eurobulk, our affiliated ship management company, are ISM Code-certified, but we may not be able to maintain such certification indefinitely. Although the United States of America is not a party, many countries have ratified and follow the liability scheme adopted by the IMO and set out in the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage, 1969, as amended (the “CLC”), and the Convention for the Establishment of an International Fund for Oil Pollution of 1971, as amended and the Regulations for the Prevention of Air Pollution from Ships to the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (as modified in 1978 and 1997), including Annex VI thereto. Under these conventions, a vessel’s registered owner is strictly liable for pollution damage, including air pollution, caused on the territorial waters of a contracting state by discharge of persistent oil, subject to certain complete defenses. Many of the countries that have ratified the CLC have increased the liability limits through a 1992 Protocol to the CLC. The right to limit liability is also forfeited under the CLC where the spill is caused by the owner’s actual fault or privity and, under the 1992 Protocol, where the spill is caused by the owner’s intentional or reckless conduct. Vessels trading to contracting states must provide evidence of insurance covering the limited liability of the owner. In jurisdictions where the CLC has not been adopted, various legislative schemes or common law govern, and liability is imposed either on the basis of fault or in a manner similar to the CLC. The United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (“OPA”) established an extensive regulatory and liability regime for the protection and clean-up of the environment from oil spills. OPA affects all owners and operators whose vessels trade in the United States of America or any of its territories and possessions or whose vessels operate in waters of the United States of America, which includes the territorial sea of the United States of America and its 200 nautical mile exclusive economic zone. OPA allows for potentially unlimited liability without regard to fault of vessel owners, operators and bareboat charterers for all containment and clean-up costs and other damages arising from discharges or threatened discharges of oil from their vessels, including bunkers (fuel), in the U.S. waters. OPA also expressly permits individual states to impose their own liability regimes with regard to hazardous materials and oil pollution materials occurring within their boundaries. 9 While we do not carry oil as cargo, we do carry fuel oil (bunkers) in our drybulk carriers. We currently maintain, for each of our vessels, pollution liability coverage insurance of $1 billion per incident. If the damages from a catastrophic spill exceeded our insurance coverage, that would have a material adverse affect on our financial condition. Capital expenditures and other costs necessary to operate and maintain our vessels may increase due to changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards. Changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards, as well as compliance with standards imposed by maritime self-regulatory organizations and customer requirements or competition, may require us to make additional expenditures. In order to satisfy these requirements, we may, from time to time, be required to take our vessels out of service for extended periods of time, with corresponding losses of revenues. In the future, market conditions may not justify these expenditures or enable us to operate some or all of our vessels profitably during the remainder of their economic lives. Increased inspection procedures and tighter import and export controls could increase costs and disrupt our business. International shipping is subject to various security and customs inspection and related procedures in countries of origin and destination. Inspection procedures may result in the seizure of contents of our vessels, delays in the loading, offloading or delivery and the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against us. It is possible that changes to inspection procedures could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us. Furthermore, changes to inspection procedures could also impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of cargo uneconomical or impractical. Any such changes or developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Rising fuel prices may adversely affect our profits. Fuel (bunkers) is a significant, if not the largest, operating expense for many of our shipping operations when our vessels are under voyage charter. When a vessel is operating under a time charter, these costs are paid by the charterer. However fuel costs are taken into account by the charterer in determining the amount of time charter hire and therefore fuel costs also indirectly affect time charters. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. Fuel prices have been at historically high levels recently, but shipowners have not really felt the effect of these high prices because the shipping markets have also been at high levels. Any increase in the price of fuel may adversely affect our profitability especially if such increase is combined with lower drybulk and containership rates. If our vessels fail to maintain their class certification and/or fail any annual survey, intermediate survey, dry-docking or special survey, that vessel would be unable to carry cargo, thereby reducing our revenues and profitability and violating certain loan covenants of our third-party indebtedness. The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the Safety of Life at Sea Convention (“SOLAS”). Our vessels are currently classed with Lloyd’s Register of Shipping, Bureau Veritas and Nippon Kaiji Kyokai. ISM and International Ship and Port Facilities Security (“ISPS”) certification have been awarded by Bureau Veritas and the Panama Maritime Authority to our vessels and Eurobulk. A vessel must undergo annual surveys, intermediate surveys, drydockings and special surveys. In lieu of a special survey, a vessel’s machinery may be on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. Every vessel is also required to be drydocked every two to three years for inspection of the underwater parts of such vessel. 10 If any vessel does not maintain its class and/or fails any annual survey, intermediate survey, drydocking or special survey, the vessel will be unable to carry cargo between ports and will be unemployable and uninsurable which could cause us to be in violation of certain covenants in our loan agreements. Any such inability to carry cargo or be employed, or any such violation of covenants, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. That status could cause us to be in violation of certain covenants in our loan agreements. Rising crew costs may adversely affect our profits. Crew costs are a significant operating expense for many of our shipping operations. Crewing costs have reached recent highs and may continue at such rates. The cost of employing suitable crew is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including supply and demand and the wages paid by other shipping companies. Crew costs have been at high levels recently, but shipowners have not really felt the effect of these high prices because the shipping markets have also been at high levels. Any increase in crew costs may adversely affect our profitability especially if such increase is combined with lower drybulk and containership rates.. Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lienholder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arresting or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay large sums of funds to have the arrest lifted which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert “sister ship” liability against one of our vessels for claims relating to another of our vessels. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in loss of earnings. A government could requisition for title or seize our vessels. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes the owner. Also, a government could requisition our vessels for hire. Requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes the charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during a period of war or emergency. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. World events outside our control may negatively affect our ability to operate, thereby reducing our revenues and net income or our ability to obtain additional financing, thereby restricting the implementation of our business strategy. Terrorist attacks such as the attacks on the United States of America on September 11, 2001, on London, England on July 7, 2005, and the response to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks, continue to cause uncertainty in the world financial markets and may affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The continuing conflict in Iraq may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. Terrorist attacks may also negatively affect our operations and financial condition and directly impact its vessels or its customers. Future terrorist attacks could result in increased volatility of the financial markets in the United States of America and globally and could result in an economic recession in the United States of America or the world. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and costs. 11 Company Risk Factors If we do not use our cash on hand to acquire vessels and expand our fleet, we may use it for general corporate purposes which may result in lower earnings. We intend to use our cash on hand to acquire additional vessels and expand our fleet when we believe market conditions are favorable for purchasing such vessels. Our management will have the discretion to identify and acquire vessels. If our management is unable to identify and acquire vessels on terms acceptable to us, we may use our cash on hand for general corporate purposes. It may take a substantial period of time before we can locate and purchase suitable vessels. During this period, our cash on hand may be invested on a short-term basis and therefore may not yield returns at rates comparable to what a vessel might have earned. We depend entirely on Eurobulk to manage and charter our fleet, which may adversely affect our operations if Eurobulk fails to perform its obligations. We have no employees and we currently contract the commercial and technical management of our fleet, including crewing, maintenance and repair, to Eurobulk, our affiliated ship management company. We may lose Eurobulk’s services or Eurobulk may fail to perform its obligations to us which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of our operations. Although we may have rights against Eurobulk if it defaults on its obligations to us, you will have no recourse against Eurobulk. Further, we expect that we will need to seek approval from our lenders to change Eurobulk as our ship manager. Because Eurobulk is a privately held company, there is little or no publicly available information about it and there may be very little advance warning of operational or financial problems experienced by Eurobulk that may adversely affect us. The ability of Eurobulk to continue providing services for our benefit will depend in part on its own financial strength. Circumstances beyond our control could impair Eurobulk’s financial strength, and because Eurobulk is privately held it is unlikely that information about its financial strength would become public unless Eurobulk began to default on its obligations. As a result, there may be little advance warning of problems affecting Eurobulk, even though these problems could have a material adverse effect on us. As of April 30, 2008, Friends Investment Company Inc. owns approximately 31.0% of our outstanding shares of common stock, which may limit your ability to influence our actions. As of April 30, 2008 Friends Investment Company Inc., or Friends, our largest shareholder, owns approximately 31.0% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result of this share ownership and for so long as Friends owns a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock, Friends will be able to influence the outcome of any shareholder vote, including the election of directors, the adoption or amendment of provisions in our articles of incorporation or bylaws and possible mergers, corporate control contests and other significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us. This concentration of ownership could also discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, which could in turn have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Our corporate governance practices are in compliance with, and are not prohibited by, the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and as such we are entitled to exemption from certain NASDAQ corporate governance standards. As a result, you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NASDAQ corporate governance requirements. Our Company’s corporate governance practices are in compliance with, and are not prohibited by, the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands. Therefore, we are exempt from many of NASDAQ’s corporate governance practices other than the requirements regarding the disclosure of a going concern audit opinion, submission of a listing agreement, notification of material non-compliance with NASDAQ corporate governance practices, and the establishment and composition of an audit committee and a formal written audit committee charter. For a list of the practices followed by us in lieu of NASDAQ’s corporate governance rules, we refer you to the section of this annual report entitled “Board Practices—Corporate Governance” Under Item 6. 12 We and our principal officers have affiliations with Eurobulk that could create conflicts of interest detrimental to us. Our principal officers are also principals, officers and employees of Eurobulk, which is our ship management company. These responsibilities and relationships could create conflicts of interest between us and Eurobulk. Conflicts may also arise in connection with the chartering, purchase, sale and operations of the vessels in our fleet versus other vessels that are or may be managed in the future by Eurobulk. Circumstances in any of these instances may make one decision advantageous to us but detrimental to Eurobulk and vice versa. Eurobulk is expected to manage at least one vessel other than those owned by Euroseas. In the past, Eurobulk has managed other vessels where the Pittas family was a minority shareholder but never any where there was no Pittas family participation at all. However, it is possible that in the future Eurobulk may manage additional vessels which will not belong to Euroseas and in which the Pittas family may have controlling, little or even no power or participation and where such conflicts may arise. Eurobulk may not be able to resolve all conflicts of interest in a manner beneficial to us. Companies affiliated with Eurobulk or our officers and directors may acquire vessels that compete with our fleet. Companies affiliated with Eurobulk or our officers and directors own drybulk carriers and may acquire additional drybulk carriers, containerships or multipurpose vessels in the future. These vessels could be in competition with our fleet and other companies affiliated with Eurobulk might be faced with conflicts of interest with respect to their own interests and their obligations to us. Eurobulk, Friends and Aristides J. Pittas, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, have granted us a right of first refusal to acquire any drybulk vessel or containership which any of them may consider for acquisition in the future. In addition, Mr. Pittas will use his best efforts to cause any entity with respect to which he directly or indirectly controls to grant us this right of first refusal. Were we, however, to decline any such opportunity offered to us or we do not have the resources or desire to accept any such opportunity, Eurobulk, Friends and Aristides J. Pittas, and any of their respective Affiliates, could acquire such vessels. Our officers do not devote all of their time to our business. Our officers are involved in other business activities that may result in their spending less time than is appropriate or necessary in order to manage our business successfully. Our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Administrative Officer, Internal Auditor and Secretary are not employed directly by us, but rather their services are provided pursuant to our master management agreement with Eurobulk. These officers may spend a material portion of their time providing services to Eurobulk and its affiliates on matters unrelated to us. We are a holding company, and we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial obligations or to make dividend payments. We are a holding company and our subsidiaries, which are all wholly-owned by us, conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our wholly-owned subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to make dividend payments to you depends on our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, we may be unable or our Board of Directors may exercise its discretion not to pay dividends. We may not be able to pay dividends. We currently intend to pay minimum quarterly dividends of $0.30 per share for all of 2008 to holders of our common stock, when, as and if declared by our Board of Directors. However, we may not earn sufficient revenues or we may incur expenses or liabilities that would reduce or eliminate the cash available for distribution as dividends. Our loan agreements may also limit the amount of dividends we can pay under some circumstances based on certain covenants included in the loan agreements. 13 If in addition, the declaration and payment of dividends will be subject at all times to the discretion of our Board of Directors. The timing and amount of dividends will depend on our earnings, financial condition, cash requirements and availability, restrictions in our loan agreements, growth strategy, charter rates in the drybulk and container shipping industry, the provisions of Marshall Islands law affecting the payment of dividends and other factors. Marshall Islands law generally prohibits the payment of dividends other than from surplus (retained earnings and the excess of consideration received for the sale of shares above the par value of the shares), but if there is no surplus, dividends may be declared out of the net profits (basically, the excess of our revenue over our expenses) for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared or the preceding fiscal year. Marshall Islands law also prohibits the payment of dividends while a company is insolvent or if it would be rendered insolvent upon the payment of a dividend. As a result, we may not be able to pay dividends. If we are unable to fund our capital expenditures, we may not be able to continue to operate some of our vessels, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to pay dividends. In order to fund our capital expenditures, we may be required to incur borrowings or raise capital through the sale of debt or equity securities. Our ability to access the capital markets through future offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such offering as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain the funds for necessary future capital expenditures would limit our ability to continue to operate some of our vessels and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. Even if we are successful in obtaining such funds through financings, the terms of such financings could further limit our ability to pay dividends. If we fail to manage our planned growth properly, we may not be able to successfully expand our market share. We intend to continue to grow our fleet. Our growth will depend on: · locating and acquiring suitable vessels; · identifying and consummating acquisitions or joint ventures; · integrating any acquired business successfully with our existing operations; · enhancing our customer base; · managing our expansion; and · obtaining required financing on acceptable terms. During periods in which charter rates are high, vessel values generally are high as well, and it may be difficult to consummate vessel acquisitions at favorable prices. In addition, growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks, such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations and difficulty experienced in (1) obtaining additional qualified personnel, (2) managing relationships with customers and suppliers, and (3) integrating newly acquired operations into existing infrastructures. We may not be successful in executing our growth plans or that we will not incur significant expenses and losses in connection with the execution of those growth plans. A decline in the market value of our vessels could lead to a default under our loan agreements and the loss of our vessels. We have incurred secured debt under loan agreements for our vessels and currently expect to incur additional secured debt in connection with our acquisition of other vessels. If the market value of our fleet declines, we may not be in compliance with certain provisions of our existing loan agreements and we may not be able to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing. If we are unable to pledge additional collateral, our lenders could accelerate our debt and foreclose on our fleet. 14 Our existing loan agreements contain restrictive covenants that may limit our liquidity and corporate activities. Our existing loan agreements impose operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions may limit our ability to: · incur additional indebtedness; · create liens on our assets; · sell capital stock of our subsidiaries; · make investments; · engage in mergers or acquisitions; · pay dividends; · make capital expenditures; · change the management of our vessels or terminate or materially amend the management agreement relating to each vessel; and · sell our vessels. Therefore, we may need to seek permission from our lenders in order to engage in some corporate actions. The lenders’ interests may be different from our interests, and we may not be able to obtain the lenders’ permission when needed. This may prevent us from taking actions that are in our best interest. Servicing future debt would limit funds available for other purposes. To finance our fleet, we have incurred secured debt under loan agreements for our vessels. We also currently expect to incur additional secured debt to finance the acquisition of additional vessels. We must dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to pay the principal and interest on our debt. These payments limit funds otherwise available for working capital expenditures and other purposes. As of December 31, 2007, we had total bank debt of approximately $81.6 million. As of March 31, 2008, we had repaid $5.9 million of our total bank debt, leaving us with total bank debt of $75.7 million. Our debt repayment schedule as of December 31, 2007 requires us to repay $38.0 million over the next two years. If we were unable to service our debt, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A rise in interest rates could cause an increase in our costs and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. To finance vessel purchases, we have borrowed, and may continue to borrow, under loan agreements that provide for periodic interest rate adjustments based on indices that fluctuate with changes in market interest rates. If interest rates increase significantly, it would increase our costs of financing our acquisition of vessels, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any increase in debt service would also reduce the funds available to us to purchase other vessels. Our ability to obtain additional debt financing may be dependent on the performance of our then existing charters and the creditworthiness of our charterers. The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, and any defaults by them, may materially affect our ability to obtain the additional debt financing that we will require to purchase additional vessels or may significantly increase our costs of obtaining such financing. Our inability to obtain additional financing at all or at a higher than anticipated cost may materially affect our results of operation and our ability to implement our business strategy. 15 As we expand our business, we may need to upgrade our operations and financial systems, and add more staff and crew. If we cannot upgrade these systems or recruit suitable employees, our performance may be adversely affected. Our current operating and financial systems may not be adequate if we expand the size of our fleet, and our attempts to improve those systems may be ineffective. In addition, if we expand our fleet, we will have to rely on Eurobulk to recruit suitable additional seafarers and shoreside administrative and management personnel. Eurobulk may not be able to continue to hire suitable employees as we expand our fleet. If Eurobulk’s unaffiliated crewing agent encounters business or financial difficulties, we may not be able to adequately staff our vessels. If we are unable to operate our financial and operations systems effectively or to recruit suitable employees, our performance may be materially adversely affected. Because we obtain some of our insurance through protection and indemnity associations, we may also be subject to calls in amounts based not only on our own claim records, but also the claim records of other members of the protection and indemnity associations. We may be subject to calls in amounts based not only on our claim records but also the claim records of other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive insurance coverage for tort liability, including pollution-related liability. Our payment of these calls could result in significant expense to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Labor interruptions could disrupt our business. Our vessels are manned by masters, officers and crews that are employed by third parties. If not resolved in a timely and cost-effective manner, industrial action or other labor unrest could prevent or hinder our operations from being carried out normally and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. In the highly competitive international drybulk and container shipping industry, we may not be able to compete for charters with new entrants or established companies with greater resources. We employ our vessels in highly competitive markets that are capital intensive and highly fragmented. Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners, some of whom have substantially greater resources than us. Competition for the transportation of drybulk and container cargoes can be intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the vessel and its managers to the charterers. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, competitors with greater resources could operate larger fleets through consolidations or acquisitions that may be able to offer better prices and fleets. We will not be able to take advantage of favorable opportunities in the current spot market with respect to vessels employed on time charters. As of April 30, 2008, 12 of the 15 vessels in our fleet are employed under time charters with remaining terms ranging between four month and 47 months. The percentage of our fleet that is under time charter contracts or short term spot contracts, or that is otherwise protected from market fluctuations represents approximately 85% of our vessel capacity in 2008. Although time charters provide relatively steady streams of revenue, vessels committed to time charters may not be available for spot charters during periods of increasing charter hire rates, when spot charters might be more profitable. If we cannot re-charter these vessels on time charters or trade them in the spot market profitably, our results of operations and operating cash flow may suffer. We may not be able to secure charter hire rates in the future that will enable us to operate our vessels profitably. 16 We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel and other employees in the shipping industry, which may negatively affect the effectiveness of our management and our results of operations. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our management team. Our success will depend upon our ability to hire additional employees and to retain key members of our management team. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Difficulty in hiring and retaining personnel could adversely affect our results of operations. We do not currently intend to maintain “key man” life insurance on any of our officers. Risks involved with operating ocean-going vessels could affect our business and reputation, which may reduce our revenues. The operation of an ocean-going vessel carries inherent risks. These risks include, among others, the possibility of: · marine disaster; · piracy; · environmental accidents; · grounding, fire, explosions and collisions; · cargo and property losses or damage; · business interruptions caused by mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, political action in various countries, labor strikes or adverse weather conditions; and · work stoppages or other labor problems with crew members serving on our vessels. Such occurrences could result in death or injury to persons, loss of property or environmental damage, delays in the delivery of cargo, loss of revenues from or termination of charter contracts, governmental fines, penalties or restrictions on conducting business, higher insurance rates, and damage to our reputation and customer relationships generally. Any of these circumstances or events could increase our costs or lower our revenues, which could result in reduction in the market price of our shares of common stock. The involvement of our vessels in an environmental disaster may harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. The operation of drybulk carriers has certain unique operational risks. The operation of certain ship types, such as drybulk carriers, has certain unique risks. With a drybulk carrier, the cargo itself and its interaction with the ship can be a risk factor. By their nature, drybulk cargoes are often heavy, dense, easily shifted, and react badly to water exposure. In addition, drybulk carriers are often subjected to battering treatment during unloading operations with grabs, jackhammers (to pry encrusted cargoes out of the hold), and small bulldozers. This treatment may cause damage to the vessel. Vessels damaged due to treatment during unloading procedures may be more susceptible to breach to the sea. Hull breaches in drybulk carriers may lead to the flooding of the vessels holds. If a drybulk carrier suffers flooding in its forward holds, the bulk cargo may become so dense and waterlogged that its pressure may buckle the vessels bulkheads leading to the loss of a vessel. If we are unable to adequately maintain our vessels we may be unable to prevent these events. Any of these circumstances or events could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. In addition, the loss of any of our vessels could harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. 17 The operation of containerships has certain unique operational risks. The operation of containerships has certain unique risks. Containerships operate at high speeds in order to move cargoes around the world quickly and minimize delivery delays. These high speeds can result in greater impact in collisions and groundings resulting in more damage to the vessel when compared to vessels operating at lower speeds. In addition, due to the placement of the containers on a containership, there is a greater risk that containers carried on deck will be lost overboard if an accident does occur. Furthermore, with the highly varied cargo that can be carried on a single containership, there can be additional difficulties with any clean-up operation following an accident. Also, we may not be able to correctly control the contents and condition of cargoes within the containers which may give rise to events such as customer complaints, accidents on-board the ships or problems with authorities due to carriage of illegal cargoes. Any of these circumstances or events could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. In addition, the loss of any of our vessels could harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. Our vessels may suffer damage and it may face unexpected drydocking costs, which could affect our cash flow and financial condition. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and may be substantial. We may have to pay drydocking costs that our insurance does not cover. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired and reconditioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings. Purchasing and operating previously owned, or secondhand, vessels may result in increased operating costs and vessels off-hire, which could adversely affect our earnings. Although we inspect the secondhand vessels prior to purchase, this inspection does not provide us with the same knowledge about their condition and cost of any required (or anticipated) repairs that it would have had if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. Generally, we do not receive the benefit of warranties on secondhand vessels. In general, the cost of maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increases with the age of the vessel. As of April 30, 2008 the average age of our fleet was approximately 18.5 years. As our fleet ages, we will incur increased costs. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient and more costly to maintain than more recently constructed vessels. Cargo insurance rates also increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations and safety or other equipment standards related to the age of a vessel may also require expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which our vessels may engage. Governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for alterations, or the addition of new equipment, to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which the vessels may engage. As our vessels age, market conditions may not justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. If we sell vessels, we are not certain that the price for which we sell them will equal their carrying amount at that time. We may not have adequate insurance to compensate us adequately for damage to, or loss of, our vessels. We procure hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, which includes environmental damage and pollution insurance and war risk insurance and freight, demurrage and defense insurance for our fleet. We do not maintain insurance against loss of hire, which covers business interruptions that result in the loss of use of a vessel. We may not be adequately insured against all risks and we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for our fleet in the future. The insurers may not pay particular claims. Our insurance policies contain deductibles for which we will be responsible and limitations and exclusions which may increase our costs. Moreover, the insurers may default on any claims they are required to pay. If our insurance is not enough to cover claims that may arise, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 18 Our international operations expose us to risks of terrorism and piracy that may interfere with the operation of our vessels. We are an international company and primarily conduct our operations outside the United States of America. Changing economic, political and governmental conditions in the countries where we are engaged in business or where our vessels are registered affect our operations. In the past, political conflicts, particularly in the Arabian Gulf, resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt shipping in the area. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea. The likelihood of future acts of terrorism may increase, and our vessels may face higher risks of being attacked. We are not fully insured against any of these risks. In addition, future hostilities or other political instability in regions where our vessels operate could have a material adverse effect on our trade patterns and adversely affect our operations and performance. Obligations associated with being a public company require significant company resources and management attention. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and the other rules and regulations of the Commission, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We work with our legal, accounting and financial advisors to identify any areas in which changes should be made to our financial and management control systems to manage our growth and our obligations as a public company. We evaluate areas such as corporate governance, corporate control, internal audit, disclosure controls and procedures and financial reporting and accounting systems. We will make changes in any of these and other areas, including our internal control over financial reporting, which we believe are necessary. However, these and other measures we may take may not be sufficient to allow us to satisfy our obligations as a public company on a timely and reliable basis. In addition, compliance with reporting and other requirements applicable to public companies will create additional costs for us and will require the time and attention of management. Our limited management resources may exacerbate the difficulties in complying with these reporting and other requirements while focusing on executing our business strategy. We may not be able to predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur, the timing of such costs or the degree of impact that our management’s attention to these matters will have on our business. Our historical financial and operating data may not be representative of our future results because we are a company with a limited operating history as a stand-alone entity and as a publicly traded company. Our historical financial and operating data may not be representative of our future results because we are a company with a limited operating history as a stand-alone entity and as a publicly traded company. Our consolidated financial statements include the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of shipowning companies managed by Eurobulk and majority owned by the Pittas family prior to their contribution to us. Although our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition reflected in the consolidated financial statements include all expenses allocable to our business, due to factors such as the additional administrative and financial obligations associated with operating as a publicly traded company, they may not be indicative of the results of operations that we would have achieved had we operated as a public entity for all periods presented or of future results that we may achieve as a publicly traded company with our current holding company structure. Exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations will result in fluctuations in our cash flows and operating results. We generate all our revenues in U.S. dollars, but our ship manager, Eurobulk, incurs approximately 35% of vessel operating expenses and we incur management fees and some general and administrative expenses in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. This difference could lead to fluctuations in our operating expenses, which would affect our financial results. Expenses incurred in foreign currencies increase when the value of the U.S. dollar falls, which would reduce our profitability. 19 U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a “passive foreign investment company,” which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of “passive income” or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation’s assets produce or are held for the production of those types of “passive income.” For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute “passive income.” U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. Based on our current method of operation, we do not believe that we have been, are or will be a PFIC with respect to any taxable year. In this regard, we treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that our income from our time chartering activities does not constitute “passive income,” and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute passive assets. There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our method of operation. Accordingly, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, or a court of law may not accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, we may constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of our operations. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our U.S. shareholders will face adverse U.S. tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless those shareholders make an election available under the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the “Code”) (which election could itself have adverse consequences for such shareholders, as discussed in Item 10 of this annual report under “Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders”), such shareholders would be liable to pay U.S. federal income tax at the then prevailing income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our shares, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the shareholder’s holding period of our shares. See “Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders” in this annual report under Item 10 for a more comprehensive discussion of the U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders if we are treated as a PFIC. Legislation has been proposed in the United States which would prevent dividends on our shares from qualifying for certain preferential rates for U.S. federal income tax purposes. “Qualified dividend income” derived by noncorporate U.S. shareholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax is currently through 2010 subject to U.S. federal income taxation at reduced rates. We expect that under current law, so long as our shares are traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market, the NASDAQ Global Select Market or the NASDAQ Global Market and we do not and have not qualified as a “passive foreign investment company” for U.S. federal income tax purposes, distributions treated as dividends for U.S. tax purposes on our shares will potentially be eligible (that is, eligible if certain conditions relating to the shareholder are satisfied) for treatment as qualified dividend income. Proposed legislation which has been introduced in the U.S. Congress would, however, if enacted, make it unlikely that such distributions on our shares would be eligible for such treatment. Dividends paid on the common stock to U.S. individuals, trusts and estates may be taxed as ordinary income. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market and dividends on our common stock are potentially eligible to be treated as “qualified dividend income” which is taxed to U.S. individuals, trusts and estates at preferential tax rates. If our common stock fails to maintain the requirements of the NASDAQ Global Select Market or another established securities market in the United States, our shares will trade over the counter and any dividends paid on the shares will be treated for U.S. tax purposes as ordinary income rather than “qualified dividend income” and lose eligibility for the preferential tax treatment. 20 We may have to pay tax on United States source income, which would reduce our earnings. Under the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States may be subject to a 4% United States federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under section 883 of the Code and the applicable Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder. We believe that we and each of our subsidiaries qualify for this statutory tax exemption and we have taken this position for United States federal income tax return reporting purposes. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to lose the benefit of this tax exemption and thereby become subject to United States federal income tax on our United States source income. Due to the factual nature of the issues involved, we may not be able to maintain our tax-exempt status or that of any of our subsidiaries. If we or our subsidiaries are not entitled to exemption under Section 883 for any taxable year, we or our subsidiaries could be subject for those years to an effective 2% United States federal income tax on the shipping income these companies derive during the year that are attributable to the transport or cargoes to or from the United States. The imposition of this taxation would have a negative effect on our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our shareholders. It may be difficult to enforce service of process and enforcement of judgments against us and our officers and directors. We are a Marshall Islands corporation, and our executive offices are located outside of the United States in Maroussi, Greece. A majority of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of our officers and directors are located outside of the United States. As a result, you may have difficulty serving legal process within the United States upon us or any of these persons. You may also have difficulty enforcing, both in and outside of the United States, judgments you may obtain in the U.S. courts against us or these persons in any action, including actions based upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal or state securities laws. There is also substantial doubt that the courts of the Marshall Islands or Greece would enter judgments in original actions brought in those courts predicated on U.S. federal or state securities laws. Risk Factors Relating To Our Common Stock The trading volume for our common stock has been low, which may cause our common stock to trade at lower prices and make it difficult to sell your common stock. Although our shares of common stock have traded on the NASDAQ Global Market since January 31, 2007 and on the NASDAQ Global Select Market since January 1, 2008, recently the trading volume has been lower. Our shares may not actively trade in the public market and any such limited liquidity may cause our common stock to trade at lower prices and make it difficult to sell your common stock The market price of our common stock has been and may in the future be subject to significant fluctuations. The market price of our common stock has been and may in the future be subject to significant fluctuations as a result of many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Among the factors that have in the past and could in the future affect our stock price are: · quarterly variations in our results of operations; · changes in sales or earnings estimates or publication of research reports by analysts; · speculation in the press or investment community about our business or the shipping industry; 21 · changes in market valuations of similar companies and stock market price and volume fluctuations generally; · strategic actions by us or our competitors such as acquisitions or restructurings; · regulatory developments; · additions or departures of key personnel; · general market conditions; and · domestic and international economic, market and currency factors unrelated to our performance. The stock markets in general, and the markets for drybulk shipping and shipping stocks in general, have experienced extreme volatility that has sometimes been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. The price of our shares may be volatile and less than you originally paid for such shares. The price of our shares may be volatile, and may fluctuate due to factors such as: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in quarterly and annual results; · mergers and strategic alliances in the shipping industry; · market conditions in the industry; · changes in government regulation; · fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and earnings and those of our publicly held competitors; · payment of dividends; · shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecasted by securities analysts; · announcements concerning us or our competitors; and · the general state of the securities markets. The international drybulk and container shipping industry has been highly unpredictable and volatile. The market for stock of companies in this industry may be equally volatile. Our shares may trade at prices lower than you originally paid for such shares. Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent (1) our merger or acquisition and/or (2) the removal of incumbent directors and officers. Our current Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws contain certain anti-takeover provisions. These provisions include blank check preferred stock, the prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of directors, a classified board of directors, advance written notice for shareholder nominations for directors, removal of directors only for cause, advance written notice of shareholder proposals for the removal of directors and limitations on action by shareholders. These provisions, either individually or in the aggregate, may discourage, delay or prevent (1) our merger or acquisition by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise, that a shareholder may consider in its best interest and (2) the removal of incumbent directors and officers. 22 Future sales of our stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, may depress the market price for our common stock. These sales could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our equity securities in the future. In 2007, we issued a total of 17,325,000 new shares as part of our three common stock offerings. Additionally, 248,463 and 166,667 shares were issued upon the exercise of our warrants in 2007, and, in the four month period ended on April 30, 2008, respectively; another 170,459 warrants remain outstanding. Friends, our largest shareholder, has registered all of its shares for re-sale under our registration statement that was declared effective on May 16, 2007 which has resulted in these shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act. We may issue additional shares of our stock in the future and our stockholders may elect to sell large numbers of shares held by them from time to time. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation authorize us to issue up to 100,000,000 shares of common stock and 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Sales of a substantial number of any of the shares of common stock mentioned above may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Because the Republic of the Marshall Islands, where we are incorporated, does not have a well-developed body of corporate law, shareholders may have fewer rights and protections than under typical United States law, such as Delaware, and shareholders may have difficulty in protecting their interest with regard to actions taken by our Board of Directors. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act (the “BCA”). The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Republic of the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the law of the Republic of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain U.S. jurisdictions. Stockholder rights may differ as well. For example, under Marshall Islands law, a copy of the notice of any meeting of the shareholders must be given not less than 15 days before the meeting, whereas in Delaware such notice must be given not less than 10 days before the meeting. Therefore, if immediate shareholder action is required, a meeting may not be able to be convened as quickly as it can be convened under Delaware law. Also, under Marshall Islands law, any action required to be taken by a meeting of shareholders may only be taken without a meeting if consent is in writing and is signed by all of the shareholders entitled to vote, whereas under Delaware law action may be taken by consent if approved by the number of shareholders that would be required to approve such action at a meeting. Therefore, under Marshall Islands law, it may be more difficult for a company to take certain actions without a meeting even if a majority of the shareholders approve of such action. While the BCA does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or judicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. 