Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related To Our Business Our Loan Portfolio Includes Loans With A Higher Risk Of Loss. We originate commercial mortgage loans, commercial loans, consumer loans, and residential mortgage loans primarily within our market area. Commercial mortgage, commercial, and consumer loans may expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, commercial real estate and commercial business loans may also involve relatively large loan balances to individual borrowers or groups of borrowers. These loans also have greater credit risk than residential real estate for the following reasons: • Commercial Mortgage Loans. Repayment is dependent upon income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. • Commercial Loans. Repayment is generally dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower’s business. • Consumer Loans. Consumer loans (such as personal lines of credit) may or may not be collateralized with assets that provide an adequate source of payment of the loan due to depreciation, damage, or loss. Any downturn in the real estate market or our national or local economy could adversely affect the value of the properties securing the loans or revenues from the borrower’s business thereby increasing the risk of non-performing loans. There is currently a downturn in the national economy due to high gasoline and food prices, and the sub-prime lending crisis. The sub-prime lending issues have not affected Western New York in the same manner as other areas of the country and are not expected to affect our loan portfolio. Higher prices for business and consumers could affect our loan portfolio, if business owners or consumers are not able to make loan payments. We have not noticed any significant increases in delinquent loans due to the current state of the national economy. If Our Allowance For Loan Losses Is Not Sufficient To Cover Actual Loan Losses, Our Earnings Could Decrease. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. We therefore may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Material additions to our allowance for loan losses also would materially decrease our net income, and the charge-off of loans may cause us to increase the allowance. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. We rely on our loan quality reviews, our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors, in determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. The high percentage of traditional real estate loans in our loan portfolio has been one of the more significant factors we have taken into account in evaluating our allowance for loan losses and provision for loan losses. If we were to further increase the amount of loans in our portfolio other than traditional real estate loans, we may decide to make increased provisions for loan losses. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We believe that the current amount of allowance for loan losses is sufficient to absorb inherent losses in our loan portfolio. 37 Table of Contents Low Demand For Real Estate Loans May Lower Our Profitability. Making loans secured by real estate, including one-to-four family and commercial real estate, is our primary business and primary source of revenue. If customer demand for real estate loans decreases, our profits may decrease because our alternative investments, primarily securities, generally earn less income than real estate loans. Customer demand for loans secured by real estate could be reduced due to weaker economic conditions, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or an increase in interest rates. For example, customer demand for loans secured by real estate had decreased in our market area as a result of interest rate increases during 2004 and 2005. In 2006, interest rates remained steady, and loan demand met our projections. In 2007, interest rates remained steady, and towards the end of the year began to fall, as a result of the sub-prime lending crisis. However, during 2006 and 2007 the weighted average interest rate on our loan portfolio was not enough to offset the higher interest expenses incurred on our deposit portfolio, which resulted in lower profitability. We Have Opened New Branches And Expect To Open Additional New Branches In The Near Future. Opening New Branches Reduces Our Short-Term Profitability Due To One-Time Fixed Expenses Coupled With Low Levels Of Income Earned By The Branches Until Their Customer Bases Are Built. We opened two new branches in Orchard Park and East Amherst, New York in 2003 and one more in Hamburg, New York in December 2005. We intend to continue to expand through de novo branching. The expense associated with building and staffing new branches will significantly increase our non-interest expense, with compensation and occupancy costs constituting the largest amount of increased costs. Losses are expected from new branches for some time as the expenses associated with it are largely fixed and is typically greater than the income earned as a branch builds up its customer base. Our management has projected that it will take approximately 36 to 48 months for the Hamburg branch to become profitable. The branch we opened in East Amherst in 2003 is not yet profitable, but is expected to be profitable by the end of the first quarter in 2008. All of our other full-service branches are individually profitable. There can be no assurance that our branch expansion strategy will result in increased earnings, or that it will result in increased earnings within a reasonable period of time. We expect that the success of our branching strategy will depend largely on the ability of our staff to market the deposit and loan products offered by us. Depending upon locating acceptable sites, we anticipate opening one or two branches in each of the next several years. We Depend On Our Executive Officers And Key Personnel To Implement Our Business Strategy And Could Be Harmed By The Loss Of Their Services. We believe that our growth and future success will depend in large part upon the skills of our management team. The competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry is intense, and the loss of our key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing key personnel or attract additional qualified personnel. Although we have an employment agreement with our President and Chief Executive Officer that contains a non-compete provision, the loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers and key personnel could impair our ability to continue to develop our business strategy. Our Ability To Grow May Be Limited If We Cannot Make Acquisitions. We intend to seek to expand our banking franchise, internally and by acquiring other financial institutions or branches and other financial service providers. However, we have no specific plans for expansion or acquisitions at this time. Our ability to grow through selective acquisitions of other financial institutions or branches will depend on successfully identifying, acquiring and integrating those institutions or branches. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate internal growth or identify attractive acquisition candidates, make acquisitions on favorable terms or successfully integrate any acquired institutions or branches. 38 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and, as a result, investors and depositors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, the trading price of our stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. Beginning with this annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007, we have to include in our annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) a report of our management regarding internal control over financial reporting. As a result, we recently have begun to document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”) and SEC rules and regulations, which require an annual management report on our internal control over financial reporting, including, among other matters, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to identify and correct any significant deficiencies in the design or operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or fail to prevent fraud, current and potential stockholders and depositors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, the trading price of our stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. Risks Related To The Banking Industry Competition In Our Primary Market Area May Reduce Our Ability To Attract And Retain Deposits And Originate Loans. We operate in a competitive market for both attracting deposits, which is our primary source of funds, and originating loans. Historically, our most direct competition for savings deposits has come from credit unions, community banks, large commercial banks and thrift institutions in our primary market area. Particularly in times of extremely low or extremely high interest rates, we have faced additional significant competition for investors’ funds from brokerage firms and other firms’ short-term money market securities and corporate and government securities. Our competition for loans comes principally from mortgage brokers, commercial banks, other thrift institutions, and insurance companies. Competition for loan originations and deposits may limit our future growth and earnings prospects. Changes In Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect Our Results Of Operations And Financial Condition. Our results of operations and financial condition are significantly affected by changes in interest rates. Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on our interest-bearing liabilities. Increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. We also are subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and securities. Our earnings may be adversely impacted by an increase in interest rates because the majority of our interest-earning assets are long-term, fixed rate mortgage-related assets that will not reprice as long-term interest rates increase, while a majority of our interest-bearing liabilities are expected to reprice as interest rates increase. Therefore, in an increasing interest rate environment, our cost of funds is expected to increase more rapidly than the yields earned on our loan portfolio and securities portfolio. An increasing rate environment is expected to cause a narrowing of our net interest rate spread and a decrease in our net interest income. In 2007, our earnings were adversely impacted by an increase in short term interest rates, resulting in an inverted yield curve. The rates on our short term deposits increased significantly during 39 Table of Contents 2006 and into 2007, while rates on our long-term loan products remained steady. As a result, our net interest spread decreased from 2.60% as of December 31, 2006 to 2.42% as of December 31, 2007. In 2006, we entered into a derivative contract as part of our risk management strategy to protect against market fluctuation in interest rates. Refer to Note 4 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Changes In The Federal Reserve’s Monetary Or Fiscal Policies Could Adversely Affect Our Results Of Operations And Financial Condition. Our earnings will be affected by domestic economic conditions and the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States government and its agencies. The Federal Reserve Board has, and is likely to continue to have, an important impact on the operating results of commercial banks through its power to implement national monetary policy, among other things, in order to curb inflation or combat a recession. The Federal Reserve Board affects the levels of bank loans, investments and deposits through its control over the issuance of United States government securities, its regulation of the discount rate applicable to member banks and its influence over reserve requirements to which member banks are subject. We cannot predict the nature or impact of future changes in monetary and fiscal policies. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 40 Table of Contents 