D. Risk Factors Any investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the following factors, as well as the other information set forth in this annual report, before making an investment in our common stock. Some of the following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and our business in general. Other risks relate to the securities market for, and ownership of, our common stock. Any of the described risks could significantly and negatively affect our business, financial condition, operating results and common stock price. The following risk factors describe the material risks that are presently known to us. Industry Risk Factors The cyclical nature of the shipping industry may lead to volatile changes in freight rates, which may reduce our revenues and negatively affect our results of operations. We are an independent shipping company that operates in the drybulk and container shipping industry. Our profitability is dependent upon the charter rates we are able to charge. The supply of, and demand for, shipping capacity strongly influence charter rates. The demand for shipping capacity is determined primarily by the demand for the type of commodities carried and the distance that those commodities must be moved by sea. The demand for commodities is affected by, among other things, world and regional economic and political conditions (including developments in international trade, fluctuations in industrial and agricultural production and armed conflicts), environmental concerns, weather patterns, and changes in seaborne and other transportation costs. The size of the existing fleet in a particular market, the number of new vessel deliveries, the scrapping of older vessels and the number of vessels out of active service (i.e., laid-up, drydocked, awaiting repairs or otherwise not available for hire), determines the supply of shipping capacity, which is measured by the amount of suitable tonnage available to carry cargo. The cyclical nature of the shipping industry may lead to volatile changes in freight rates, which may reduce our revenues and net income. In addition to the prevailing and anticipated charter rates, factors that affect the rate of newbuilding, scrapping and laying-up include newbuilding prices, secondhand vessel values in relation to scrap prices, costs of bunkers and other operating costs, costs associated with classification society surveys, normal maintenance and insurance coverage, the efficiency and age profile of the existing fleet in the market and government and industry regulation of maritime transportation practices, particularly environmental protection laws and regulations. These factors influencing the supply of and demand for shipping capacity are outside of our control, and we may not be able to correctly assess the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions. Some of these factors may have a negative impact on our revenues and net income. Our future profitability will be dependent on the level of charter rates in the international drybulk and container shipping industry. During 2012, the BDI (Baltic Drybulk Index, an index that reflects the average daily equivalent rate of renting a vessel and operating crew) ranged from a minimum of 647 to a maximum of 1162 in July 2012 before declining again, finally closing the year at 699. During 2013, the BDI started rising gradually from 699 to a peak of 2,125 in mid-October, then after declined to 1,484, and increased again to close the year at 2,247. This increase in the index was primarily due to more iron ore going to China. The year 2014 started with a decline from 2,113 to close to 730 in mid-July, followed by a rebound to above 1,450 at the beginning of November and retreated to about 780 by the end of the year. Since the beginning of 2015 the index continued its gradual retreat close to 600 at the beginning of April 2015. The volatility in dry bulk charter rates are due to various factors affecting demand for and supply of vessels, including the lack of trade financing for purchases of commodities carried by sea, which may result in a significant decline in cargo shipments, trade disruptions caused by natural disasters, and increased newbuilding deliveries, especially in the Capesize and Panamax segments. There is no certainty that the dry bulk charter market will experience any recovery over the next months and the market could decline from its current level, especially given the large number of scheduled newbuilding deliveries. 6 Containership rates, having reached historically low levels in 2009, recovered throughout 2010 and the beginning of 2011 (with an exception of a decline during December 2010) and peaked in April 2011. During the remainder of 2011, rates declined again, finishing the year about 26% below their level as of December 31, 2010. During 2012 and until mid-2013 rates remained depressed. From mid-2013 through the present the market has showed a slight and very slow increase still below the levels seen in mid-2011. Rates in drybulk or containership markets are influenced by the balance of demand for and supply of vessels and may remain depressed or decline again in the future. Because the factors affecting the supply and demand for vessels are outside of our control and are unpredictable, the nature, timing, direction and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable, and as a result so are the rates at which we can charter our vessels. In addition, we may not be able to successfully charter our vessels in the future or renew existing charters at rates sufficient to allow us to meet our obligations or to pay dividends to our shareholders. Some of the factors that influence demand for vessel capacity include: · supply of, and demand for, drybulk commodities and containerized cargo; · changes in the exploration or production of energy resources, commodities, semi-finished and finished consumer and industrial products, and the resulting changes in the international pattern of trade; · global and regional economic and political conditions, including armed conflicts and terrorist activities; · embargoes and strikes; · the location of regional and global exploration, production and manufacturing facilities; · availability of credit to finance international trade; · the location of consuming regions for energy resources, commodities, semi-finished and finished consumer and industrial products; · the distance drybulk and containerized commodities are to be moved by sea; · environmental and other regulatory developments; · currency exchange rates; · changes in global production and manufacturing distribution patterns of finished goods that utilize drybulk and other containerized commodities; · changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns; and · weather and other natural phenomena. Some of the factors that influence the supply of vessel capacity include: · the number of newbuilding deliveries; · the scrapping rate of older vessels; · the price of steel and other materials; · port and canal congestion; · changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful life of vessels; · vessel casualties; · the number of vessels that are out of service; and · changes in global commodity production. We anticipate that the future demand for our drybulk and container vessels and the charter rates of the corresponding markets will be dependent upon economic recovery in the United States, Europe and Japan, among other economies, as well as continued economic growth in China, India and the overall world economy, seasonal and regional changes in demand and changes to the capacity of the world fleet. The capacity of the world fleet may increase and economic growth may not continue. Adverse economic, political, social or other developments could also have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 7 An over-supply of drybulk carrier and containership capacity may lead to further reductions in charter hire rates and profitability and may require us to raise additional capital in order to remain compliant with our loan covenants and affect our ability to pay dividends in the future. The market supply of drybulk carriers and containerships has been increasing, and the number of both drybulk vessels and containerships on order recently reached historic highs and remains high by historical standards during 2012 despite a number of order cancellations and delivery delays and continued high in 2013, 2014 and the beginning of 2015 despite the increased scrapping rate for the last three years. Scrapping rate on the containership market remained stable for all this period. If the number of new ships delivered exceeds the number of vessels being scrapped and lost, vessel capacity will increase. An over-supply of drybulk carrier and containership capacity may result in a further reduction of charter hire rates. As reported by industry sources, the containership fleet has increased by 6.1% during 2012, by 5.6% during 2013 and by 6.3% during 2014, while by April 1, 2015 stood about 2% higher compared to the end of 2014. Specifically, as reported by industry sources, the capacity of the fully cellular worldwide container vessel fleet was approximately 18.5 million teu with approximately another 3.3 million teu, or, about 18% of the that fleet capacity on order, leading to the possibility that the growing supply of container vessels may exceed future demand. Similarly, as of April 1, 2015, as reported by industry sources, the capacity of the worldwide drybulk fleet was approximately 761.4 million dwt with 151.4 million dwt, or, about 20% of the present fleet capacity on order. If the supply of vessel capacity increases but the demand for vessel capacity does not increase correspondingly, charter rates and vessel values could materially decline. If such a rate decline occurs upon the expiration or termination of our current charters, we may only be able to re-charter those vessels at reduced rates or we may not be able to charter these vessels at all. Many of the drybulk carrier and containership charters we renewed or concluded during 2012, 2013, 2014 and the beginning of 2015 were at unprofitable rates and were entered into because they resulted in lower losses than would have resulted had we put the vessels in lay-up. Any inability to enter into more profitable charters may require us to raise additional capital in order to remain compliant with our loan covenants and may also affect our ability to pay dividends in the future. The market value of our vessels can fluctuate significantly, which may adversely affect our financial condition, cause us to breach financial covenants, result in the incurrence of a loss upon disposal of a vessel or increase the cost of acquiring additional vessels. The value of our vessels may fluctuate, adversely affecting our earnings and liquidity and causing us to breach our secured credit agreements. The fair market values of our vessels are related to prevailing charter charter rates. While the fair market value of vessels and the freight charter market have a very close relationship as the charter market moves from trough to peak, the time lag between the effect of charter rates on market values of ships can vary. A decrease in the market values of our vessels could limit the amount of funds that we can borrow or trigger certain financial covenants under our current or future credit facilities, and we may incur a loss if we sell vessels following a decline in their market value. Furthermore, a decrease in the market value of our vessels could require us to raise additional capital in order to remain compliant with our loan covenants, and could result in the loss of our vessels and adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. The ocean-going container shipping industry is both cyclical and volatile in terms of charter hire rates and profitability. Containership charter rates peaked in 2005 and generally stayed strong until the middle of 2008, when the effects of the economic crisis began to affect the global container trade. Rates fell significantly, declining to below the late 2001 ten-year lows. In 2010 containership charter rates improved but remained below long-term averages, but that improvement was not sustainable and charter rates declined again in 2011 and remained low throughout 2012, 2013 and 2014; containership charter rates for Panamax size and larger containerships recovered in late 2014 while charter rates for feeder and handysize vessels like ours remain depressed and only have started recovering in March of 2015 The factors affecting the supply and demand for containerships and bulk carriers and supply and demand for products shipped in containers or bulk carriers are outside of our control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable. 8 The market value of our vessels may increase or decrease depending on the following factors: · general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry in general; · supply of drybulk and container vessels, including newbuildings; · demand for drybulk and container vessels; · types and sizes of vessels; · scrap values; · other modes of transportation; · cost of newbuildings; · technological advances; · new regulatory requirements from governments or self-regulated organizations; · competition from other shipping companies; and · prevailing level of charter rates. As vessels grow older, they generally decline in value. Due to the cyclical nature of the drybulk and container shipping industry, if for any reason we sell vessels at a time when prices have fallen, we could incur a loss and our business, results of operations, cash flow, financial condition and ability to pay dividends could be adversely affected. In addition, we periodically re-evaluate the carrying amount and period over which vessels are depreciated to determine if events have occurred that would require modification to such assets' carrying values or their useful lives. A determination that a vessel's estimated remaining useful life or fair value has declined below its carrying amount could result in an impairment charge against our earnings and a reduction in our shareholders' equity. Any change in the assessed market value of any of our vessels might also cause a violation of the covenants of each secured credit agreement, which, in turn, might restrict our cash and affect our liquidity. All of our credit agreements provide for a minimum security maintenance ratio. If the assessed market value of our vessels declines below certain thresholds, we will be deemed to have violated these covenants and may incur penalties for breach of our credit agreements. For example, these penalties could require us to prepay the shortfall between the assessed market value of our vessels and the value of such vessels required to be maintained pursuant to the secured credit agreement, or to provide additional security acceptable to the lenders in an amount at least equal to the amount of any shortfall. Furthermore, we may enter into future loans, which may include various other covenants, in addition to the vessel-related ones, that may ultimately depend on the assessed values of our vessels. Such covenants could include, but are not limited to, maximum fleet leverage covenants and minimum fair net worth covenants. An economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region could exacerbate the effect of any slowdowns in the economies of the United States and the European Union and debt problems of some European Union countries and could adversely affect the profitability of our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant number of the port calls made by our vessels involve the loading or discharging of raw materials and semi-finished products in ports in the Asia Pacific region. As a result of the credit and financial crisis at the end of 2008 and beginning of 2009 and the resulting world economic slowdown, demand for the services of our vessels has declined. However, economic activity in the Asia Pacific region led by China quickly recovered, especially with regard to the import of bulk commodities. Any negative change in economic conditions in any Asia Pacific country, particularly in China, may have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, as well as our future prospects. In particular, in recent years, China has been one of the world's fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product which has had a significant impact on shipping demand. Such growth may not be sustained and the Chinese economy and other Asian countries may experience contraction in the future. Moreover, any continued or renewed weakness in the economies of the United States of America, the European Union or certain Asian countries may adversely affect economic growth in China, India and elsewhere. Furthermore, sovereign debt problems in certain southern European Union countries like, for example, Greece, Portugal, Italy and Spain, or delays in raising the debt ceiling in the United States, if necessary, may cause further unease and, possibly, disruption in the operations of financial institutions on which we depend on for our operations and hold deposits in or changes in regulatory environment within which we operate (especially in 9 Greece). Our business, financial position and results of operations, as well as our future prospects, will likely be materially and adversely affected by an economic downturn in any of these countries, particularly in China and Japan and, to some extent, India, and such downturns may exacerbate the effect of any slowdowns in the economies of the United States and the European Union. Eurozone's potential inability to deal with the sovereign debt issues of some of its members could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of our business, financial condition and results of operations. Despite the efforts of the European Council since 2011 to implement a structured financial support mechanism for Eurozone countries experiencing financial difficulties, questions remain about the capability of a number of member countries to refinance their sovereign debt and meet their debt obligations. In March 2011, the European Council agreed on the need for Eurozone countries to establish a permanent stability mechanism, the European Stability Mechanism, or the ESM, which will be activated by mutual agreement to provide external financial assistance to Eurozone countries. Despite these measures, concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain Eurozone countries and their ability to meet future financial obligations and the overall stability of the euro. An extended period of adverse development in the outlook for European countries could reduce the overall demand for our services. These potential developments, or market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flow. Liner companies, which comprise the largest contingent of charterers of containerships, have been placed under significant financial pressure, thereby increasing our charter counterparty risk which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The decline in global trade due to the economic slowdown has resulted in a significant decline in demand for the seaborne transportation of products in containers, including for exports from China to Europe and the United States. Consequently, the cargo volumes and, especially, freight rates achieved by liner companies, which charter containerships from ship owners like us, have declined, sharply in the second half of 2011, and continued to be weak throughout 2012, 2013 and 2014, especially for medium to smaller size containerships. Freight rates stabilized toward the end of 2012, remained at similar levels in 2013, continued to decline in 2014 and currently remain below historical averages, adversely affecting their profitability. The financial challenges faced by liner companies, some of which announced efforts to obtain third party aid and restructure their obligations, including our charterers, has reduced demand for containership charters and may increase the likelihood of our customers being unable or unwilling to pay us contracted charter rates. The combination of the current surplus of containership capacity and the expected increase in the size of the world containership fleet over the next several years may make it difficult to secure substitute employment for our containerships if our counterparties fail to perform their obligations under the currently arranged time charters, and any new charter arrangements we are able to secure may be at lower rates. The drybulk and containership industries are highly competitive, and we may be unable to compete successfully for charters with established companies or new entrants that may have greater resources and access to capital, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. The drybulk and containership industries are highly competitive, capital intensive and highly fragmented. Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners, some of whom may have greater resources and access to capital than we will have. Competition among vessel owners for the seaborne transportation of semi-finished and finished consumer and industrial products can be intense and depends on the charter rate, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the vessel and its operators to charterers. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, many of our competitors with greater resources and access to capital than we have could operate larger fleets than we may operate and thus be able to offer lower charter rates or higher quality vessels than we are able to offer. If this were to occur, we may be unable to retain or attract new charterers on attractive terms or at all, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. 10 Changes in the economic and political environment in China and policies adopted by the Chinese government to regulate China's economy may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in such respects as structure, government involvement, level of development, growth rate, capital reinvestment, allocation of resources, rate of inflation and balance of payments position. Prior to 1978, the Chinese economy was a planned economy. Since 1978, increasing emphasis has been placed on the utilization of market forces in the development of the Chinese economy. Annual and five year State Plans are adopted by the Chinese government in connection with the development of the economy. Although state-owned enterprises still account for a substantial portion of the Chinese industrial output, in general, the Chinese government is reducing the level of direct control that it exercises over the economy through State Plans and other measures. There is an increasing level of freedom and autonomy in areas such as allocation of resources, production, pricing and management and a gradual shift in emphasis to a "market economy" and enterprise reform. Limited price reforms were undertaken, with the result that prices for certain commodities are principally determined by market forces. Many of the reforms are unprecedented or experimental and may be subject to revision, change or abolition based upon the outcome of such experiments. The Chinese government may not continue to pursue a policy of economic reform. The level of imports to and exports from China could be adversely affected by the nature of the economic reforms pursued by the Chinese government, as well as by changes in political, economic and social conditions or other relevant policies of the Chinese government, such as changes in laws, regulations or export and import restrictions, all of which could adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We may become dependent on spot charters in the volatile shipping markets, which may result in decreased revenues and/or profitability. Although a majority of our vessels are currently under time charters, in the future, we may have more of these vessels (including our vessels currently under construction) on spot charters. The spot market is highly competitive and rates within this market are subject to volatile fluctuations, while time charters provide income at pre-determined rates over more extended periods of time. If we decide to spot charter our vessels, we may not be able to keep all our vessels fully employed in these short-term markets. In addition, we may not be able to predict whether future spot rates will be sufficient to enable our vessels to be operated profitably. A significant decrease in charter rates has affected and could continue affecting the value of our fleet and could adversely affect our profitability and cash flows with the result that our ability to pay debt service to our lenders and reinstate currently suspended dividends to our shareholders could be adversely affected. The current state of global financial markets and current economic conditions may adversely impact our ability to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms which may hinder or prevent us from expanding our business. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, volatile. The current state of global financial markets and current economic conditions might adversely impact our ability to issue additional equity at prices which will not be dilutive to our existing shareholders or preclude us from issuing equity at all. Also, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets has increased as many lenders have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at all or on terms similar to current debt and reduced, and in some cases ceased, to provide funding to borrowers. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that additional financing will be available if needed and to the extent required, on acceptable terms or at all. If additional financing is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due or we may be unable to enhance our existing business, complete additional vessel acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities as they arise. 11 We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations in the form of international conventions and treaties, national, state and local laws and national and international regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which our vessels operate or are registered, which can significantly affect the ownership and operation of our vessels. These requirements include, but are not limited to, the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, or MARPOL, the International Convention on Load Lines of 1966, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 1969, generally referred to as CLC, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Bunker Oil Pollution Damage, or Bunker Convention, the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974, or SOLAS, the International Safety Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and for Pollution Prevention, or ISM Code, the International Convention for the Control and Management of Ships' Ballast Water and Sediments, or the BWM Convention, the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA, the U.S. Clean Water Act, the U.S. Clean Air Act, the U.S. Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, the U.S. Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002, or the MTSA, and European Union regulations. Compliance with such laws, regulations and standards, where applicable, may require installation of costly equipment or operational changes and may affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels. Furthermore, the explosion of the Deepwater Horizon and the subsequent release of oil into the Gulf of Mexico, or other events, may result in further regulation of the shipping industry, and modifications to statutory liability schemes. Thus we may also incur additional costs in order to comply with other existing and future regulatory obligations, including, but not limited to, costs relating to air emissions including greenhouse gases, the management of ballast waters, maintenance and inspection, development and implementation of emergency procedures and insurance coverage or other financial assurance of our ability to address pollution incidents. These costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations. Environmental laws often impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject us to liability without regard to whether we were negligent or at fault. Because such conventions, laws and regulations are often revised, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of complying with such conventions, laws and regulations or the impact thereof on the resale price or useful life of our vessels. Additional conventions, laws and regulations may be adopted which could limit our ability to do business or increase the cost of our doing business and which may materially adversely affect our operations. We are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses and certificates with respect to our operations. Under OPA, for example, owners, operators and bareboat charterers are jointly and severally strictly liable for the discharge of oil within the 200-mile exclusive economic zone around the United States. An oil spill could result in significant liability, including fines, penalties and criminal liability and remediation costs for natural resource damages under other federal, state and local laws, as well as third-party damages. We are required to satisfy insurance and financial responsibility requirements for potential oil (including marine fuel) spills and other pollution incidents. There can be no assurance that any such insurance we have arranged to cover certain environmental risks will be sufficient to cover all such risks or that any claims will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. We currently maintain, for each of our vessels, pollution liability coverage insurance of $1.0 billion per incident. If the damages from a catastrophic spill exceeded our insurance coverage, it would severely and adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Environmental requirements can also require a reduction in cargo capacity, ship modifications or operational changes or restrictions, lead to decreased availability of insurance coverage for environmental matters or result in the denial of access to certain jurisdictional waters or ports, or detention in certain ports. Under local, national and foreign laws, as well as international treaties and conventions, we could incur material liabilities, including clean up obligations and natural resource damages in the event that there is a release of bunkers or hazardous substances from our vessels or otherwise is connection with our operations. We could also become subject to personal injury or property damage claims relating to the release of hazardous substances associated with our existing or historic operations. Violations of, or liabilities under, environmental requirements can result in substantial penalties, fines and others sanctions, including in certain instances, seizure or detention of our vessels. 12 We are subject to international safety regulations and the failure to comply with these regulations may subject us to increased liability, may adversely affect our insurance coverage and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. The operation of our vessels is affected by the requirements set forth in the United Nations' International Maritime Organization's International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention, or the ISM Code. The ISM Code requires shipowners, ship managers and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive "Safety Management System" that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. The failure of a shipowner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code may subject it to increased liability, may invalidate existing insurance or decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. Currently, each of our vessels and Eurobulk Ltd., or Eurobulk, our affiliated ship management company, are ISM Code-certified, but we may not be able to maintain such certification indefinitely. In addition, vessel classification societies also impose significant safety and other requirements on our vessels. In complying with current and future environmental requirements, vessel-owners and operators may also incur significant additional costs in meeting new maintenance and inspection requirements, in developing contingency arrangements for potential spills and in obtaining insurance coverage. Government regulation of vessels, particularly in the areas of safety and environmental requirements, can be expected to become stricter in the future and require us to incur significant capital expenditures on our vessels to keep them in compliance. The operation of our vessels is also affected by other government regulation in the form of international conventions, national, state and local laws and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which the vessels operate, as well as in the country or countries of their registration. Because such conventions, laws, and regulations are often revised, we may not be able to predict the ultimate cost of complying with such conventions, laws and regulations or the impact thereof on the resale prices or useful lives of our vessels. Additional conventions, laws and regulations may be adopted which could limit our ability to do business or increase the cost of our doing business and which may materially adversely affect our operations. We are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses, certificates and financial assurances with respect to our operations. Capital expenditures and other costs necessary to operate and maintain our vessels may increase due to changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards. Changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards, as well as compliance with standards imposed by maritime self-regulatory organizations and customer requirements or competition, may require us to make additional expenditures. In order to satisfy these requirements, we may, from time to time, be required to take our vessels out of service for extended periods of time, with corresponding losses of revenues. In the future, market conditions may not justify these expenditures or enable us to operate some or all of our vessels again profitably or with positive cash flows during the remainder of their economic lives. Increased inspection procedures and tighter import and export controls and new security regulations could increase costs and disrupt our business. International shipping is subject to various security and customs inspection and related procedures in countries of origin and destination. Inspection procedures may result in the seizure of contents of our vessels, delays in the loading, offloading or delivery and the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against us. International container shipping is subject to additional security and customs inspection and related procedures in countries of origin, destination and trans-shipment points. Since the events of September 11, 2001, U.S. authorities have increased container inspection rates. Government investment in non-intrusive container scanning technology has grown, and there is interest in electronic monitoring technology, including so-called "e-seals" and "smart" containers that would enable remote, centralized monitoring of containers during shipment to identify tampering with or opening of the containers, along with potentially measuring other characteristics such as temperature, air pressure, motion, chemicals, biological agents and radiation. 13 It is unclear what changes, if any, to the existing security procedures will ultimately be proposed or implemented, or how any such changes will affect the container shipping industry. These changes have the potential to impose additional financial and legal obligations on carriers and, in certain cases, to render the shipment of certain types of goods by container uneconomical or impractical. These additional costs could reduce the volume of goods shipped in containers, resulting in a decreased demand for container vessels. In addition, it is unclear what financial costs any new security procedures might create for container vessel owners, or whether companies responsible for the global traffic of containers at sea, referred to as container line operators, may seek to pass on certain of the costs associated with any new security procedures to vessel owners. If our vessels fail to maintain their class certification and/or fail any annual survey, intermediate survey, drydocking or special survey, those vessels would be unable to carry cargo, thereby reducing our revenues and profitability and violating certain covenants in our loan agreements. The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the Safety of Life at Sea Convention, or SOLAS. Our vessels are currently classed with Lloyd's Register of Shipping, Bureau Veritas and Nippon Kaiji Kyokai. ISM and International Ship and Port Facilities Security, or ISPS, certification have been awarded by Bureau Veritas and the Panama Maritime Authority to our vessels and Eurobulk. A vessel must undergo annual surveys, intermediate surveys, drydockings and special surveys. In lieu of a special survey, a vessel's machinery may be on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. Every vessel is also required to be drydocked every 30 to 36 months for inspection of the underwater parts of such vessel. If any vessel does not maintain its class and/or fails any annual survey, intermediate survey, drydocking or special survey, the vessel will be unable to carry cargo between ports and will be unemployable and uninsurable. Any such inability to carry cargo or be employed, or any such violation of covenants, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. That status could cause us to be in violation of certain covenants in our loan agreements. Most insurance underwriters make it a condition for insurance coverage that a vessel be certified as "in class" by a classification society that is a member of the International Association of Classification Societies, or IACS. All of our vessels that we have purchased, and may agree to purchase in the future, must be certified as being "in class" prior to their delivery under our standard purchase contracts and memorandum of agreement. If the vessel is not certified on the date of closing, we have no obligation to take delivery of the vessel. We have all of our vessels, and intend to have all vessels that we acquire in the future, classed by IACS members. Rising fuel prices may adversely affect our results of operations. Fuel (bunkers) is a significant, if not the largest, operating expense for many of our shipping operations when our vessels are under voyage charter. When a vessel is operating under a time charter, these costs are paid by the charterer. However fuel costs are taken into account by the charterer in determining the amount of time charter hire and therefore fuel costs also indirectly affect time charter rates. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. Fuel prices had been at historically high levels for most of 2008, but shipowners did not really feel the effect of these high prices because the shipping markets were also at high levels. As the shipping markets declined in the last three months of 2008 and into 2009, fuel prices fell too, thus reducing fuel costs and certain other components of operating expenses (e.g. the cost of lubricants, etc.). During 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013, fuel prices increased again approaching their 2008 levels and remained high driven by political uncertainties in several parts of the world. In the second half of 2014 and through the first quarter of 2015 fuel prices fell significantly below 2010 levels, and they 14 currently remain close to 10-year low levels. Any increases in the price of fuel may adversely affect our operations, especially if such increases are combined with lower drybulk and containership rates. Also upon redelivery of vessels at the end of a period time or trip time charter, we may be obligated to repurchase bunkers on board at prevailing market prices, which could be materially higher than fuel prices at the inception of the charter period. We may also be obligated to value our bunkers, inventories, on board at the end of a period time or trip time charter, lower than acquired, if prevailing market prices are significantly lower at the time of the vessel redelivery from the charterer. Rising crew costs may adversely affect our profits. Crew costs are a significant operating expense for many of our shipping operations. The cost of employing a suitable crew is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including supply and demand and the wages paid by other shipping companies. Crew costs were at high levels in 2008, but shipowners were not noticeably affected by these high prices because the shipping markets were also at high levels until September 2008 when the credit and financial crisis commenced. Since then, shipping rates have declined significantly and crew salaries have remained largely unchanged. An increase in the world vessel operating fleet, either because of the delivery of new tonnage or the re-activation of laid-up containerships, will likely result in higher demand for crews which, in turn, might drive crew costs up. Any increase in crew costs may adversely affect our profitability especially if such increase is combined with lower drybulk and containership rates. Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arresting or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay large sums to have the arrest lifted which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the "sister ship" theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel, which is subject to the claimant's maritime lien, and any "associated" vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert "sister ship" liability against one of our vessels for claims relating to another of our vessels. The smuggling of drugs or other contraband onto our vessels may lead to governmental claims against us. We expect that our vessels will call in ports in South America and other areas where smugglers attempt to hide drugs and other contraband on vessels, with or without the knowledge of crew members. To the extent our vessels are found with contraband, whether inside or attached to the hull of our vessel and whether with or without the knowledge of any of our crew, we may face governmental or other regulatory claims, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in loss of earnings. A government could requisition for title or seize our vessels. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes the owner. Also, a government could requisition our vessels for hire. Requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes the charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during a period of war or emergency. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 15 World events outside our control may negatively affect our ability to operate, thereby reducing our revenues and results of operations or our ability to obtain additional financing, thereby restricting the implementation of our business strategy. We operate in a sector of the economy that is likely to be adversely impacted by the effects of political conflicts, including the current political instability in Egypt, terrorist or other attacks, war or international hostilities. Terrorist attacks such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001, on Madrid, Spain on March 11, 2004, on London, England on July 7, 2005, on Mumbai, India in December 2008 and the continuing response to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks, continue to cause uncertainty in the world financial markets and may affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The continuing conflict in Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya, Yemen, Syria amongst other countries may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. Terrorist attacks on vessels may in the future also negatively affect our operations and financial condition and directly impact our vessels or our customers. Future terrorist attacks could result in increased volatility and turmoil of the financial markets in the United States of America and globally and could result in an economic recession in the United States of America or the world. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, costs and operating cash flows. Disruptions in world financial markets and the resulting governmental action could have a material adverse impact on our ability to obtain financing, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and could cause the market price of our common stock to further decline. Europe, the United States and other parts of the world have exhibited weak economic conditions, are exhibiting volatile economic trends or have been in a recession. For example, during the 2008-2009 crisis, the credit markets in the United States have experienced sudden and significant contraction, deleveraging and reduced liquidity, and the United States federal government and state governments have since implemented a broad variety of governmental action and/or new regulation of the financial markets. Securities and futures markets and the credit markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations and other requirements. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, other regulators, self-regulatory organizations and exchanges are authorized to take extraordinary actions in the event of market emergencies, and may effect changes in law or interpretations of existing laws. A number of financial institutions and especially banks that traditionally provide debt to shipping companies like ours have experienced serious financial difficulties and, in some cases, have entered bankruptcy proceedings or are in regulatory enforcement actions. As a result access to credit markets around the world has been reduced. We face risks related to changes in economic environments, changes in interest rates, and instability in the banking and securities markets around the world, among other factors. Major market disruptions and the current adverse changes in market conditions and regulatory climate in the United States and worldwide may adversely affect our business or impair our ability to borrow amounts under our credit facilities or any future financial arrangements. We cannot predict how long the current market conditions will last. However, these recent and developing economic and governmental factors, including proposals to reform the financial system, together with the concurrent decline in charter rates and vessel values, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, and might cause the price of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market to decline. We may require substantial additional financing to fund acquisitions of additional vessels and to implement our business plans. Sufficient financing may not be available on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. If we cannot raise the financing we need in a timely manner and on acceptable terms, we may not be able to acquire the vessels necessary to implement our business plans and consequently we may not be able to pay dividends. Our operating results are subject to seasonal fluctuations, which could affect our operating results and the amount of available cash with which we service our debt or could pay dividends. We operate our vessels in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, as a result, in charter hire rates. To the extent we operate vessels in the spot market, this seasonality may result in 16 quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results which could affect the amount of dividends that we may pay to our shareholders from time to time. For example, the dry bulk carrier market is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of coal and other raw materials in the northern hemisphere during the winter months. In addition, unpredictable weather patterns in these months tend to disrupt vessel scheduling and supplies of certain commodities. While this seasonality has not materially affected our operating results and cash available for distribution to our shareholders as dividends, as long as our fleet is employed on period time charters, if our vessels are employed in the spot market in the future, seasonality may materially affect our operating results in the future. We may have difficulty securing profitable employment for our vessels if their charters expire in a depressed containership market. Each of our ten containerships is currently employed on a time charter, with the time charters for all of our vessels scheduled to expire during 2015. As of April 2015, the containership charter rates for vessels like ours, although improved noticeably from their year-end levels, still remain low by historical standards and it is uncertain whether even the recent recovery will hold as rates for larger containerships have started weakening. When the current charters of our containerships are due for renewal, we may be unable to re-charter these vessels at better rates if the current market rates do not hold or we might not be able to charter them at all. Although we do not receive any revenues from our vessels while not employed, we are required to pay expenses necessary to maintain the vessel in proper operating condition, insure it and service any indebtedness secured by such vessel. If we cannot re-charter our vessels on time charters or trade them in the spot market profitably, our results of operations and operating cash flow will be adversely affected. We may be subject to litigation that, if not resolved in our favor and not sufficiently insured against, could have a material adverse effect on us. We may be involved in various litigation matters from time to time. These matters may include, among other things, contract disputes, personal injury claims, environmental claims or proceedings, asbestos and other toxic tort claims, employment matters, governmental claims for taxes or duties, and other litigation that arises in the ordinary course of our business. Although we intend to defend these matters vigorously, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any claim or other litigation matter, and the ultimate outcome of any litigation or the potential costs to resolve them may have a material adverse effect on us. Insurance may not be applicable or sufficient in all cases and/or insurers may not remain solvent which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating cash flows. Company Risk Factors Because the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board is not currently permitted to inspect our independent accounting firm, you may not benefit from such inspections. Auditors of U.S. public companies are required by law to undergo periodic Public Company Accounting Oversight Board or "PCAOB" inspections that assess their compliance with U.S. law and professional standards in connection with performance of audits of financial statements filed with the SEC. Certain European Union countries, including Greece, do not currently permit the PCAOB to conduct inspections of accounting firms established and operating in such European Union countries, even if they are part of major international firms. The PCAOB conducted inspections in Greece in 2008 and evaluated our auditor's performance of audits of SEC registrants and our auditor's quality controls. Currently, however, the PCAOB is unable to conduct inspections in Greece until a cooperation agreement between the PCAOB and the Greek Accounting & Auditing Standards Oversight Board is reached. Accordingly, unlike for most U.S. public companies, should the PCAOB again wish to conduct an inspection it is currently prevented from evaluating our auditor's performance of audits and its quality control procedures, and, unlike shareholders of most U.S. public companies, our shareholders would be deprived of the possible benefits of such inspections. 17 We depend entirely on Eurobulk to manage and charter our fleet, which may adversely affect our operations if Eurobulk fails to perform its obligations. We have no employees and we currently contract the commercial and technical management of our fleet, including crewing, maintenance and repair, to Eurobulk, our affiliated ship management company. We may lose Eurobulk's services or Eurobulk may fail to perform its obligations to us which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of our operations. Although we may have rights against Eurobulk if it defaults on its obligations to us, you will have no recourse against Eurobulk. Further, we will need to seek approval from our lenders to change Eurobulk as our ship manager. Because Eurobulk is a privately held company, there is little or no publicly available information about it and there may be very little advance warning of operational or financial problems experienced by Eurobulk that may adversely affect us. The ability of Eurobulk to continue providing services for our benefit will depend in part on its own financial strength. Circumstances beyond our control could impair Eurobulk's financial strength, and because Eurobulk is privately held it is unlikely that information about its financial strength would become public unless Eurobulk began to default on its obligations. As a result, there may be little advance warning of problems affecting Eurobulk, even though these problems could have a material adverse effect on us. Certain of our shareholders hold shares of Euroseas in amounts to give them a significant percentage of the total outstanding voting power represented by our outstanding shares. As of April 1, 2015, Friends Investment Company Inc., or Friends, our largest shareholder, owns approximately 28.0% of the outstanding shares of our common stock and unvested incentive award shares, representing 23.4% of total voting power (after accounting for our Series B Preferred Shares). As a result of this share ownership and for as long as Friends owns a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock, Friends will be able to influence the outcome of any shareholder vote, including the election of directors, the adoption or amendment of provisions in our amended and restated articles of incorporation or bylaws, as amended, and possible mergers, corporate control contests and other significant corporate transactions. In addition, as of April 1, 2015, funds advised by 12 West Capital Management LP owned approximately 19.3% of our outstanding common stock and unvested incentive award shares, and funds advised by Tennenbaum Capital Partners LLC ("TCP") and Preferred Friends Investment Company Inc., an affiliate of the Company partly owned by our Chairman and CEO, Vice Chairman and people affiliated or working with our Manager amongst others, owned shares of our Series B Convertible Perpetual Preferred Shares, to which we will refer as the Series B Preferred Shares, that are convertible into 22.8% and 5.2%, respectively, of our common shares and unvested incentive award shares on an as-converted basis. In addition, we cannot enter into certain transactions without consent from holders of our Series B Preferred Shares. This concentration of ownership and the consent rights of holders of Series B Preferred Shares may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us, and could also discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, which could in turn have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. If our Euromar joint venture partners exercise their conversion rights, they may own a significant percentage of our stock and may have representatives on our Board of Directors, thus enabling them to influence our actions. Our joint venture agreement, or the Joint Venture, to form Euromar LLC, a Marshall Islands limited liability company, or Euromar, includes the option by Eton Park Capital Management, L.P., or Eton Park, and an affiliate of Rhône Capital III L.P., or Rhône, to convert all or part of their equity interests in Euromar into common shares of Euroseas at a price to be based on the comparable values of Euromar and Euroseas at the time of exercise, with such conversion happening at not less than the net asset value of each entity provided that the net asset value of each entity is positive. Depending on the values of each entity at the time of conversion, our joint venture partners may end up owning a majority of our common shares. In addition, depending upon the share percentage of Euroseas owned by Eton Park and Rhône following any such conversion, the number of directors on Euroseas' Board of Directors may be increased for so long as the respective ownership thresholds are met. As part of the Joint Venture, 18 Euroseas' largest shareholder, Friends, has entered into a shareholder voting agreement with Eton Park and Rhône whereby Friends has agreed to vote its shares of the Company in favor of any directors nominated by Eton Park and Rhône to fill such additional board seats. Under the same shareholder voting agreement, the parties have agreed that Eton Park and Rhône may vote a certain percentage of their shares in their sole discretion (based upon their percentage interest on the Euroseas Board of Directors and the number of shares outstanding), with the remainder of their shares being voted in accordance with the vote of all other Euroseas shareholders. As a result of the foregoing, upon exercise of their conversion rights Eton Park and Rhône may be able to influence our actions. Our corporate governance practices are in compliance with, and are not prohibited by, the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and as such we are entitled to exemption from certain Nasdaq corporate governance standards. As a result, you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the Nasdaq corporate governance requirements. Our Company's corporate governance practices are in compliance with, and are not prohibited by, the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands. Therefore, we are exempt from many of Nasdaq's corporate governance practices other than the requirements regarding the disclosure of a going concern audit opinion, submission of a listing agreement, notification of material non-compliance with Nasdaq corporate governance practices, and the establishment and composition of an audit committee and a formal written audit committee charter. For a list of the practices followed by us in lieu of Nasdaq's corporate governance rules, we refer you to the section of this annual report entitled "Board Practices—Corporate Governance" under Item 6. We and our principal officers have affiliations with Eurobulk that could create conflicts of interest detrimental to us. Our principal officers are also principals, officers and employees of Eurobulk, which is our ship management company. These responsibilities and relationships could create conflicts of interest between us and Eurobulk. Conflicts may also arise in connection with the chartering, purchase, sale and operations of the vessels in our fleet versus other vessels that are or may be managed in the future by Eurobulk. Circumstances in any of these instances may make one decision advantageous to us but detrimental to Eurobulk and vice versa. Eurobulk currently manages vessels for Euromar, our joint venture entity established with companies managed by Eton Park and affiliates of Rhône, and three vessels that are not owned by either Euroseas or Euromar, potentially causing conflicts such as those described above. Further, it is possible that in the future Eurobulk may manage additional vessels which will not belong to Euroseas and in which the Pittas family may have non-controlling, little or even no power or participation, and Eurobulk may not be able to resolve all conflicts of interest in a manner beneficial to us and our shareholders. Companies affiliated with Eurobulk or our officers and directors may acquire vessels that compete with our fleet. Companies affiliated with Eurobulk or our officers and directors own drybulk carriers and may acquire additional drybulk carriers and containerships vessels in the future. These vessels could be in competition with our fleet and other companies affiliated with Eurobulk might be faced with conflicts of interest with respect to their own interests and their obligations to us. Eurobulk, Friends and Aristides J. Pittas, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, have granted us a right of first refusal to acquire any drybulk vessel or containership that any of them may consider for acquisition in the future. In addition, Mr. Pittas will use his best efforts to cause any entity with respect to which he directly or indirectly controls to grant us this right of first refusal. Were we, however, to decline any such opportunity offered to us or if we did not have the resources or desire to accept any such opportunity, Eurobulk, Friends and Mr. Pittas, and any of their respective affiliates, could acquire such vessels. As part of our Joint Venture, Euroseas and certain affiliates have granted Euromar certain rights of first refusal in respect of vessel acquisitions, and made certain arrangements with respect to vessel dispositions and chartering opportunities presented to Euroseas and its affiliates. As part of our Joint Venture, Euroseas and certain affiliates have granted Euromar certain rights of first refusal in respect of vessel acquisitions, and made certain arrangements with respect to vessel dispositions and 19 chartering opportunities presented to Euroseas and its affiliates. For example, under certain circumstances, Euroseas may be prevented from directly acquiring a vessel if Euromar elects to purchase such vessel. Euroseas may be prevented from selling a vessel if Euromar elects to sell a similar vessel and/or Euroseas may be prevented from chartering a vessel to a third party if Euromar elects to charter a similar vessel to such third party. As a result of these arrangements, we may be unable to take advantage of favorable opportunities in the market with respect to the vessels in our fleet. Our officers do not devote all of their time to our business. Our officers are involved in other business activities that may result in their spending less time than is appropriate or necessary in order to manage our business successfully. Our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Administrative Officer, Internal Auditor and Secretary are not employed directly by us, but rather their services are provided pursuant to our Master Management Agreement with Eurobulk. In addition, on March 25, 2010, we entered into the Joint Venture to form Euromar. Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are each on the board of Euromar, Euroseas and Eurobulk, and have each agreed to provide certain management services to Euromar. Therefore our officers may spend a material portion of their time providing services to Euromar. They may also spend a material portion of their time providing services to Eurobulk and its affiliates on matters unrelated to us. We are a holding company, and we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial obligations or to make dividend payments. We are a holding company and our subsidiaries, which are all wholly-owned by us, conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our wholly-owned subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to make dividend payments to you depends on our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, we may be unable or our Board of Directors may exercise its discretion not to pay dividends. We may not be able to pay dividends. Our Board of Directors decided to suspend the quarterly dividend in the fourth quarter of 2013 in order to focus every resource available in exploiting investment opportunities in the market. Our last dividend of $0.015 per share was declared in August 2013 and was paid in September 2013. This was the thirty-second consecutive quarterly dividend declared and paid. We have not declared any dividends to our common stockholders since then, and we may not resume dividend payments as we may not earn sufficient revenues or we may incur expenses or liabilities that would reduce or eliminate the cash available for distribution as dividends. Our loan agreements may also limit the amount of dividends we can pay under some circumstances based on certain covenants included in the loan agreements. The declaration and payment of any dividends will be subject at all times to the discretion of our Board of Directors. Our Series B Preferred Shares provide that we must pay a cash dividend to holders of the Series B Preferred Shares in an amount equal to 40% of any dividend we pay on our common shares on an as-converted-basis in addition to payment in cash (and not "Payment-In-Kind") of the dividend of the Series B Preferred Shares that is payable at the time except if the dividend payable to the Series B Preferred Shares is 0%, in which case we will pay the greater of a cash dividend of 5% and 40% of the common share dividend on an as-converted-basis. This provision may be an important factor when our Board of Directors determines whether to declare dividends on our common shares. The timing and amount of dividends will depend on our earnings, financial condition, cash requirements and availability, restrictions in our loan agreements, growth strategy, charter rates in the drybulk and container shipping industry, the provisions of Marshall Islands law affecting the payment of dividends and other factors. Marshall Islands law generally prohibits the payment of dividends other than from surplus (retained earnings and the excess of consideration received for the sale of shares above the par value of the shares), but, if there is no surplus, dividends may be declared out of the net profits (basically, the excess of our revenue over our expenses) for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared or the preceding fiscal year. Marshall Islands law also prohibits the payment of dividends while a company is insolvent or if it would be rendered insolvent upon the payment of a dividend. As a result, we may not be able to pay dividends. If we are unable to fund our capital expenditures, we may not be able to continue to operate some of our vessels, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to pay dividends. In order to fund our capital expenditures, we may be required to incur borrowings or raise capital through the sale of debt or equity securities. Our ability to access the capital markets through future offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such offering as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain the funds for necessary future capital expenditures would limit our ability to continue to operate some of our vessels and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. Even if we are successful in obtaining such funds through financings, the terms of such financings could further limit our ability to pay dividends. 20 If we fail to manage our planned growth properly, we may not be able to successfully expand our market share. We intend to continue to grow our fleet. Our growth will depend on: · locating and acquiring suitable vessels; · identifying and consummating acquisitions or joint ventures; · integrating any acquired business successfully with our existing operations; · enhancing our customer base; · managing our expansion; and · obtaining required financing on acceptable terms. During periods in which charter rates are high, vessel values generally are high as well, and it may be difficult to consummate vessel acquisitions at favorable prices. When vessel prices are low, charter rates are also low and any vessel acquisition might require additional investment to cover shortfalls from operations until rates recover. In addition, growing any business by acquisition – especially if acquiring entire companies – presents numerous risks, such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations and difficulty experienced in (1) maintaining and obtaining additional qualified personnel, (2) managing relationships with customers and suppliers, (3) integrating newly acquired operations into existing infrastructures and (4) identifying new and profitable charter opportunities for vessels and complying with new loan covenants. We have not identified further expansion opportunities at this time, and the nature and timing of any such expansion is uncertain. We may not be successful in executing our growth plans, and we are not certain that we will not incur significant expenses and losses in connection with the execution of those growth plans. A decline in the market value of our vessels could lead to a default under our loan agreements and the loss of our vessels. We have incurred secured debt under loan agreements for our vessels. If the market value of our fleet declines, we may not be in compliance with certain provisions of our existing loan agreements and we may not be able to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to pledge additional collateral, our lenders could accelerate our debt and foreclose on our fleet. Our existing loan agreements contain restrictive covenants that may limit our liquidity and corporate activities. Our existing loan agreements impose operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions may limit our ability to: · incur additional indebtedness; · create liens on our assets; · sell capital stock of our subsidiaries; 21 · make investments; · engage in mergers or acquisitions; · pay dividends; · make capital expenditures; · change the management of our vessels or terminate or materially amend the management agreement relating to each vessel; and · sell our vessels. Therefore, we may need to seek permission from our lenders in order to engage in some corporate actions. The lenders' interests may be different from our interests, and we may not be able to obtain the lenders' permission when needed. This may prevent us from taking actions that are in our best interest. Servicing future debt would limit funds available for other purposes. To finance our fleet, we have incurred secured debt under loan agreements for our vessels. We also currently expect to incur additional secured debt to finance the acquisition of additional vessels we may decide to acquire in the future. We must dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to pay the principal and interest on our debt. These payments limit funds otherwise available for working capital expenditures and other purposes. As of December 31, 2014, we had total bank debt of approximately $54.26 million. As of March 31, 2015, we had repaid $1.92 million of our total bank debt leaving us with total bank debt of $52.34 million. Our debt repayment schedule as of December 31, 2014 requires us to repay $34.58 million of debt during the next two years. If we are unable to service our debt, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A rise in interest rates could cause an increase in our costs and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. To finance vessel purchases, we have borrowed, and may continue to borrow, under loan agreements that provide for periodic interest rate adjustments based on indices that fluctuate with changes in market interest rates. If interest rates increase significantly, it would increase our costs of financing our acquisition of vessels, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any increase in debt service would also reduce the funds available to us to purchase other vessels. Our ability to obtain additional debt financing may be dependent on the performance of our then existing charters and the creditworthiness of our charterers. The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, and any defaults by them, may materially affect our ability to obtain the additional debt financing that we will require to purchase additional vessels or may significantly increase our costs of obtaining such financing. Our inability to obtain additional financing at all or at a higher than anticipated cost may materially affect our results of operations, cash flows and our ability to implement our business strategy. The current low charter rates and values and any future declines in these rates may affect our ability to comply with various covenants in our secured loan agreements, and may cause us to incur impairment charges or to incur a loss if vessel values are low at a time when we are attempting to dispose of a vessel. Our secured loan agreements, which are secured by mortgages on our vessels, contain various financial covenants. Among those covenants are requirements that relate to our net worth, operating performance and liquidity. For example, there is a minimum equity ratio requirement that is based, in part, upon the market value of the vessels securing the loans, as well as requirements to maintain a minimum ratio of the market value of our vessels mortgaged thereunder to our aggregate outstanding balance under each respective loan agreement. The market value of vessels is sensitive, among other things, to changes in the charter markets, with vessel values deteriorating in times when charter rates are falling and improving when charter rates are anticipated to rise. The current still relatively low charter rates (although improved since the end of 2014) in the containership market and the extremely low charter rates in the drybulk markets coupled with the prevailing difficulty in obtaining financing for vessel purchases have adversely affected containership values. A continuation of these conditions would lead to 22 a further significant decline in the fair market values of our vessels, which may result in our not being in compliance with these loan covenants. In such a situation, unless our lenders were willing to provide waivers of covenant compliance or modifications to our covenants, or would be willing to refinance, we would have to sell vessels in our fleet and/or seek to raise additional capital in the equity markets. Furthermore, if the market value of our vessels further deteriorates significantly, we may have to record an impairment adjustment in our financial statements, which would adversely affect our financial results and further hinder our ability to raise capital as we did with our drybulk vessel M/V Aristides NP in the fourth quarter of 2014. As we expand our business, we may need to upgrade our operations and financial systems, and add more staff and crew. If we cannot upgrade these systems or recruit suitable employees, our performance may be adversely affected. Our Manager's current operating and financial systems may not be adequate if we expand the size of our fleet, and our attempts to improve those systems may be ineffective. In addition, if we expand our fleet, we will have to rely on Eurobulk to recruit suitable additional seafarers and shoreside administrative and management personnel. Eurobulk may not be able to continue to hire suitable employees as we expand our fleet. If Eurobulk's unaffiliated crewing agent encounters business or financial difficulties, we may not be able to adequately staff our vessels. If we are unable to operate our financial and operations systems effectively or to recruit suitable employees, our performance may be materially adversely affected. If we acquire additional ships, whether on the secondhand market or newbuildings, and those vessels are not delivered on time or are delivered with significant defects, our earnings and financial condition could be adversely affected. We expect to acquire additional vessels in the future either from the secondhand markets or by placing newbuilding orders. In fact, we expect to take delivery of four drybulk vessels in 2015 and 2016 based on newbuilding orders we placed in 2014. A delay in the delivery of any of these vessels to us or the failure of the contract counterparty to deliver a vessel at all could cause us to breach our obligations under a related time charter and could adversely affect our earnings, our financial condition and the amount of dividends, if any, that we pay in the future. The delivery of these vessels, whether newbuildings or secondhand vessels, could be delayed or certain events may arise which could result in us not taking delivery of a vessel, such as a total loss of a vessel, a constructive loss of a vessel, or substantial damage to a vessel prior to delivery. In addition, the delivery of any of these vessels with substantial defects could have similar consequences. We may have difficulty properly managing our planned growth through acquisitions of our newbuilds and additional vessels. We intend to grow our business through the acquisition of our contracted four newbuilding vessels and we may make selective acquisitions of additional vessels. Our future growth will primarily depend on our ability to locate and acquire suitable additional vessels, enlarge our customer base, operate and supervise any newbuilds we may order and obtain required debt or equity financing on acceptable terms. A delay in the delivery to us of any such vessel, or the failure of the shipyard to deliver a vessel at all, could cause us to breach our obligations under a related charter and could adversely affect our earnings. In addition, the delivery of any of these vessels with substantial defects could have similar consequences. A shipyard could fail to deliver a newbuild on time or at all because of: • work stoppages or other hostilities, political or economic disturbances that disrupt the operations of the shipyard; • quality or engineering problems; • bankruptcy or other financial crisis of the shipyard; • a backlog of orders at the shipyard; 23 • disputes between us and the shipyard regarding contractual obligations; • weather interference or catastrophic events, such as major earthquakes or fires; • our requests for changes to the original vessel specifications or disputes with the shipyard; or • shortages of or delays in the receipt of necessary construction materials, such as steel, or equipment, such as main engines, electricity generators and propellers. In addition, we may seek to terminate one or more of the newbuilding contracts that we entered into in 2013 and 2014 due to market conditions, financing limitations or other reasons. The outcome of contract termination negotiations may require us to forego deposits on construction and pay additional cancellation fees. In addition, where we have already arranged a future charter with respect to the terminated newbuilding contract, we would need to provide an acceptable substitute vessel to the charterer to avoid breaching our charter agreement if the charter agreement does not prevent substitution of the vessel or if a substitute vessel is unavailable from our fleet. During periods in which charter rates are high, vessel values generally are high as well, and it may be difficult to consummate vessel acquisitions or enter into newbuilding contracts at favorable prices. During periods when charter rates are low, we may be unable to fund the acquisition of newbuilding vessels, whether through lending or cash on hand. For these reasons, we may be unable to execute our growth plans or avoid significant expenses and losses in connection with our future growth efforts. Credit market volatility may affect our ability to refinance our existing debt or incur additional debt. The credit markets have recently experienced extreme volatility and disruption, which has limited credit capacity for certain issuers, and lenders have requested shorter terms and lower loan-to-value ratios. The market for new debt financing is extremely limited and in some cases not available at all. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, we may not be able to refinance our existing debt or incur additional debt, which may require us to seek other funding sources to meet our liquidity needs or to fund planned expansion. Labor interruptions could disrupt our business. Our vessels are manned by masters, officers and crews that are employed by third parties. If not resolved in a timely and cost-effective manner, industrial action or other labor unrest could prevent or hinder our operations from being carried out normally and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. We will not be able to take advantage of potentially favorable opportunities in the current spot market with respect to vessels employed on time charters. As of April 30, 2015, all but one of the vessels in our fleet (except three still under construction) are employed under time charters with remaining terms ranging from less than one month to 8 months based on the minimum duration of the charter contracts. The percentage of our fleet that is under time charter contracts or voyage charters represents approximately 40% of our vessel capacity in the remainder of 2015 and 6% of our capacity in 2016. Although time charters provide relatively steady streams of revenue, vessels committed to time charters may not be available for spot charters during periods of increasing charter hire rates, when spot charters might be more profitable. If we cannot re-charter these vessels on time charters or trade them in the spot market profitably, our results of operations and operating cash flow may suffer. We may not be able to secure charter hire rates in the future that will enable us to operate our vessels profitably. During parts of 2009 and 2010, three of our containerships were laid-up. All but one of our vessels are currently employed (except three still under construction) but we may be forced to lay up vessels if rates drop to very low levels for prolonged periods of time. Although we do not receive any revenues from certain of our vessels while such vessels are unemployed, we are required to pay expenses necessary to maintain the vessel in proper operating condition, insure it and service any indebtedness secured by such vessel. 24 We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel and other employees in the shipping industry, which may negatively affect the effectiveness of our management and our results of operations. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our management team. Our success will depend upon our and our Manager's ability to hire additional employees and to retain key members of our management team. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition and operating cash flows. Difficulty in hiring and retaining personnel could adversely affect our results of operations. We do not currently intend to maintain "key man" life insurance on any of our officers. Risks involved with operating ocean-going vessels could affect our business and reputation, which may reduce our revenues. The operation of an ocean-going vessel carries inherent risks. These risks include, among others, the possibility of: · marine disaster; · piracy; · environmental accidents; · grounding, fire, explosions and collisions; · cargo and property losses or damage; · business interruptions caused by mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, political action in various countries, labor strikes or adverse weather conditions; and · work stoppages or other labor problems with crew members serving on our vessels including crew strikes and/or boycotts. Such occurrences could result in death or injury to persons, loss of property or environmental damage, delays in the delivery of cargo, loss of revenues from or termination of charter contracts, governmental fines, penalties or restrictions on conducting business, higher insurance rates, and damage to our reputation and customer relationships generally. Any of these circumstances or events could increase our costs or lower our revenues, which could result in reduction in the market price of our shares of common stock. For example, one of our vessels, M/V Eleni P, was involved in a piracy incident in 2010 and it took us nine months to secure its release. The involvement of our vessels in an environmental disaster may harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. The operation of drybulk carriers has certain unique operational risks which could affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. The operation of certain ship types, such as drybulk carriers, has certain unique risks. With a drybulk carrier, the cargo itself and its interaction with the ship can be a risk factor. By their nature, drybulk cargoes are often heavy, dense, easily shifted, and react badly to water exposure. In addition, drybulk carriers are often subjected to battering treatment during unloading operations with grabs, jackhammers (to pry encrusted cargoes out of the hold), and small bulldozers. This treatment may cause damage to the vessel. Vessels damaged due to treatment during unloading procedures may be more susceptible to breach to the sea. Hull breaches in drybulk carriers may lead to the flooding of the vessels holds. If a drybulk carrier suffers flooding in its forward holds, the bulk cargo may become so dense and waterlogged that its pressure may buckle the vessels bulkheads leading to the loss of a vessel. If we are unable to adequately maintain our vessels we may be unable to prevent these events. Any of these circumstances or events could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. In addition, the loss of any of our vessels could harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. The operation of containerships has certain unique operational risks which could affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. The operation of containerships has certain unique risks. Containerships operate at higher speeds as compared to other ocean-going vessels in order to move cargoes around the world quickly and minimize delivery delays. These high speeds can result in greater impact in collisions and groundings resulting in more damage to the vessel 25 when compared to vessels operating at lower speeds. In addition, due to the placement of the containers on a containership, there is a greater risk that containers carried on deck will be lost overboard if an accident does occur. Furthermore, with the highly varied cargo that can be carried on a single containership, there can be additional difficulties with any clean-up operation following an accident. Also, we may not be able to correctly control the contents and condition of cargoes within the containers which may give rise to events such as customer complaints, accidents on-board the ships or problems with authorities due to carriage of illegal cargoes. Any of these circumstances or events could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. In addition, the loss of any of our vessels could harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel owner and operator. Our vessels may suffer damage and may face unexpected drydocking costs, which could affect our cash flow and financial condition. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and may be substantial. We may have to pay drydocking costs that our insurance does not cover. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired and reconditioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings. In addition, space at drydocking facilities is sometimes limited and not all drydocking facilities are conveniently located. We may be unable to find space at a suitable drydocking facility or our vessels may be forced to travel to a drydocking facility that is not conveniently located near our vessels' positions. The loss of earnings and any costs incurred while these vessels are forced to wait for space or to steam to more distant drydocking facilities would decrease our earnings. Purchasing and operating previously owned, or secondhand, vessels may result in increased operating costs and vessels off-hire, which could adversely affect our earnings. The aging of our fleet may result in increased operating costs in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Although we inspect the secondhand vessels prior to purchase, this inspection does not provide us with the same knowledge about their condition and cost of any required (or anticipated) repairs that it would have had if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. Generally, we do not receive the benefit of warranties on secondhand vessels. In general, the costs to maintain a vessel in good operating condition increase with the age of the vessel. As of April 1, 2015, the vessels in our fleet had an average age of approximately 18.5 years. As our vessels age, they may become less fuel efficient and more costly to maintain and will not be as advanced as more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in design and engine technology. Rates for cargo insurance, paid by charterers, also increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for alterations, or the addition of new equipment, to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which our vessels may engage. As our vessels age, market conditions may not justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. In addition, charterers actively discriminate against hiring older vessels. For example, Rightship, the ship vetting service founded by Rio Tinto and BHP-Billiton that has become the major vetting service in the dry bulk shipping industry, ranks the suitability of vessels based on a scale of one to five stars. Most major carriers will not charter a vessel that Rightship has vetted with fewer than three stars. Rightship automatically downgrades any vessel over 18 years of age to two stars, which significantly decreases its chances of entering into a charter. Therefore, as our vessels approach and exceed 18 years of age, we may not be able to operate these vessels again profitably or even generate positive cash flows during the remainder of their useful lives even if the market rates improve, which could adversely affect our earnings. As of April 1, 2015, eight of our vessels are over 18 years of age. Governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for alterations, or the addition of new equipment, to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which the vessels may engage. As our vessels age, market conditions may not justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. If we sell vessels, we are not certain that the price for which we sell them will equal their carrying amount at that time. 26 Unless we set aside reserves for vessel replacement, at the end of a vessel's useful life, our revenue will decline, which would adversely affect our cash flows and income. As of April 1, 2015, the vessels in our fleet had an average age of approximately 19 years. Unless we maintain cash reserves for vessel replacement, we may be unable to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their useful lives. We estimate the useful life of our vessels to be 25 years from the completion of their construction. Our cash flows and income are dependent on the revenues we earn by chartering our vessels to customers. If we are unable to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their useful lives, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Any reserves set aside for vessel replacement would not be available for other cash needs or dividends. Technological innovation could reduce our charter hire income and the value of our vessels. The charter hire rates and the value and operational life of a vessel are determined by a number of factors including the vessel's efficiency, operational flexibility and physical life. Efficiency includes speed, fuel economy and the ability to load and discharge cargo quickly. Flexibility includes the ability to enter harbors, utilize related docking facilities and pass through canals and straits. The length of a vessel's physical life is related to its original design and construction, its maintenance and the impact of the stress of operations. If new vessels are built that are more efficient or more flexible or have longer physical lives than our vessels, competition from these more technologically advanced vessels could adversely affect the amount of charter hire payments we receive for our vessels once their initial charters expire and the resale value of our vessels could significantly decrease. As a result, our available cash could be adversely affected. We are subject to certain risks with respect to our counterparties on contracts, and failure of such counterparties to meet their obligations could cause us to suffer losses or otherwise adversely affect our business. We enter into, among other things, charterparty agreements. Such agreements subject us to counterparty risks. The ability and willingness of each of our counterparties to perform its obligations under a contract with us will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions, the condition of the maritime and offshore industries, the overall financial condition of the counterparty, charter rates received for specific types of vessels, and various expenses. In addition, in depressed market conditions, our charterers may no longer need a vessel that is currently under charter or may be able to obtain a comparable vessel at lower rates. As a result, charterers may seek to renegotiate the terms of their existing charter parties or avoid their obligations under those contracts and there have been reports of charterers, including some of our charter counterparties, renegotiating their charters counterparties or defaulting on their obligations under charters and our customers may fail to pay charter hire or attempt to renegotiate charter rates. Should a counterparty fail to honor its obligations under agreements with us, it may be difficult to secure substitute employment for such vessel, and any new charter arrangements we secure in the spot market or on time charters would be at lower rates given currently decreased charter rate levels. If our charterers fail to meet their obligations to us or attempt to renegotiate our charter agreements, it may be difficult to secure substitute employment for such vessel, and any new charter arrangements we secure in the spot market or on time charters may be at lower rates given currently decreased charter rate levels, particularly in the dry bulk carrier market and as a result we could sustain significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as our ability to pay dividends in the future and compliance with covenants in our credit facilities. We may not have adequate insurance to compensate us adequately for damage to, or loss of, our vessels. We procure insurance for our fleet against risks commonly insured against by vessel owners and operators which includes hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance (which, in turn, includes environmental damage and pollution insurance) and war risk insurance and freight, demurrage and defense insurance for our fleet. We generally do not maintain insurance against loss of hire which covers business interruptions that result in the loss of use of a vessel except in cases we consider such protection appropriate. We may not be adequately insured against all risks and we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for our fleet in the future. The insurers may not pay particular claims. Even if our insurance coverage is adequate to 27 cover our losses, we may not be able to timely obtain a replacement vessel in the event of a loss. Our insurance policies contain deductibles for which we will be responsible and limitations and exclusions which may increase our costs. Since it is possible that a large number of claims may be brought, the aggregate amount of these deductibles could be material. Moreover, the insurers may default on any claims they are required to pay. If our insurance is not enough to cover claims that may arise, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Because we obtain some of our insurance through protection and indemnity associations, we may also be subject to calls in amounts based not only on our own claim records, but also the claim records of other members of the protection and indemnity associations. We are indemnified for legal liabilities incurred while operating our vessels through membership in P&I associations or clubs. P&I associations are mutual insurance associations whose members must contribute to cover losses sustained by other association members. The objective of a P&I association is to provide mutual insurance based on the aggregate tonnage of a member's vessels entered into the association. Claims are paid through the aggregate premiums of all members of the association, although members remain subject to calls for additional funds if the aggregate premiums are insufficient to cover claims submitted to the association. We cannot assure you that the P&I association to which we belong will remain viable or that we will not become subject to additional funding calls which could adversely affect us. Claims submitted to the association may include those incurred by members of the association as well as claims submitted to the association from other P&I associations with which our P&I association has entered into inter-association agreements. We may be subject to calls in amounts based not only on our claim records but also the claim records of other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive insurance coverage for tort liability, including pollution-related liability. Our payment of these calls could result in significant expense to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Our international operations expose us to risks of terrorism and piracy that may interfere with the operation of our vessels, which could adversely affect our business. We are an international company and primarily conduct our operations outside the United States of America. Changing economic, political and governmental conditions in the countries where we are engaged in business or where our vessels are registered affect our operations. In the past, political conflicts, particularly in the Arabian Gulf, resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt shipping in the area. Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea and in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Throughout 2008, 2009 and 2010, the frequency of piracy incidents increased significantly, particularly in the Gulf of Aden, with dry bulk vessels and tankers especially vulnerable to such attacks. The number of pirate attacks against vessels worldwide dropped slightly during 2011 and more notably during 2012 and significantly during 2013 and 2014. There have been several examples of publicized reports of vessel hijackings in recent years. In February 2009, the Saldanha, a vessel not affiliated with us, was seized by pirates while transporting coal through the Gulf of Aden and, in April 2009, the Maersk Alabama, a 17,000-ton container ship not affiliated with us, was seized by Somali pirates. Both of these ships were also later released. These types of events may result in loss of revenues, increased costs and decreased cash flows to our customers, which could impair their ability to make payments to us under our charters. On May 12, 2010, one of our vessels, Eleni P, was hijacked by pirates off the East Coast of Africa. This matter was resolved and the Eleni P was released on December 11, 2010. All the crew of the Eleni P was safely repatriated and the vessel was repaired in China after the seven months of forced lay-up in Somalia, which had caused deterioration to the ship's hull and engines. If these piracy attacks result in regions (in which our vessels are deployed) being characterized by insurers as "war risk" zones, as the Gulf of Aden temporarily was in May 2008, or Joint War Committee (JWC) "war and 28 strikes" listed areas, premiums payable for such insurance coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. Crew costs, including those due to employing onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances. In addition, while we believe the charterer remains liable for charter payments when a vessel is seized by pirates, the charterer may dispute this and withhold charter hire until the vessel is released. A charterer may also claim that a vessel seized by pirates was not "on-hire" for a certain number of days and it is therefore entitled to cancel the charter party, a claim that we would dispute. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. When our vessels are the targets of such incidents (see preceding risk factor), this could result in loss or damage of our vessels and a loss of operating revenue. In addition, any detention hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against our vessels, or an increase in cost, or unavailability of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The U.S. government has imposed legislation concerning the deteriorating situation in Somalia, including acts of piracy off the coast of Somalia. On April 13, 2010, the President of the United States issued an Executive Order, which we refer to as the "Order", prohibiting, among other things, the payment of monies to or for the benefit of individuals and entities on the list of Specially Designated Nationals, or SDNs, published by U.S. Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control. Certain individuals associated with piracy off the coast of Somalia are currently designated persons under the SDN list. The Order is applicable only to payments by U.S. persons and not by foreign entities such as Euroseas. Notwithstanding this fact, it is possible that the Order, and the regulations promulgated therefrom, may affect foreign private issuers to the extent that such foreign private issuers provide monies, such as ransom payments to secure the release of crews and ships in the event of detention hijackings, to any SDN for which they seek reimbursement from a U.S. insurance carrier. While additional regulations relating to the Order may be promulgated by the U.S. government in the future, we cannot predict what effect these regulations may have on our operations. If our vessels call on ports located in countries that are subject to restrictions, sanctions or embargoes imposed by the U.S. government, it could adversely affect our reputation and the market for our shares of common stock and its trading price. From time to time, vessels in our fleet on charterers' instructions may call on ports located in countries subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government and countries identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism such as Cuba, Iran, Sudan and Syria. We endeavor to have trade exclusion clauses included in the charter contracts. All of our charters contain trade exclusion clauses relating to, among other locations, countries deemed by the United States as state sponsors of terrorism. The U.S. sanctions and embargo laws and regulations vary in their application, as they do not all apply to the same covered persons or proscribe the same activities, and such sanctions and embargo laws and regulations may be amended or strengthened over time. The U.S. government has recently lifted certain sanctions with respect to Libya and expanded existing sanctions with respect to Iran. On February 25, 2011, an executive order titled Blocking Property and Prohibiting Certain Transactions Related to Libya, or the Libya Executive Order, was issued prohibiting U.S. persons from making or receiving contributions or provisions of funds, goods or services to or from certain entities and individuals whose property or interests in property are blocked by the Libya Executive Order. Entities and individuals with whom such transactions are specifically prohibited include, but are not limited to, certain members of the Gadhafi family, the Libyan government (including its senior officials, agencies, instrumentalities and controlled entities) and the Central Bank of Libya. However, following the United States' recognition on July 15, 2011 of the Transitional National Council of Libya (TNC) as the legitimate governing authority for Libya, OFAC issued a series of General Licenses which authorize all transactions involving the TNC and the Government of Libya, subject to certain limitations. The names of persons who remain designated pursuant to the Libya Executive Order are published on the United States Specially Designated Nationals List. With effect from July 1, 2010, the U.S. enacted the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions Accountability and Divestment Act, or CISADA, which expanded the scope of the Iran Sanctions Act. Among other things, CISADA expands the application of the prohibitions to companies, such as ours, and introduces limits on the ability of companies and persons to do business or trade with Iran when such activities relate to the investment, supply or export of refined petroleum or petroleum products. In addition, on May 1, 2012, President Obama signed 29 Executive Order 13608 which prohibits foreign persons from violating or attempting to violate, or causing a violation of any sanctions in effect against Iran or facilitating any deceptive transactions for or on behalf of any person subject to U.S. sanctions. Any persons found to be in violation of Executive Order 13608 will be deemed a foreign sanctions evader and will be banned from all contacts with the United States, including conducting business in U.S. dollars. Also in 2012, President Obama signed into law the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, or the Iran Threat Reduction Act, which created new sanctions and strengthened existing sanctions. Among other things, the Iran Threat Reduction Act intensifies existing sanctions regarding the provision of goods, services, infrastructure or technology to Iran's petroleum or petrochemical sector. The Iran Threat Reduction Act also includes a provision requiring the President of the United States to impose five or more sanctions from Section 6(a) of the Iran Sanctions Act, as amended, on a person the President determines is a controlling beneficial owner of, or otherwise owns, operates, or controls or insures a vessel that was used to transport crude oil from Iran to another country and (1) if the person is a controlling beneficial owner of the vessel, the person had actual knowledge the vessel was so used or (2) if the person otherwise owns, operates, or controls, or insures the vessel, the person knew or should have known the vessel was so used. Such a person could be subject to a variety of sanctions, including exclusion from U.S. capital markets, exclusion from financial transactions subject to U.S. jurisdiction, and exclusion of that person's vessels from U.S. ports for up to two years. Almost all of the Company's revenues are from chartering-out its vessels on time charter contracts. Some of the Company's drybulk vessels had also entered into pooling arrangements under which an international company and trading house involved in the use and/or transportation of drybulk commodities directs the Company's vessel to carry cargoes on its behalf. In both time charters and pooling arrangements, the Company has no contractual relationship with the owner of the cargo and does not know the identity of the cargo owner. The vessel is directed to a load port to load the cargo, and to a discharge port to offload the cargo, based solely on the instructions of the charterer. Under its time charters and pooling arrangements, the terms of which are consistent with industry standards, the Company may not have the ability to prohibit its charterers from sending its vessels to Iran, Syria, Sudan or Cuba to carry cargoes that do not violate applicable laws. During 2010, our containership, m/v Manolis P, made eight calls to Syria (Tartus and Latakia); under the terms of its time charter, the charterer employed the vessel in its liner service between Port Said, Mersin and Tartus or Latakia in Syria. In all cases, the cargo involved was that of the charterer and the charterer's clients not of the Company. Each port call lasted 1-3 days. During the period from the first call at Tartus in March 2010 to the last call at the same port in October 2010, the vessel earned about $1.2 million from its charter to Maersk Line which paid all port costs (total voyages expenses in the entire 2010 for m/v Manolis P were approximately $65,000). The amount of revenue earned by the Company with respect to the employment of m/v Manolis P during this period, a portion of which can be attributed to its calls at Syrian ports, represented 2.2% of the total operating revenues of the Company of $54.4 million during 2010. We consider these amounts to be immaterial to our results of operations both quantitatively and qualitatively. Additionally, we do not consider the investment risk to be material in qualitative terms because we believe that we are in compliance with all applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations, and intend to maintain such compliance. However, we might not be in compliance with all applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations in the future, particularly as the scope of certain laws may be unclear and may be subject to changing interpretations. Any such violation could result in fines, penalties or other sanctions that could severely impact our ability to access U.S. capital markets and conduct our business, and could result in some investors deciding, or being required, to divest their interest, or not to invest, in us. In addition, certain institutional investors may have investment policies or restrictions that prevent them from holding securities of companies that have contracts with countries identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism. The determination by these investors not to invest in, or to divest from, our common stock may adversely affect the price at which our common stock trades. Moreover, our charterers may violate applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations as a result of actions that do not involve us or our vessels, and those violations could in turn negatively affect our reputation. In addition, our reputation and the market for our securities may be adversely affected if we engage in certain other activities, such as entering into charters with individuals or entities in countries subject to U.S. sanctions and embargo laws that are not controlled by the governments of those countries, or engaging in operations associated with those countries pursuant to contracts with third parties that are unrelated to those countries or entities controlled by their governments. Investor perception of the value of our common stock may be adversely affected by the consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest and governmental actions in these and surrounding countries. 30 We expect to operate substantially outside the United States, which will expose us to political and governmental instability, which could harm our operations. We expect that our operations will be primarily conducted outside the United States and may be adversely affected by changing or adverse political and governmental conditions in the countries where our vessels are flagged or registered and in the regions where we otherwise engage in business. Any disruption caused by these factors may interfere with the operation of our vessels, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Past political efforts to disrupt shipping in these regions, particularly in the Arabian Gulf, have included attacks on ships and mining of waterways. In addition, terrorist attacks outside this region, such as the attacks that occurred against targets in the United States on September 11, 2001, Spain on March 11, 2004, London on July 7, 2005, Mumbai on November 26, 2008 and continuing or new unrest and hostilities in Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya, Egypt, Ukraine and elsewhere in the world may lead to additional armed conflicts or to further acts of terrorism and civil disturbance in the United States and elsewhere. Any such attacks or disturbances may disrupt our business, increase vessel operating costs, including insurance costs, and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our operations may also be adversely affected by expropriation of vessels, taxes, regulation, tariffs, trade embargoes, economic sanctions or a disruption of or limit to trading activities or other adverse events or circumstances in or affecting the countries and regions where we operate or where we may operate in the future. Obligations associated with being a public company require significant company resources and management attention. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, and the other rules and regulations of the SEC, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We work with our legal, accounting and financial advisors to identify any areas in which changes should be made to our financial and management control systems to manage our growth and our obligations as a public company. We evaluate areas such as corporate governance, corporate control, internal audit, disclosure controls and procedures and financial reporting and accounting systems. We will make changes in any of these and other areas, including our internal control over financial reporting, which we believe are necessary. However, these and other measures we may take may not be sufficient to allow us to satisfy our obligations as a public company on a timely and reliable basis. In addition, compliance with reporting and other requirements applicable to public companies do create additional costs for us and will require the time and attention of management. Our limited management resources may exacerbate the difficulties in complying with these reporting and other requirements while focusing on executing our business strategy. We may not be able to predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur, the timing of such costs or the degree of impact that our management's attention to these matters will have on our business. Exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations will result in fluctuations in our cash flows and operating results. We generate all our revenues in U.S. dollars, but we incur approximately 31% of our vessel operating expenses and drydocking expenses, all of our vessel management fees, and approximately 5% in 2014 of our general and administrative expenses in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. This difference could lead to fluctuations in our operating expenses, which would affect our financial results. Expenses incurred in foreign currencies increase when the value of the U.S. dollar falls, which would reduce our profitability and cash flows. Interest rates in most loan agreements in our industry are based on variable components, such as LIBOR, and if such variable components increase significantly, it could affect our profitability, earnings and cash flow. LIBOR in the past has been volatile, with the spread between LIBOR and the prime lending rate widening significantly at times. These conditions can be the result of disruptions in the international credit markets. Because the interest rates borne by our outstanding indebtedness fluctuate with changes in LIBOR, if this volatility were to 31 continue, it would affect the amount of interest payable to service our debt, which in turn, could have an adverse effect on our profitability, earnings and cash flow. Furthermore, interest rates in most loan agreements in our industry have been based on published LIBOR rates. Recently, however, lenders have insisted on provisions that entitle the lenders, in their discretion, to replace published LIBOR as the base for the interest calculation with their cost-of-funds rate if the quoted LIBOR rate does not reflect their true cost-of-funds or if it is unavailable. Since some of our loans have such clauses, our borrowing costs could increase significantly if there is a market disruption of LIBOR, which could have an adverse effect on our profitability, earnings and cash flow. We depend upon a few significant customers for a large part of our revenues and the loss of one or more of these customers could adversely affect our financial performance. We have historically derived a significant part of our revenues from a small number of charterers. During 2014, approximately 52% of our revenues derived from our top five charterers. During 2013 and 2012, approximately 45% and 50%, respectively, of our revenues derived from our top five charterers. If one or more of our charterers chooses not to charter our vessels or is unable to perform under one or more charters with us and we are not able to find a replacement charter, we could suffer a loss of revenues that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. United States tax authorities could treat us as a "passive foreign investment company," which could have adverse United States federal income tax consequences to United States holders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a "passive foreign investment company," or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of "passive income" or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation's assets produce or are held for the production of those types of "passive income." For purposes of these tests, "passive income" includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute "passive income." United States shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous United States federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. In addition, for taxable years beginning after March 18, 2010, United States shareholders of a PFIC are required to file annual information returns with the United States Internal Revenue Service, or IRS. Based on our current method of operation, we do not believe that we have been, are or will be a PFIC with respect to any taxable year. In this regard, we treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that our income from our time chartering activities should not constitute "passive income," and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income should not constitute passive assets. There is substantial legal authority supporting this position consisting of case law and IRS pronouncements concerning the characterization of income derived from time charters and voyage charters as services income for other tax purposes. However, it should be noted that there is also authority which characterizes time charter income as rental income rather than services income for other tax purposes. Accordingly, in the absence of legal authority directly relating to PFIC rules, no assurance can be given that the IRS or a court of law will accept this position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if the nature and extent of our operations changed. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our United States shareholders will face adverse United States federal income tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless those shareholders make an election available under the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, (which election could itself have adverse consequences for such shareholders, as discussed in Item 10 of this Annual Report under 32 "Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders"), such shareholders would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at the then prevailing income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our shares, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the United States shareholder's holding period of our shares. See "Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders" in this Annual Report under Item 10 for a more comprehensive discussion of the United States federal income tax consequences to United States shareholders if we are treated as a PFIC. Based on the current and expected composition of our and our subsidiaries' assets and income, it is not anticipated that we will be treated as a PFIC. Our actual PFIC status for any taxable year, however, will not be determinable until after the end of such taxable year. Accordingly there can be no assurances regarding our status as a PFIC for the current taxable year or any future taxable year. See the discussion in the section entitled "Item 10.E. Taxation — Passive Foreign Investment Company Regulations." We urge U.S. Holders to consult with their own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the PFIC rules. If management is unable to provide reports as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley, we are required to include in each of our annual reports on Form 20-F a report containing our management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If, in such annual reports on Form 20-F, our management cannot provide a report as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as required by Section 404, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. We may have to pay United States federal income tax on United States source income, which would reduce our earnings. Under the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States may be subject to a 4% United States federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder. We believe that we and each of our subsidiaries qualify for this statutory tax exemption under Section 883 of the Code and we have taken this position for United States federal income tax return reporting purposes. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to lose the benefit of this tax exemption and thereby become subject to United States federal income tax on our United States source shipping income. For example, we would fail to qualify for exemption under Section 883 of the Code for a particular tax year if shareholders, each of whom owned, actually or under applicable constructive ownership rules, a 5% or greater interest in the vote and value of the outstanding shares of our stock, owned in the aggregate 50% or more of the vote and value of the outstanding shares of our stock, and "qualified shareholders" as defined by the Treasury Regulation under Section 883 of the Code did not own, directly or under applicable constructive ownership rules, sufficient shares in our closely-held block of stock to preclude the shares in the closely-held block that are not so owned from representing 50% or more of the value of our stock for more than half of the number of days during the taxable year. Establishing such ownership by qualified shareholders will depend upon the status of certain of our direct or indirect shareholders as residents of qualifying jurisdictions and whether those shareholders own their shares through bearer share arrangements. In addition, such shareholders will also be required to comply with ownership certification procedures attesting that they are residents of qualifying jurisdictions, and each intermediary or other person in the chain of ownership between us and such shareholders must undertake similar compliance procedures. Due to the factual nature of the issues involved, we may not be able to maintain our tax-exempt status or that of any of our subsidiaries. If we or our subsidiaries are not entitled to exemption under Section 883 of the Code for any taxable year, we or our subsidiaries could be subject for those years to an effective 2% United States federal income tax on the shipping 33 income we derive during the year that are attributable to the transport of cargoes to or from the United States. The imposition of this taxation could have a negative effect on our business and could result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our shareholders. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could result in fines, criminal penalties, and an adverse effect on our business. We may operate in a number of countries throughout the world, including countries known to have a reputation for corruption. We are committed to doing business in accordance with applicable anti-corruption laws and have adopted a code of business conduct and ethics which is consistent and in full compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We are subject, however, to the risk that we, our affiliated entities or our or their respective officers, directors, employees and agents may take action determined to be in violation of such anti-corruption laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977. Any such violation could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil and/or criminal penalties, curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions, and might adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation and ability to do business. Furthermore, detecting, investigating, and resolving actual or alleged violations is expensive and can consume significant time and attention of our senior management. It may be difficult to enforce service of process and enforcement of judgments against us and our officers and directors. We are a Marshall Islands corporation, and our subsidiaries are incorporated in jurisdictions outside of the United States. Our executive offices are located outside of the United States in Maroussi, Greece. A majority of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of our officers and directors are located outside of the United States. As a result, you may have difficulty serving legal process within the United States upon us or any of these persons. You may also have difficulty enforcing, both in and outside of the United States, judgments you may obtain in the U.S. courts against us or these persons in any action, including actions based upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal or state securities laws. There is also substantial doubt that the courts of the Marshall Islands, Greece or jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries are organized would enter judgments in original actions brought in those courts predicated on U.S. federal or state securities laws. In addition, the protection afforded minority shareholders in the Marshall Islands is different than those offered in the United States. Risk Factors Relating To Our Common Stock The trading volume for our common stock has been low, which may cause our common stock to trade at lower prices and make it difficult for you to sell your common stock. Although our shares of common stock have traded on the Nasdaq Global Market since January 31, 2007 and on the Nasdaq Global Select Market since January 1, 2008, the trading volume has been lower over the last couple of years. Our shares may not actively trade in the public market and any such limited liquidity may cause our common stock to trade at lower prices and make it difficult to sell your common stock. The market price of our common stock has been and may in the future be subject to significant fluctuations. The market price of our common stock has been and may in the future be subject to significant fluctuations as a result of many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Among the factors that have in the past and could in the future affect our stock price are: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in quarterly and annual variations in our results of operations; · changes in market valuations or sales or earnings estimates or publication of research reports by analysts; · changes in earnings estimates or shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecasted by securities analysts; 34 · speculation in the press or investment community about our business or the shipping industry; · changes in market valuations of similar companies and stock market price and volume fluctuations generally; · payment of dividends; · strategic actions by us or our competitors such as mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic alliances or restructurings; · changes in government and other regulatory developments; · additions or departures of key personnel; · general market conditions and the state of the securities markets; and · domestic and international economic, market and currency factors unrelated to our performance. The international drybulk and container shipping industry has been highly unpredictable. In addition, the stock markets in general, and the markets for drybulk and container shipping and shipping stocks in general, have experienced extreme volatility that has sometimes been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our shares may trade at prices lower than you originally paid for such shares. We received notice from the Nasdaq Stock Market that our common stock did not meet its minimum share price requirement, and if we cannot cure this deficiency within the presceibed timeframe, our common stock could be delisted. Under the rules of the Nasdaq Stock Market, listed companies are required to maintain a share price of at least $1.00 per share. If the share price declines below $1.00 for a period of 30 consecutive business days, then the listed company has a cure period of at least 180 days to regain compliance with the $1.00 per share minimum. On December 30, 2014, we received notice from the Nasdaq Stock Market, to which we will refer as the Notice, indicating that we are no longer in compliance with Nasdaq's continued listing requirements under Nasdaq Listing Rule 5450(a)(1) because the closing bid price of our common stock over a period of 30 consecutive business days was less than $1.00 per share. The last reported sale price on the Nasdaq Global Select Market on April 29, 2015 was $0.75 per share. Pursuant to Nasdaq Listing Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), we have six months following receipt of the Notice to regain compliance with the minimum share price requirement. We can cure this deficiency if the closing bid price of its common stock is $1.00 per share or higher for at least ten consecutive business days during the six months following the date of the Notice. Alternatively, we could also take other actions to cure the deficiency, such as a reverse stock split (for which we have already received shareholder approval). We intend to cure the deficiency within the prescribed timeframe. During this time, our common stock will continue to be listed and trade on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. Our business operations are not affected by the receipt of the Notice. If the market price of our common stock remains below $5.00 per share, under stock exchange rules, our shareholders will not be able to use such shares as collateral for borrowing in margin accounts. This inability to continue to use our common stock as collateral may lead to sales of such shares creating downward pressure on and increased volatility in the market price of our common stock. Our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, Bylaws and Shareholders' Rights Plan contain anti-takeover provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent (1) our merger or acquisition and/or (2) the removal of incumbent directors and officers and (3) the ability of public shareholders to benefit from a change in control. Our current amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws contain certain anti-takeover provisions. These provisions include blank check preferred stock, the prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of directors, a classified Board of Directors, advance written notice for shareholder nominations for directors, removal of directors only for cause, advance written notice of shareholder proposals for the removal of directors and limitations on action by shareholders. In addition, we adopted a shareholders' rights plan pursuant to which our Board of Directors may cause the substantial dilution of any person that attempts to acquire us without the approval of our Board of Directors. These anti-takeover provisions, including provisions of our shareholders' rights plan, either individually or in the aggregate, may discourage, delay or prevent (1) our merger or acquisition by 35 means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise, that a shareholder may consider in its best interest, (2) the removal of incumbent directors and officers, and (3) the ability of public shareholders to benefit from a change in control. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of shareholders to benefit from a change in control and, as a result, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and shareholders' ability to realize any potential change of control premium. Future sales of our stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, may depress the market price for our common stock. These sales could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our equity securities in the future. We may issue additional shares of our stock in the future and our stockholders may elect to sell large numbers of shares held by them from time to time. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation authorize us to issue up to 200,000,000 shares of common stock and 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock. On March 25, 2010, we entered into the Joint Venture to form Euromar. The Joint Venture provides our joint venture partners the option to convert all or part of their equity interests in Euromar into common shares of Euroseas at a price to be based on the comparable values of Euromar and Euroseas at the time of exercise, with such conversion happening at not less than the net asset value of each entity. Depending on the value of each entity at the time of exercise of the conversion, it is possible that our joint venture partners will be able to convert their equity interests in Euromar into a majority of our common shares. On January 27, 2014 we entered into an agreement to sell 25,000 shares of our Series B Preferred Shares to a fund managed by TCP and 5,700 shares to Preferred Friends Investment Company Inc., an affiliate of the Company. The Series B Preferred Shares are convertible into common shares. In addition, on March 11, 2014 we entered into an agreement to sell 11,164,868 shares of its common stock shares in a private placement to 12 West Capital Fund LP and 12 West Capital Offshore Fund LP, two funds for which 12 West Capital Management LP is the investment manager. Pursuant to registration rights agreement between us and TCP and 12 West Capital Management LP, we filed a registration statement registering for resale all of the common shares owned by them (in case of the Series B Preferred Shares, the common shares issuable upon conversion of the Series B Preferred Shares), which has resulted in these shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act if such shares are sold under the registration statement. Sales of a substantial number of any of the shares of common stock mentioned above may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Issuance of preferred stock may adversely affect the voting power of our shareholders and have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In 2014, our Board approved the issue of 30,700 shares of our Series B Preferred Shares and may decide in the future to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions with respect to, among other things, dividends, conversion, voting, redemption, liquidation and the number of shares constituting any series subject to prior shareholders' approval. If our Board determines to issue preferred shares, such issuance may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that shareholders may consider favorable. The issuance of preferred shares with voting and conversion rights may also adversely affect the voting power of the holders of common shares. This could substantially impede the ability of public shareholders to benefit from a change in control and, as a result, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and shareholders' ability to realize any potential change of control premium. 36 Our Series B Preferred Shares are senior obligations of ours and rank prior to our common stock with respect to dividends, distributions and payments upon liquidation, which could have an adverse effect on the value of our common stock. The rights of the holders of our Series B Preferred Shares rank senior to the obligations to holders of our common shares. Upon our liquidation, the holders of Series B Preferred Shares will be entitled to receive a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share, plus all accrued but unpaid dividends, prior and in preference to any distribution to the holders of any other class of our equity securities, including our common shares. The existence of the Series B Preferred Shares could have an adverse effect on the value of our common shares. Because the Republic of the Marshall Islands, where we are incorporated, does not have a well-developed body of corporate law, shareholders may have fewer rights and protections than under typical state law in the United States, such as Delaware, and shareholders may have difficulty in protecting their interests with regard to actions taken by our Board of Directors. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws, as amended, and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, or the BCA. The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Republic of the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the law of the Republic of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain U.S. jurisdictions. Stockholder rights may differ as well. For example, under Marshall Islands law, a copy of the notice of any meeting of the shareholders must be given not less than 15 days before the meeting, whereas in Delaware such notice must be given not less than 10 days before the meeting. Therefore, if immediate shareholder action is required, a meeting may not be able to be convened as quickly as it can be convened under Delaware law. Also, under Marshall Islands law, any action required to be taken by a meeting of shareholders may only be taken without a meeting if consent is in writing and is signed by all of the shareholders entitled to vote, whereas under Delaware law action may be taken by consent if approved by the number of shareholders that would be required to approve such action at a meeting. Therefore, under Marshall Islands law, it may be more difficult for a company to take certain actions without a meeting even if a majority of the shareholders approve of such action. While the BCA does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or judicial case law, of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. 