Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors that could adversely affect the Company’s ability to obtain favorable results and maintain or increase stockholder value include, among other things: Risks Related to our Business and Operations • The Company is a development stage company with no operating history and, accordingly, there is no basis on which to evaluate the Company’s ability to achieve its business objective. The Company is a development stage company with no operating results to date. Since the Company does not have an operating history, there is no basis upon which to evaluate the Company’s ability to achieve its business objective, which is to effect a Business Combination. The Company will not generate any revenue until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a Business Combination. • If third parties bring claims against the Company, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per-share liquidation price received by stockholders will be less than the amounts currently held in trust. The Company’s placing of funds in the Trust Account may not protect those funds from third party claims against the Company. Although the Company will seek to have all vendors and other entities the Company engages, and all prospective target acquisitions the Company negotiates with, execute agreements with the Company waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the Trust Account for the benefit of the Company’s public stockholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements. Nor is there any guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with the Company and will not seek recourse against the Trust Account. Accordingly, the proceeds held in the Trust Account could be subject to claims which could take priority over those of the Company’s public stockholders. The Company cannot provide assurance that the per-share distribution from the Trust Account will not be less than amounts currently 15 held in the trust, due to such claims. If the Company liquidates before the completion of a Business Combination and distributes the proceeds held in trust to its public stockholders, the Company’s corporate stockholder has agreed that it will be liable to ensure that the proceeds in the Trust Account are not reduced by the claims of target acquisitions or vendors or other entities that are owed money by the Company for services rendered or contracted for or products sold to the Company. However, the Company cannot provide assurance that they will be able to satisfy those obligations. • If the net proceeds that the Company raised in its initial public offering not being placed in trust are insufficient to allow the Company to operate for at least 24 months, the Company may not be able to complete a Business Combination. The Company has used a portion of the funds not being placed in trust to pay due diligence costs in connection with a potential Business Combination and to pay fees to consultants to assist the Company with its search for a target acquisition. The Company has accrued costs in connection with a potential Business Combination which exceed the funds not placed in trust. The Company’s corporate stockholder has paid these costs with the expectation that, if a Business Combination is completed, the Company’s corporate stockholder will be reimbursed. However, the Company cannot provide assurance that the Company’s corporate stockholder will continue to satisfy these obligations. • The Company’s ability to successfully effect a Business Combination and to be successful thereafter will be totally dependent upon the efforts of the Company’s key personnel certain of who will not be employees of the Company’s and others who may not continue with the Company following a Business Combination. The Company’s ability to successfully effect a Business Combination is dependent upon the efforts of its key personnel. The Company’s key personnel, other than its executive officers, will be various employees of the Company’s corporate stockholder who the Company anticipates it will have access to on an as needed basis, although there are no assurances that any such personnel will be able to devote either sufficient time, effort or attention to the Company when the Company needs it. None of the Company’s key personnel, including Mark Rose, the Company’s chief executive officer and secretary, Richard Pehlke, the Company’s chief financial officer, and Mark Chrisman, a member of the Company’s Investment Committee, have entered into employment or consultant agreements with the Company. Upon the consummation of GBE’s merger with NNN Realty Advisors, Inc., the chairman of the board, Mr. C. Michael Kojaian, will assume the duties of chief executive officer of the Company, replacing Mr. Mark E. Rose in that capacity. Further, although the Company presently anticipates that Mr. Pehlke and Mr. Chrisman will remain associated in senior management, advisory or other positions with the Company following a Business Combination, some or all of the management associated with a target acquisition may also remain in place. As such, other than Mr. Pehlke and Mr. Chrisman, certain of the Company’s key personnel may not continue to provide services to the Company, including those individuals who are currently employees of the Company’s corporate stockholder, after the consummation of a Business Combination if the Company is unable to negotiate employment or consulting agreements with them in connection with or subsequent to the Business Combination, the terms of which would be determined at such time between the respective parties. Such negotiations would take place simultaneously with the negotiation of the Business Combination and could provide for such individuals to receive compensation in the form of cash payments and/or the Company’s securities for services they would render to the Company after the consummation of the Business Combination. While the personal and financial interests of such individuals may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target acquisition, the ability of such individuals to remain with the Company after the consummation of a Business Combination will not be the determining factor in the Company’s decision as to whether or not the Company will proceed with any potential Business Combination. While the Company intends to closely scrutinize any individuals the Company engages after a Business Combination, the Company cannot provide assurance that its assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company which could cause the Company to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such requirements. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various operational issues which may adversely affect the Company’s operations. • The Company has entered into a long term brokerage services agreement, a long term facilities management agreement and a long term project management agreement with Grubb & Ellis, the Company’s corporate stockholder, and due to the fact that all of the Company’s current officers are employed by the Company’s corporate stockholder and certain of the Company’s directors also serve on the board of directors of the Company’s corporate stockholder, a conflict of interest may arise in determining whether a particular target acquisition is appropriate for a Business 16 Combination. The Company has entered into a long term brokerage services agreement, a long term facilities management agreement and a long term project management agreement with its corporate stockholder, Grubb & Ellis. Pursuant to these agreements, the Company’s corporate stockholder will serve as the Company’s exclusive agent with respect to commercial real estate brokerage and facilities management, and will perform project management services at the Company’s request. As a result, the Company’s corporate stockholder will stand to earn substantial fees and revenues in accordance with the terms and conditions of these agreements. The discretion of the Company’s officers, all of whom are also officers of the Company’s corporate stockholder, and the discretion of certain of the Company’s directors who are also directors of the Company’s corporate stockholder, in identifying and selecting a suitable target acquisition may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular Business Combination are appropriate and in the Company’s stockholders’ best interest. In addition, the Company’s corporate stockholder, as a commercial real estate broker, has relationships with a significant number of clients pursuant to which they would be expected to provide certain business opportunities that could be appropriate for presentation to the Company. The Company does not have preferential rights to be presented with any such opportunities. Accordingly, although the Company’s corporate stockholder is the Company’s exclusive agent with respect to commercial real estate brokerage and facilities management, it provides such services to the Company on a non-exclusive basis. • The Company’s officers, directors and advisors will allocate some portion of their time to other businesses thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to the Company’s affairs. This conflict of interest could have a negative impact on the Company’s ability to consummate a Business Combination. The Company’s officers, directors and advisors are not required to commit their full time to the Company’s affairs, which could create a conflict of interest when allocating their time between the Company’s operations and their other commitments. The Company does not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a Business Combination. All of the Company’s executive officers and advisors are currently employed by the Company’s corporate stockholder and are not obligated to devote any specific number of hours to the Company’s affairs. If the Company’s corporate stockholder requires them to devote more substantial amounts of time to its business and affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to the Company’s affairs and could have a negative impact on the Company’s ability to consummate a Business Combination. The Company cannot provide assurance that these conflicts will be resolved in the Company’s favor. • The Company’s officers, directors, advisors and their affiliates currently are, and may in the future become affiliated with additional entities that are, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by the Company and accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. None of the Company’s officers, directors, advisors or their affiliates has been or currently is a principal of, or affiliated or associated with, a blank check company. However, all of the Company’s officers, directors and advisors currently are, and may in the future become affiliated with additional entities, including other “blank check” companies or real estate entities that are, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by the Company. In particular, Mr. Rose, Mr. Pehlke and Mr. Chrisman are the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President of Acquisitions, respectively, of Grubb & Ellis. In such capacities, Mr. Rose, Mr. Pehlke and Mr. Chrisman have a fiduciary obligation to cause Grubb & Ellis to continue to present real estate leasing and acquisition opportunities that may be suitable for the Company to current and future clients of Grubb & Ellis. Additionally, the Company’s officers, directors and advisors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to the Company and the other entities to which they owe fiduciary duties. Accordingly, Mr. Rose, Mr. Pehlke and Mr. Chrisman may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. The Company cannot provide assurance that any of these conflicts will be resolved in the Company’s favor. • The real estate market in general is subject to a number of economic conditions that are not within our control. The commercial real estate market is subject to various risks and fluctuations and cycles in value and demand for real estate in local markets, many of which are beyond our control. Changes in one or more of these factors could either favorably or unfavorably impact the volume of transactions and prices or lease terms for real estate. Consequently, our revenue and our corresponding cash flow and financial condition could be materially and adversely impacted by changes in these factors. These factors include: • adverse changes in international, national, regional or local economic, demographic and market conditions; 17 • adverse changes in financial conditions of buyers, sellers and tenants of properties; • competition from other real estate investors with significant capital; • reductions in the level of demand for commercial space, and changes in the relative popularity of properties; • fluctuations in interest rates, which could adversely effect our ability, or the ability of buyers and tenants of properties, to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all; • unanticipated increases in operating expenses, including, without limitation, insurance costs, labor costs, construction cost, energy prices and costs of compliance with laws, regulations and governmental policies; • unanticipated additional real estate developments which increase overall market supply and competition; • changes in, and changes in enforcement of, laws, regulations and governmental policies, including, without limitation, health, safety, environmental, zoning and tax laws and governmental fiscal policies, and changes in the related costs of compliance with laws, regulations and governmental polices; and • civil unrest, acts of God, including earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters and acts of war or terrorism, including the consequences of terrorist acts such as those that occurred on September 11, 2001, which may result in uninsured losses. • Major unexpected mechanical or building system failures may result in adverse changes in the performance of our properties and harm our financial condition. Major unexpected mechanical or building system failures may result in the disruption of building operations resulting in loss of rents as well as require us to make significant, unbudgeted capital expenditures. Such expenditures and loss of rents could reduce our cash flows and funds available for future dividends. • Increasing competition for the acquisition of real estate may impede our ability to make future acquisitions, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The commercial real estate industry is highly competitive on an international, regional and local level. We will face competition from REITs, institutional pension funds, and other public and private real estate companies and private real estate investors. Although many of our competitors are local or regional firms that are substantially smaller than we are as a whole, some of these firms are substantially larger than we are in the local or regional area in which we actually compete with these firms. These competitors may prevent us from acquiring desirable properties or increase the price we must pay for real estate. Our competitors may have greater resources than we do, and may be willing to pay more or may have a more compatible operating philosophy with our acquisition targets. In particular, REITs may enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, a lower cost of capital and enhanced operating efficiencies. Our competitors may also adopt transaction structures similar to ours, which would decrease our competitive advantage in offering flexible transaction terms. In addition, the number of entities and the amount of funds competing for suitable investment properties may increase, resulting in increased demand and increased prices paid for such properties. If we pay higher prices for properties, our profitability may decrease and we may experience a lower return on our investments. Increased competition for properties may also preclude us from acquiring those properties that would generate the most attractive returns to us. • Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties and harm our financial condition. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more properties or investments in our portfolio in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions may be limited. In particular, these risks could arise from weakness in or even the lack of an established market for a property, changes in the financial condition or prospects of prospective purchasers, changes in national or international economic conditions, and changes in laws, regulations or fiscal policies of jurisdictions in which the property is located. We may be unable to realize our investment objectives by sale, other disposition or to refinance at attractive prices within any given period of time or may otherwise be unable to complete any exit strategy. • Increasing interest rates could have a negative impact our real estate investments in multiple ways. An environment of rising interest rates creates the risk of incurring increased interest rate payments on any current 18 financings, such as the Wachovia Mortgage Loans, new financings or re-financings that we may pursue or higher interest rates if an interest rate adjustment occurs as a term of an existing loan on any of the properties. Rising interest rates also may be accompanied by weakening economic conditions, which will typically lead to constrained business expansion by companies. Such a condition may have a direct impact on the commercial real estate market. Businesses that would otherwise accommodate their growth by leasing space in commercial buildings may no longer pursue an expansion strategy. In addition, higher interest rates may create financial pressures on existing tenants causing them to vacate or reduce the amount of space they occupy or cause a tenant to delay paying its rent or cause them to default on their rental payments. Under such a situation a tenant may ask for rent forgiveness. In extreme situations a tenant may decide to declare bankruptcy. Reduced demand for space and increasing vacancy resulting from increasing interest rates may affect our ability to achieve our leasing objectives in terms of occupancy, rental rates and leasing concessions. When tenant demand for leased space falls, rental rates may follow suit. Weakening market conditions can trigger higher tenant concessions that may become necessary to provide a financial inducement to attract new tenants to lease vacant space in the properties and to entice existing tenants to renew their leases. These incentives usually take the form of free rent and tenant improvement allowances of a higher amount than we had otherwise planned on providing. Under each of the scenarios described above there could be a reduction in the amount of cash flow available to fund operations, improve the properties or to distribute as dividends to stockholders. If the conditions become too severe, there is always the risk that we may not be able to meet debt service payments resulting in the lender initiating foreclosure proceedings on the loan. When the property has been offered as collateral for the loan the lender would acquire title to the property as a result of the foreclosure and we would lose our ownership interests and rights in the property. A rising interest rate environment combined with deteriorating real estate market fundamentals could also affect investor demand for real estate and ultimately the value of real estate. Higher interest rates affect our ability to underwrite transactions and may impair our ability to meet future targeted returns. When debt becomes more costly, buyers relying on financing to fund their acquisitions will either leave the market or they will be forced to submit offers at lower prices, making them less competitive. The absence of this group of buyers may reduce the competition among buyers, which may affect the price the remaining active buyers will bid for a property. Deteriorating market fundamentals may cause buyers to modify how they underwrite their purchases. If they are more cautious in their interpretation of market trends, the value of our properties when we sell them may be less than what we paid for them. In addition to the risk of a loss on the sale of a property there is the further risk of the value being insufficient to repay the principal on any loans that may be outstanding. • Rising operating expenses and decrease in rents at our properties could reduce our cash flow and funds available for future dividends. Our properties will likely be subject to operating risks common to real estate in general, any or all of which may negatively affect us. In addition, the Properties are subject to certain floating operating expenses for market based purchases (such as, electricity, gas and other utilities) that have short term fluctuation risk. Furthermore, if any property is not fully occupied or if rents are being paid in an amount that is insufficient to cover operating expenses, we could be required to expend funds for that property’s operating expenses. If our competitors offer space at rental rates below market rates, or below the rental rates we charge our tenants, we may lose existing or potential tenants and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we charge in order to retain tenants when our tenants’ leases expire. Our properties could also be subject to increases in real estate and other tax rates, utility costs, operating expenses, insurance costs, repairs and maintenance and administrative expenses. Increases in operating expenses and loss of rents could reduce our cash flows and funds available for future dividends. • Our ability to pay dividends is limited and we may be unable to pay future dividends. GERA has not paid cash dividends in the past and does not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. The holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends when and if declared by our board of directors out of funds available therefore. As part of our consideration to pay cash dividends, we intend to retain adequate funds from future earnings to support the development and growth of our business. Furthermore, the payment of future dividends is at 19 the discretion of GERA’s board of directors and is subject to a number of factors, including results of operations, general business conditions, growth, financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by GERA’s board of directors. Such factors may also prevent GERA from issuing dividends in the foreseeable future. • Environmental regulation and issues, over certain of which we may have no control, may adversely impact our business. Federal, state and local laws and regulations impose environmental controls, disclosure rules and zoning restrictions which directly impact the management, development, use, and/or sale of real estate. Such laws and regulations tend to discourage sales and leasing activities and mortgage lending with respect to some properties, and may therefore adversely affect us specifically, and the real estate industry in general. Failure by us to uncover and adequately protect against environmental issues in connection with a target acquisition may subject us to liability as buyer of such property or asset. Environmental laws and regulations impose liability on current or previous real property owners or operators for the cost of investigating, cleaning up or removing contamination caused by hazardous or toxic substances at the property. We may be held liable for such costs as a subsequent owner of such property. Liability can be imposed even if the original actions were legal and we had no knowledge of, or were not responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. Further, we may also be held responsible for the entire payment of the liability if we are subject to joint and several liability and the other responsible parties are unable to pay. We may also be liable under common law to third parties for damages and injuries resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the site, including the presence of asbestos containing materials. Insurance for such matters may not be available. Additionally, new or modified environmental regulations could develop in a manner which could adversely affect us. • Our properties may contain or develop harmful mold, which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediating the problem. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Concern about indoor exposure to mold has been increasing as exposure to mold may cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. As a result, the presence of significant mold at any of our properties could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold from the affected property. In addition, the presence of significant mold could expose us to liability from our tenants, employees of our tenants and others if property damage or health concerns arise. • Our properties may contain asbestos which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediating asbestos. Certain laws and regulations govern the removal, encapsulation or disturbance of asbestos containing materials (or ACMs), when those materials are in poor condition or in the event of building renovation or demolition, impose certain worker protection and notification requirements and govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. These laws may also impose liability for a release of ACMs and may enable third parties to seek recovery against us for personal injury associated with ACMs. There may be ACMs at certain of the properties we acquire. • Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and fire, safety and other regulations may require us to make substantial unintended expenditures. Any properties we acquire will be required to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or the ADA. The ADA has separate compliance requirements for “public accommodations” and “commercial facilities,” but generally requires that buildings be made accessible to people with disabilities. Compliance with the ADA requirements could require removal of access barriers and non-compliance could result in imposition of fines by the U.S. government or an award of damages to private litigants, or both. While the tenants to whom we lease properties will be obligated by law to comply with the ADA provisions, and the tenants under our net leases will typically be obligated to cover costs associated with compliance, if required changes involve greater expenditures than anticipated, or if the changes must be made on a more accelerated basis than anticipated, the ability of such tenants to cover costs could be adversely affected and we could be required to expend our own funds to comply with the provisions of the ADA, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we will be required to operate our properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental agencies and bodies and become applicable to our properties. We may be required to make substantial capital expenditures to comply with those requirements. 20 • Failure of our tenants to pay rent could seriously harm our operating results and financial condition. We will rely on rental payments from tenants of a target acquisition as a source of cash. At any time, any of our tenants may experience a downturn in its business that may weaken its financial condition. As a result, a tenant may delay lease commencement, fail to make rental payments when due, decline to extend a lease upon its expiration, become insolvent or declare bankruptcy. Any tenant bankruptcy, insolvency, or failure to make rental payments when due could result in the termination of the tenant’s lease and material losses to our company. A default by a large tenant on one of these properties could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In particular, if any of our significant tenants becomes insolvent, suffers a downturn in its business and decides not to renew its lease or vacates a property and prevents us from leasing that property by continuing to pay base rent for the balance of the term, it may seriously harm our business. Failure on the part of a tenant to comply with the terms of a lease may give us the right to terminate the lease, repossess the applicable property and enforce the payment obligations under the lease; however, we would be required to find another tenant. We cannot assure you that we would be able to find another tenant without incurring substantial costs, or at all, or that, if another tenant was found, we would be able to enter into a new lease on favorable terms. • The bankruptcy or insolvency of our tenants under their leases could seriously harm our operating results and financial condition. Any bankruptcy filings by or relating to one of our tenants could bar us from collecting pre-bankruptcy debts from that tenant or its property. A tenant bankruptcy could delay our efforts to collect past due balances under the relevant leases, and could ultimately preclude full collection of these sums. If a lease is assumed by the tenant in bankruptcy, all pre-bankruptcy balances due under the lease must be paid to us in full. However, if a lease is rejected by a tenant in bankruptcy, we would have only a general unsecured claim for damages. Any unsecured claim we hold against a bankrupt entity may be paid only to the extent that funds are available and only in the same percentage as is paid to all other holders of unsecured claims. We may recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims, which would harm our operating results and financial condition. • Increases in our property taxes could adversely affect our cash flow and financial condition. Each of our properties will be subject to real and personal property taxes. These taxes on our properties may increase as tax rates change and as the properties are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities. Many U.S. states and localities are considering increases in their income and/or property tax rates (or increases in the assessments of real estate) to cover revenue shortfalls. If property taxes increase, it may adversely affect our cash flow and financial condition. • Uninsured and underinsured losses may adversely affect operations. We, or in certain instances, tenants of our properties, are likely to carry commercial general liability, fire and extended coverage insurance with respect to our properties. We plan to obtain coverage that has policy specifications and insured limits that we believe are customarily carried for similar properties. However, certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes and floods, may be either uninsurable or not economically insurable. Should a property sustain damage, we may incur losses due to insurance deductibles, to co-payments on insured losses or to uninsured losses. In the event of a substantial property loss, the insurance coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement cost of the property. In the event of an uninsured loss, we could lose some or all of our capital investment, cash flow and anticipated profits related to one or more properties. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations, and other factors also might make it not feasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. Under such circumstances, the insurance proceeds we receive might not be adequate to restore our economic position with respect to such property. In the event of an underinsured loss with respect to a property relating to a title defect, the insurance proceeds we receive might not be adequate to restore our economic position with respect to such property. In the event of a significant loss at one or more of the properties covered by the blanket policy, the remaining insurance under our policy, if any, could be insufficient to adequately insure our remaining properties. In this event, securing additional insurance, if possible, could be significantly more expensive than our current policy. • If we are unable to promptly relet or renew leases as they expire, our cash flow and ability to service our indebtedness, may be adversely affected. We are subject to the risks that upon expiration of leases for space located in our buildings (a) such leases may not be renewed, (b) such space may not be relet or (c) the terms of renewal or reletting, taking into account the cost of required renovations, may be less favorable than the current lease terms. If we are unable to promptly relet, or renew the leases for, a substantial portion of the space located in our buildings, or if the 21 rental rates upon such renewal or reletting are significantly lower than expected rental rates, or if our reserves for these purposes prove inadequate, our cash flow and ability to service our indebtedness may be adversely affected. Risks Related to the Acquisition • Our working capital will be reduced if GERA stockholders exercise their right to convert their shares into cash. This would reduce our cash reserve after the acquisition. Pursuant to our certificate of incorporation, holders of shares issued in the IPO may vote against the acquisition and demand that we convert their shares, calculated as of two business days prior to the anticipated consummation of the acquisition, into a pro rata share of the trust account where a substantial portion of the net proceeds of the IPO are held. We will not consummate the acquisition if holders of 4,791,667 or more shares of common stock issued in the IPO exercise these conversion rights. To the extent the acquisition is consummated and holders have demanded to so convert their shares, there will be a corresponding reduction in the amount of funds available to us following the acquisition. As of August 22, 2007, assuming the Properties Acquisition Proposal is approved, the maximum amount of funds that could be disbursed to our stockholders upon the exercise of their conversion rights is approximately $28.9 million, or approximately 20% of the funds held in the trust account. Any payment upon exercise of conversion rights will reduce our cash after the acquisition, which may limit our ability to implement our business plan. • If we do not consummate the acquisition and are forced to dissolve and liquidate, payments from the trust account to our public stockholders may be delayed. In the event that the LLC Acquisition Agreement is not consummated, and GERA does not enter into a letter of intent, agreement in principle or a definitive agreement to consummate another Business Combination or acquisition of assets by September 3, 2007, or executes such an agreement but the contemplated Business Combination is not consummated by March 3, 2008, GERA must be liquidated. We anticipate that, if we are forced to liquidate, the following will occur: • our board of directors will convene and adopt a specific plan of dissolution and liquidation, which it will then vote to recommend to our stockholders; at such time it will also cause to be prepared a preliminary proxy statement setting out such plan of dissolution and liquidation as well as the board’s recommendation of such plan; • we will promptly file our preliminary proxy statement with the SEC; • if the SEC does not review the preliminary proxy statement, then, 10 days following the filing of such preliminary proxy statement, we will mail the definitive proxy statement to our stockholders, and, 20 days following the mailing of such definitive proxy statement, we will convene a special meeting of our stockholders, at which they will vote on our plan of dissolution and liquidation; and • if the SEC does review the preliminary proxy statement, we currently estimate that we will receive their comments 30 days after the filing of such proxy statement. We would then mail the definite proxy statement to our stockholders following the conclusion of the comment and review process (the length of which we cannot predict with any certainty, and which may be substantial) and we will convene a special meeting of our stockholders at which they will vote on our plan of dissolution and liquidation. We expect that all costs associated with the implementation and completion of our plan of dissolution and liquidation will be funded by any remaining net assets not held in the trust account, although we cannot assure you that there will be sufficient funds for such purpose. We will not liquidate the trust account unless and until our stockholders approve our plan of dissolution and liquidation. Accordingly, the foregoing procedures may result in substantial delays in our liquidation and the distribution to our public stockholders of the funds in our trust account and any remaining net assets as part of our plan of dissolution and liquidation. • Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. If we are unable to complete the acquisition of Property Acquisition, we will dissolve and liquidate pursuant to Section 275 of the DGCL. Under Sections 280 through 282 of the DGCL, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in dissolution. Pursuant to Section 280, if the corporation complies with certain procedures intended to ensure that it makes reasonable provisions for all claims against it, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be 22 brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of a stockholder with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. Although we will seek stockholder approval to liquidate the trust account to our public stockholders as part of our plan of dissolution and liquidation, we will seek to conclude this process as soon as possible and as a result do not intend to comply with those procedures. Because we will not be complying with those procedures, we are required, pursuant to Section 281 of the DGCL, to adopt a plan that will provide for our payment, based on facts known to us at such time, of (i) all existing claims, (ii) all pending claims and (iii) all claims that may be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years. Accordingly, we would be required to provide for any creditors known to us at that time or those that we believe could be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years prior to distributing the funds held in the trust to stockholders. We cannot assure you that we will properly assess all claims that may be potentially brought against us. As such, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them in dissolution (but no more) and any liability of our stockholders may extend well beyond the third anniversary of such dissolution. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our stockholders amounts owed to them by us. Additionally, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us that is not dismissed, any distributions received by stockholders in our dissolution might be viewed under applicable debtor/creditor and/or bankruptcy laws as either a “preferential transfer” or a “fraudulent conveyance.” As a result, a bankruptcy court could seek to recover all amounts received by our stockholders in our dissolution. Furthermore, because we intend to distribute the proceeds held in the trust account to our public stockholders as soon as possible after our dissolution, this may be viewed or interpreted as giving preference to our public stockholders over any potential creditors with respect to access to or distributions from our assets. Furthermore, our board of directors may be viewed as having breached their fiduciary duties to our creditors and/or may have acted in bad faith, and thereby exposing itself and our company to claims of punitive damages, by paying public stockholders from the trust account prior to addressing the claims of creditors and/or complying with certain provisions of the DGCL with respect to our dissolution and liquidation. We cannot assure you that claims will not be brought against us for these reasons. • Certain environmental conditions exist at the Danbury Property that will require remediation in accordance with applicable state law. Environmental assessments conducted at the Danbury Property revealed that certain additional remediation will be required in connection with two underground heating oil storage tanks removed from the property in 1992. The Danbury Property is subject to the Connecticut Transfer Act (the “Transfer Act”) which requires that environmental conditions at the property be assessed and remediated in connection with a sales transaction. Buildings Co., the sellers of the Danbury Property, are responsible for compliance with the Transfer Act and have agreed to perform and pay all costs associated with completing, in accordance with the requirements of the Transfer Act, all required assessments and remediation of any environmental conditions (including conditions related to the removal of the underground storage tanks) existing at the property prior to closing identified by such assessments. In addition, to secure the performance of its obligations, at the closing, Buildings Co. deposited $2,000,000 in an escrow account which will remain in place until the completion of the Transfer Act requirements, and Buildings Co., together with Buckeye Casa Grande, L.P. and Bridgewater Investments, Inc. have agreed to indemnify Property Acquisition with respect to substantially all liabilities which may be incurred under the Transfer Act in connection with the remediation of existing hazardous substances at the Danbury Property or caused by Building Co.’s remediation activities. A Phase I Environmental Site Assessment revealed that in addition to conditions related to the removal of the underground storage tanks, additional investigation may be required with respect to potential environmental impacts from visible staining and leakage of hydraulic oil in the area of a trash compactor and loading docks adjacent to a trench drain, and visible staining within the chauffer garage adjacent to a storm drain. The remediation of the conditions related to the removal of the underground storage tanks and the remaining assessment work will be completed at the expense of Buildings Co. If Buildings Co. fails to perform its obligations under the Transfer Act and Buckeye Casa Grande, L.P. and Bridgewater Investments, Inc. do not satisfy their indemnification obligations, Property Acquisition may incur such liability as the current owner of the Danbury Property. Furthermore, any subsequent transfer of the Danbury Property prior to the completion of the Transfer Act requirements will also be subject to the requirements of the Transfer Act. Transfer of the Danbury Property subsequent to completion of the 23 Transfer Act requirements may also be subject to the Transfer Act if certain hazardous materials activities occur at the Danbury Property thereafter. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 