Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related To Our Business We Have Recently Opened New Branches And Expect To Open Additional New Branches In The Near Future. Opening New Branches Reduces Our Short-Term Profitability Due To One-time Fixed Expenses Coupled With Low Levels Of Income Earned By The Branches Until Their Customer Bases Are Built. We opened two new branches in Orchard Park and East Amherst, New York in 2003 and one more in Hamburg, New York in December 2005. We intend to continue to expand through de novo branching. The expense associated with building and staffing new branches will significantly increase our noninterest expense, with compensation and occupancy costs constituting the largest amount of increased costs. Losses are expected from the proposed new branch for some time as the expenses associated with it are largely fixed and is typically greater than the income earned as a branch builds up its customer base. Our management has projected that it will take approximately 36 to 48 months for the Hamburg branch to become profitable. The branch we opened in East Amherst in 2003 is not yet profitable. We expect it to be profitable by the end of 2006. All of our other full-service branches are individually profitable. There can be no assurance that our branch expansion strategy will result in increased earnings, or that it will result in increased earnings within a reasonable period of time. We expect that the success of our branching strategy will depend largely on the ability of our staff to market the deposit and loan products offered by us. Depending upon locating acceptable sites, we anticipate opening one or two branches in each of the next several years. Our Loan Portfolio Includes Loans With A Higher Risk Of Loss. We originate commercial mortgage loans, commercial loans, consumer loans, and residential mortgage loans primarily within our market area. Commercial mortgage, commercial, and consumer loans may expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, commercial real estate and commercial business loans may also involve relatively large loan balances to individual borrowers or groups of borrowers. These loans also have greater credit risk than residential real estate for the following reasons: • Commercial Mortgage Loans. Repayment is dependent upon income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. • Commercial Loans. Repayment is generally dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower’s business. • Consumer Loans. Consumer loans (such as personal lines of credit) may or may not be collateralized with assets that provide an adequate source of payment of the loan due to depreciation, damage, or loss. Any downturn in the real estate market or our local economy could adversely affect the value of the properties securing the loans or revenues from the borrower’s business thereby increasing the risk of non-performing loans. At this time, however, there is no downturn in the local economy or real estate market and we are not aware of any adverse effects in property values or business declines as a result of the local economy. 39 Table of Contents If Our Allowance For Loan Losses Is Not Sufficient To Cover Actual Loan Losses, Our Earnings Could Decrease. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. We therefore may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Material additions to our allowance for loan losses also would materially decrease our net income, and the charge-off of loans may cause us to increase the allowance. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. We rely on our loan quality reviews, our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors, in determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. The high percentage of traditional real estate loans in our loan portfolio has been one of the more significant factors we have taken into account in evaluating our allowance for loan losses and provision for loan losses. If we were to further increase the amount of loans in our portfolio other than traditional real estate loans, we may decide to make increased provisions for loan losses. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We believe that the current amount of allowance for loan losses is sufficient to absorb inherent losses in our loan portfolio. Low Demand For Real Estate Loans May Lower Our Profitability. Making loans secured by real estate, including one-to-four family and commercial real estate, is our primary business and primary source of revenue. If customer demand for real estate loans decreases, our profits may decrease because our alternative investments, primarily securities, generally earn less income than real estate loans. Customer demand for loans secured by real estate could be reduced due to weaker economic conditions, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or an increase in interest rates. For example, customer demand for loans secured by real estate has decreased in our market area as a result of interest rate increases during 2004 and 2005. We Depend On Our Executive Officers And Key Personnel To Implement Our Business Strategy And Could Be Harmed By The Loss Of Their Services. We believe that our growth and future success will depend in large part upon the skills of our management team. The competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry is intense, and the loss of our key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing key personnel or attract additional qualified personnel. Although we have an employment agreement with our President and Chief Executive Officer that contains a non-compete provision, the loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers and key personnel could impair our ability to continue to develop our business strategy. The Implementation Of Stock-Based Benefits Will Increase Our Future Compensation Expense And Reduce Our Earnings, And May Dilute Your Ownership Interest In Lake Shore Bancorp. We intend to adopt a stock option plan that will provide for grants to eligible officers, directors and employees of options to purchase common stock of up to 4.90% of the shares of common stock outstanding after the offering. We also intend to adopt a management recognition plan that will provide for awards of common stock to eligible officers, directors and employees of up to 1.96% of the shares of common stock outstanding after the offering. We will fund these plans through either open market purchases, if permitted, or from the issuance of authorized but unissued shares. These plans will increase our future costs of compensating our officers and directors, thereby reducing our earnings. In addition, 40 Table of Contents stockholders will experience a 1.9% reduction or dilution in ownership interest in the event newly-issued shares are used to fund restricted stock awards and a 4.7% reduction or dilution in ownership interest in the event newly-issued shares are used to fund the stock options. After Our Initial Public Offering, Our Return On Equity Will Be Low Compared To Other Companies. This Could Hurt The Price Of Your Common Stock. We will not be able to immediately deploy all of the new capital generated from our initial public offering into high-yielding earning assets, and due to the difficult economic environment in our market area, deployment of the new capital may take a significant amount of time. For example, due to intense competition and market rates, our borrower demand may be limited. Our ability to leverage our new capital profitably will be significantly affected by industry competition for loans and deposits. Initially, we intend to invest the net proceeds in short-term investments and mortgage-backed securities, which generally have lower yields than loans. This will reduce our return on average equity to a level that will be lower than our historical ratios. Our Ability To Grow May Be Limited If We Cannot Make Acquisitions. In an effort to fully deploy the capital we raise in the offering, we intend to seek to expand our banking franchise, internally and by acquiring other financial institutions or branches and other financial services providers. However, we have no specific plans for expansion or acquisitions at this time. Our ability to grow through selective acquisitions of other financial institutions or branches will depend on successfully identifying, acquiring and integrating those institutions or branches. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate internal growth or identify attractive acquisition candidates, make acquisitions on favorable terms or successfully integrate any acquired institutions or branches. Risks Related To The Banking Industry Competition In Our Primary Market Area May Reduce Our Ability To Attract And Retain Deposits And Originate Loans. We operate in a competitive market for both attracting deposits, which is our primary source of funds, and originating loans. Historically, our most direct competition for savings deposits has come from credit unions, community banks, large commercial banks and thrift institutions in our primary market area. Particularly in times of extremely low or extremely high interest rates, we have faced additional significant competition for investors’ funds from brokerage firms and other firms’ short-term money market securities and corporate and government securities. Our competition for loans comes principally from mortgage brokers, commercial banks, other thrift institutions, and insurance companies. Competition for loan originations and deposits may limit our future growth and earnings prospects. Changes In Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect Our Results Of Operations And Financial Condition. Our results of operations and financial condition are significantly affected by changes in interest rates. Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on our interest-bearing liabilities. Increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. We also are subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and securities. Our earnings may be adversely impacted by an increase in interest rates because the majority of our interest-earning assets are long-term, fixed rate mortgage-related assets that will not reprice as long-term interest rates increase while a majority of our interest-bearing liabilities are expected to reprice as 41 Table of Contents interest rates increase. Therefore, in an increasing interest rate environment, our cost of funds is expected to increase more rapidly than the yields earned on our loan portfolio and securities portfolio. An increasing rate environment is expected to cause a narrowing of our net interest rate spread and a decrease in our net interest income. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 