D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We are exposed to risks related to general economic conditions in domestic and international markets. The uncertainty arising out of domestic and global economic conditions, including the global financial crisis and the related credit crisis, poses a risk to the economies in which we operate. Such uncertainty has impacted demand for our products and services, and may impact our ability to manage normal relationships with our customers, suppliers and creditors. The markets for semiconductor products and video surveillance products significantly depend on consumer spending and available capital and other financial resources for spending. Economic uncertainty exacerbates negative trends in consumer spending and may cause certain customers to delay, cancel, or refrain from placing orders, which may affect our business and operating results. In addition, any tightening of liquidity in China and elsewhere in the world might also negatively influence market recovery. The recent financial turmoil and related credit crisis affecting the financial markets and banking system may significantly restrict our ability to obtain financing in the capital markets or from financial institutions on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, difficulty in obtaining capital and market uncertainty may also prevent some customers from obtaining affordable financing, resulting in lower sales. Customers with liquidity issues may cause us to experience longer turnover days or incur additional bad debt expenses. These conditions may also similarly affect key suppliers, which could affect their ability to deliver parts thereby causing delays in our production. Further, these conditions and uncertainty about future economic conditions make it challenging for us to forecast our operating results, make business decisions, and identify the risks that may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are not able to timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from the uncertain macroeconomic environment, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We may continue to incur net losses in the future. Our financial condition and results of operation have been negatively affected by weakening global economic conditions and intense industry competition in recent years. Our net revenue increased from $59.0 million in 2011 to $71.2 million in 2012, and decreased to $64.5 million in 2013. Our gross profit increased from $20.5 million in 2011 to $26.0 million in 2012, and decreased to $22.4 million in 2013. We incurred a net loss attributable to Vimicro International Corporation of $28.2 million, $0.6 million and $8.4 million in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. We had net cash used by operating activities of $26.8 million in 2011, net cash provided in operating activities of $7.1 million in 2012 and net cash used by operating activities of $14.8 million in 2013. There is no assurance that our revenues and gross profits will continue to increase, or that we will be able to generate net profit in the near future, or at all. Our financial condition and results of operations could also fluctuate significantly due to changes in our product mix and the industry environment. In addition, we may continue to grant options to employees and consultants in the future to retain and recruit key personnel and may therefore continue to incur share-based compensation expenses. 8 Table of Contents The development and ramping-up plan of our video surveillance operations involves risks. We plan to allocate additional resources to the development and ramping-up of our video surveillance operations. In particular, in May, 2013, Vimicro Tianjin completed the construction of a project for the research, development and production of digital high-definition video surveillance products and solutions. We may plan for additional development projects on this parcel of land based on our operational needs. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—B. Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital Expenditures.” We are in the process of applying for the necessary governmental approvals to utilize this facility.There are risks associated with our planned expansion of business into the video surveillance market and the development project, including without limitation, our ability to: · successfully design and develop video surveillance products and solutions that can be applied for commercial production and meet market demands; · effectively sell and distribute our new products and solutions; · respond rapidly and timely to technological and other changes in the industry; · effectively manage the increase in costs and expenses in connection with our expansion into the relevant fields; and · compete effectively against other players in the market. In addition, the loans provided by banks include covenants and restrictions that could limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to market conditions or in meeting our capital needs or that may otherwise restrict our operations or corporate activities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively manage our planned expansion. We may not have, or be able to raise, sufficient capital to service or refinance our indebtedness or to complete the project and our ability to raise additional capital depends on market and regulatory conditions which we cannot control. In addition, the gross margin from our video surveillance business has historically been less than that of our video processor business which could lead to overall lower gross margins as we increasingly rely on our video surveillance business. We may fail to generate revenue, profit or operating cash flow as expected. Furthermore, our efforts to allocate additional resources, managerial or financial, to the video surveillance business may adversely affect our ability to manage and grow our other business operations. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Any changes in government policies on surveillance and safety system installation and operation may cause our revenues and profits to decrease. We depend on state and local government policies mandating and funding surveillance and safety system installation and operation in China. For instance, our video surveillance business benefits from the government’s support of surveillance projects in China which promotes the installation of urban and suburban surveillance and monitoring networks to improve the safety-monitoring and alarm systems in cities. We expect that our video surveillance business will continue to rely on government policies in the foreseeable future. If such policies change, whether due to tightening budgets, shifting policy, or otherwise, initiatives promoting surveillance projects may be abandoned or cut back, and our financial condition and results of operations may suffer material adverse effects. Our video surveillance products are subject to delivery acceptance, testing and approval. We normally supply video surveillance products and services pursuant to agreements with general contractors or government agencies. The successful completion of our obligations under these contracts is often subject to delivery acceptance, satisfactory testing and approval of such products and services. Although we endeavor to satisfy the requirements of each of these contracts to which we are a party, no assurance can be given that the necessary approval of our products and services will be granted on a timely basis or at all, and that we will receive any payments due to us. In some cases, we may depend on others to complete these projects which may also delay payments to us. Any failure to obtain these approvals and payments may have a material adverse effect on our business and future financial performance. We sometimes extend credit to our customers in the video surveillance projects. Failure or delay in collecting trade receivables from these customers could affect our liquidity. We extend credit to some of our customers in the video surveillance projects without requiring collateral in most cases. As a result, our claims for payment would rank as unsecured claims, which would expose us to the credit risks of our customers in the event of their insolvency or bankruptcy. Generally, our customers in the video surveillance projects pay in installments, with a portion of the payment upfront upon signing the sales contracts, a portion of the payment upon receipt of our products but before installation and a portion of the payment after installation and upon satisfaction of our customers. Sometimes, a portion of the payment may not be paid until after a certain period following the installation. 9 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2012 and 2013, accounts receivable due from ASB, a distributor of our video surveillance products, accounted for 48% and 33%, respectively, of our total accounts receivable. Net revenue generated from the same customer accounted for 11% and 7%, respectively, of our total net revenue in the same periods. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers’ financial condition. Our provisions for doubtful accounts amounted to $2.2 million and $2.2 million as of December 31, 2012 and 2013, respectively. Our net working capital requirements could increase significantly if we offer longer payment terms to attract and retain large customers, including customers of our video surveillance products. We may encounter further issues with or material delay in collecting accounts receivable due from our customers, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If our subcontractors fail to perform their contractual obligations, our ability to provide services and products to our customers, as well as our ability to obtain future video surveillance business, may be harmed. We sometimes may enter into contracts with subcontractors who perform a portion of the video surveillance services that we provide to our customers. We may have disputes with our subcontractors, including disputes regarding quality and timeliness of the work performed by those subcontractors. Failure by one or more of our subcontractors to satisfactorily perform the agreed-upon services may materially and adversely impact our ability to fulfill our obligations to our customers, expose us to liability and cause a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future business. If the SVAC standard is not widely adopted, or if the deployment of the SVAC standard in China is slower than we expect, the growth of our video surveillance business will be adversely affected. Reflecting our commitment to the video surveillance business, we are a co-founder and co-developer of the Surveillance Digital Video Audio Coding Standard Working Group, or SVAC Working Group. The goals of the SVAC Working Group are to develop standards for advanced audio video coding and safety systems and improve synchronization among various safety and alarm systems. In December 2010, the Standardization Administration of China released a national standard for SVAC, which was prepared by the SVAC Working Group. The SVAC standard has been approved by the national standardization committee in China and has been applied in industry use starting in May 2011. We have invested substantial time and resources in developing and promoting the SVAC standard. The market for video surveillance products that adopt the SVAC standard is relatively new and its potential is uncertain. Our growth in video surveillance business depends in part upon the timely and broadly deployment of video surveillance products that adopt SVAC standards, which is affected by the extent that SVAC standard is adopted. The deployment of the SVAC standard depends upon many factors, for example: the promotion efforts and the incentives associated with government construction projects to adopt the SVAC standard; end-use customers’ awareness and acceptance of the SVAC standard; any favorable business benefit derived from the SVAC-based products and system applications to the end-use customers; the maturity and the degree of the serialization of the SVAC-based products and system applications; and the number of the suppliers and the suppliers’ capability to provide SVAC products to meet end-users’ demand. In addition, even if the video surveillance market for SVAC projects is fully developed, our success will still depend upon the selection by existing and potential customers of our products for use in their projects. If the SVAC standard is not broadly adopted in a timely manner or our products are not selected by customers, the growth and success of our video surveillance business will be adversely affected. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Due to the nature of our business, we do not have significant amounts of recurring revenues from our existing customers, and we are highly dependent on new business development. Most of our revenues are derived from the installation of video surveillance systems which are generally non-recurring. Our customers are primarily governmental entities and their affiliates such as cities, municipalities and provinces, non-profit organizations and commercial entities, such as airports, customs agencies, banks and theaters. We install video surveillance systems for these customers and generate revenues from the sale of these systems to our customers and, to a lesser extent, from maintenance of these systems for our customers. After we have installed a solution at any particular customer site, we have generated the majority of revenues from that particular customer. We do not expect to generate significant revenues from any existing customer in future years unless that customer has additional installation sites for which our services might be required. Therefore, in order to maintain a level of revenues each year that is at or in excess of the level of revenues we generated in prior years, we must identify and be retained by new customers or work on new projects for existing customers. If our business development, marketing and sales techniques do not result in an equal or greater number of projects of at least comparable size and value for us in a given year compared to the prior year, then we may be unable to increase our revenues and earnings or even sustain current levels in the future. 10 Table of Contents Future government regulations or other standards could have an adverse effect on our operations. Our operations are subject to a variety of laws, regulations and licensing requirements of state and local authorities in the PRC. In certain jurisdictions, we are required to obtain licenses or permits and to meet certain standards in the conduct of our business. The loss of such licenses, or the imposition of conditions to the granting or retention of such licenses, could have an adverse effect on us. In the event that these laws, regulations and/or licensing requirements change, we may be required to modify our operations or to utilize resources to maintain compliance with such rules and regulations. In addition, new regulations may be enacted that could have an adverse effect on us. Our operating results are affected by peaks and troughs in our product delivery and project installation schedule and we may experience delays in our recognition of revenue. We expect our results of operations to fluctuate significantly from period to period in the future. As we expand our video surveillance business, we expect the fluctuation to increase because the video surveillance business relies on a smaller number of large contracts. We generally recognize revenue from delivered hardware with bundled software when customer acceptance is obtained, which occurs when the customer acknowledges receipt of goods and the delivered hardware with bundled software meet vendor-specific criteria. For installation services, we recognize revenue after obtaining acceptance of the related services. Our revenue and profit during any given period reflects the number of products shipped and projects installed during that period and are significantly affected by any peaks or troughs in our product delivery and project installation schedule. The fluctuation in revenue from our video surveillance business reflected the characteristics of our product delivery and project installation schedule. Our operating results may not be indicative of the actual demand for our products and installation services during the relevant period. In addition, because we do not recognize revenue from installation services until after obtaining acceptance from customers, we may experience delays in recognizing revenue for certain projects. As a result, it may be difficult for us to predict our performance quarterly or annually and our operating results for any period are not necessarily indicative of results that may be expected for any future period. Our business is subject to a concentration of customers, and a significant portion of our video surveillance revenue comes from a small number of projects. Our business is subject to a concentration of customers. Our top ten customers collectively accounted for approximately 89%, 91% and 82% of our revenue in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. Richpower Co., Ltd., one of our major China-based distributors for our PC camera processor business, accounted for approximately 63% of our net revenue in 2012 and 26% of our net revenue in 2013. We expect to continue to rely on a concentration of China-based customers for our sales. We are especially dependent on a limited number of customers for our video surveillance business due to the project nature of such business, for which sales to our top five customers accounted for 72% of our total video surveillance revenue in 2013. In addition, our largest customers may change from time to time as we continue to expand our video surveillance market share. If a major customer ceases to order our products, or otherwise delays or reduces its order for our products, or if we fail to develop additional major customers, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Customers.” As we undertake a growing number of large-scale surveillance projects in our video surveillance business, we are also subject to certain concentration risks. Many of these large-scale surveillance projects are with government agencies and can take many months to complete. In order to successfully complete these projects, we need to ensure that we have sufficient cash to fund our working capital requirements and that we have sufficient technical and managerial resources to complete the projects in a timely manner and with acceptable quality. Any inability to complete the projects to the satisfaction of our customers, or any inability to receive payment upon completion, could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Future acquisitions, investments and divestitures may have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business and may harm our operating results. If we are presented with appropriate opportunities, we may acquire complementary technologies, businesses or assets. We may also consider divesting certain of our business operations to the extent our management deems it to be in the best interest of our shareholders and company. Future acquisitions, investments and divestitures would expose us to potential risks, including risks associated with the assimilation of new technologies, businesses and personnel, unforeseen or hidden liabilities, the diversion of management attention and resources from our existing business and the inability to generate sufficient revenue or cost savings associated with such acquisitions, investments or divestitures. Any difficulties encountered in the integration and divestiture process may have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. We have made and may continue to consider making strategic divestitures. To concentrate more on our video surveillance business and video surveillance processor business, we disposed of certain loss-making businesses, including our non-core IC businesses and our mobile phone multimedia processor businesses in 2010 and 2011. There is no assurance that the business divestiture may be completed as expected, or the projected cost savings and other benefits of such divestiture may be realized to our benefit, on a timely basis, or at all. We may also experience business interruptions in case the business divestiture was not executed successfully. We plan to allocate additional resources to the development of our video surveillance business. For example, we made investments and established Zhongtianxin in 2012. Any negative development in this regard may have a material and adverse impact upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents We may not be able to execute cost-control measures successfully which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have adopted significant measures to reduce our operating costs and expenses. These measures include adjusting staff and employee compensation and benefits and implementing general cost-control measures across our company. We expect to continue these measures. We may not achieve the expected savings on our operating costs and expenses, and we may otherwise experience significant increases in operating costs and expenses without any associated increase in revenue. A portion of our operating costs and expenses are fixed and do not change in line with the fluctuation in our revenues. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if our cost-reduction measures are not executed properly, the quality of our products may be affected and our ability to generate future revenue may deteriorate. Our adjustments in staff and employee compensation and benefits may also adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key employees. Failure to obtain design wins could have a material adverse effect on our video processor business. Our business significantly depends on our ability to obtain design wins whereby the product designers agree to incorporate our video processors into their new product designs. Once a video processor designed by a supplier has been incorporated into a product design, especially PC camera designs, the product designer tends to keep the same supplier for the life of the product as significant costs are generally required in association with qualifying a new supplier. This reluctance to change existing suppliers may be an entry barrier for new suppliers and there is no guarantee that we may qualify as suppliers to new customers we intend to sell our products to. On the other hand, the designers of PC camera and surveillance products constantly develop and introduce new products to the market, which requires suppliers, such as us, to continue to create innovative, highly integrated, low-power and cost-effective products and solutions in order to continue to achieve design wins from our current customers. Our failure to achieve design wins could have a material adverse effect on our business. We face significant volatility in supply and demand conditions for our video processor products, and this volatility, as well as any failure by us to accurately forecast future supply and demand conditions, could materially and negatively impact our business. The semiconductor industry has historically been characterized by significant fluctuations in the demand for, and supply of, semiconductor products. Demand for our products depends in large part on the continued growth of various electronics industries that use our products, including, but not limited to: · PC and computer-related peripherals; · security processor and surveillance products; and · wireless telecommunications equipment. Any downturn or reduction in the growth of these industries could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We order materials and build our products based primarily on our internal forecasts, customer forecasts and existing orders. Existing orders may be cancelled and our forecasted orders may not be realized. There is no guarantee that we may adjust our orders for raw materials and manufacturing activities on a timely basis to reflect such changes. Because the video processor market is volatile and subject to rapid technological and price changes, our forecasts may be inaccurate, causing us to incur significant costs and expenses, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our video processor business is dependent on sales of our PC camera processors. We derive a significant portion of our net revenue from sales of our PC camera processors. In 2011, 2012 and 2013, we generated approximately 80%, 75% and 32%, respectively, of our net revenue from sales of PC camera processors. Even though our sales of PC camera processors have significantly decreased in 2013, we expect that sales of our PC camera processors will continue to be a major source of revenue for our video processor business in the near future. However, we also anticipate that revenue from surveillance processors will continue to increase as a proportion of the revenue from our video processor business. The success of competing products, negative development or slow-down in the growth of the PC camera market or any other adverse developments could result in decreased demand or lower average prices for these products, which could in turn result in a decrease in the revenue from the sale of these products. Any such negative development, or any inability to generate an increasing portion of revenue from surveillance processors, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Our video processor business depends on our ability to respond in a timely manner to the evolving video processor market and changing consumer preferences and industry standards. Our business and future growth depends significantly on the development of the video processor market, which is evolving rapidly. The development of the video processor market depends on several factors, including changes in end user preferences and demand for multimedia functions and applications on end products. In addition, the video processor market is characterized by evolving industry standards, which are difficult for us to predict. If we do not respond to the evolving market, changing consumer preferences and industry standards in a timely manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our lengthy time-to-market makes it difficult for us to forecast revenue and increases the variability of our short-term results. Our video processor products business is characterized by lengthy intervals between the product development stage and the volume sales stage. This interval, commonly referred to as time-to-market, typically ranges from three to six months for our video processors, and may be significantly longer for new customers. A number of factors contribute to the length of our time-to-market. After initially developing a product, we need to convince a customer to incorporate it into the design of the customer’s end product, which is referred to as a “design win.” Following the design win, we need to complete our product development and deliver our product to the customer, and the customer will then test and evaluate our product before completing the design of its own end product. Our customers may need one to two months or longer to test and evaluate our products and an additional three months or more to commence volume production of end products. Our lengthy time-to-market makes it difficult for us to forecast revenue and results in fluctuations in our short-term results. It also results in a lengthy interval from the time we incur research and development and other operating expenses in connection with a new product to the time that we can start to generate revenue from the product. In addition, there is no guarantee that a design win will result in volume production or sales of our product. We may not be able to generate sufficient revenue and profit from a new product to offset the operating expenses incurred in connection with the development and sale of that product. We may be unable to accurately predict demand for our video processors, which may result in product shortages or excess inventory or obsolete inventory. The lead time required by the foundries that we use to fabricate wafers and manufacture our video processors is generally longer than the lead time our customers may require for delivery of our products to them. Consequently, we must forecast our anticipated manufacturing needs and place binding manufacturing orders with these foundries before we receive purchase orders from our customers. This may result in shortages or excess inventory because we cannot easily adjust our orders or commitments. Obtaining additional supply in the event of inventory shortages may be costly or impossible, particularly in a short time frame, which could prevent us from fulfilling orders from our customers. In line with industry-wide increases in foundry lead times, the lead times the foundries require to manufacture our new video processors have grown longer, which has led to an increase in our inventory levels. These lead times may increase further, which may in turn cause us to increase our inventory levels. In addition, like most semiconductor products, our video processors are often susceptible to rapidly declining average selling prices or product obsolescence. Excess inventory levels, whether due to inaccurate forecasts, lengthening foundry lead times or other reasons, could result in unprofitable sales or write-offs of excess or obsolete inventory. Consequently, any such negative development could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We depend on third-party foundries to manufacture our video processors. Failure to obtain sufficient foundry capacity could significantly delay our ability to ship our products, cause us to lose revenue and damage our customer relationships. We rely on Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, or TSMC, and Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation, or SMIC, to manufacture our video processors. We face several risks associated with our dependence on these third-party foundries, including: · failure to secure sufficient manufacturing capacity at a reasonable cost, or at all; · limited control over delivery schedules, quality assurance and control, manufacturing yields and production costs; and · the unavailability of, or potential delays in obtaining access to, key process technologies. The ability of a foundry to manufacture our video processors is limited by its available production capacity. Neither of these third-party foundries has allocated a fixed level of production capacity to us. It is difficult for us to accurately forecast our capacity needs. We do not have any long-term agreement with any foundry and we typically place orders with them on a purchase order basis, depending on our own customers’ purchase orders and sales forecasts. These foundries can allocate their production capacities to their other customers and reduce deliveries to us on short notice. It is possible that other customers of these foundries are larger with more financial and other resources than we are, or have long-term agreements with these foundries. Foundries may allocate their production capacities to these customers on a preferential basis in the event that they experience shortage in production capacity. Any shortfall in available foundry capacity could significantly delay our ability to ship our products, cause us to lose revenue and damage our customer relationships. 13 Table of Contents In addition, if either of these foundries experience financial difficulties, suffer damage to its facilities, or experience other disruption to their operations, we may not be able to qualify an alternative foundry in a timely manner, as the qualification process could take several months before we could place an order. Such a delay could damage our customer relationships and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the foundries that we use do not achieve expected manufacturing yields, our product costs could increase and product availability could decrease. The manufacture of semiconductors is a highly complex process. Minute impurities in a silicon wafer can cause a substantial number of wafers to be rejected or cause numerous die on a wafer to be nonfunctional. Foundries encounter difficulties from time to time in achieving acceptable manufacturing yields, which are measured by the percentage of dies produced on a fab line that pass all visual and process control monitoring tests. This often occurs during the production of new products or the installation and start-up of new process technologies. The foundries that we use may not be able to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields as we migrate our designs to smaller geometries. If these foundries do not achieve expected manufacturing yields, our product costs could increase and product availability could decrease. Significant disruption in operations of the two independent assembly and testing houses we rely on could significantly disrupt our shipments, harm our customer relationships and reduce our sales. We rely on independent assembly and testing houses to assemble and test substantially all of our current video processors either for the foundry or directly for us. As a result, we do not have direct control on our product delivery schedules, assembly and testing costs or quality assurance and control. We currently engage Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, Inc., or ASE, and Siliconware Precision Industries Co., Ltd., or SPIL, for our assembly and testing requirements. If either of these assembly and testing houses experiences capacity constraints or financial difficulties or suffers any damage to their facilities, or if there is any other disruption of operations, we may not be able to obtain alternative assembly and testing services in a timely manner. We do not have long-term agreements with either of our independent assembly and testing houses. We typically procure services from them on a per-order basis. Because of the lengthy period required to qualify third-party assembly and testing houses, we could experience significant delays in product shipments if we are required to qualify an alternative assembly and testing house for our products on short notice. Any issue we may experience in this regard could negatively affect our product delivery, product quality or result in increased operating costs and expenses, which could in turn damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers. Our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected as a result. Our video processor business significantly depends on our customers’ ability to successfully sell their products incorporating our video processors. Demand for our products significantly depends on the market demand for our customers’ products incorporating our products. In particular, even if a product designer decides to incorporate our products into its product or design, the designer may not be able to market and sell its product or design successfully. Even though the designer does not have the right to return the product purchased from us, the designer’s inability to market and sell its products, whether from lack of market acceptance or otherwise, could adversely affect our business as the designer may cease to order or otherwise reduce orders of our products. Our reputation may also be negatively affected. Accordingly, our business depends on our customers’ ability to successfully sell their products incorporating our products, and may be materially and adversely affected if they fail to do so. One of the principal foundries and one of the assembly and testing houses that we use are both located in a region that is subject to earthquakes, typhoons and other natural disasters, as well as geopolitical risks and social upheaval. Our business relies on certain foundries and assembly and testing houses in Taiwan. In particular, we currently rely on TSMC, one of our principal foundries, to manufacture a majority of our video processors. In addition, we also use ASE as one of our assembly and testing houses. These two entities are both located in Taiwan, which is susceptible to earthquakes, typhoons, floods and other natural disasters. Taiwan has historically experienced severe earthquakes that have caused significant casualties and property damage. In addition, TSMC and ASE are subject to risks associated with uncertain political, economic and other conditions in Taiwan and elsewhere in Asia, such as political turmoil in the region and the outbreak of communicable diseases. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could disrupt the operations of TSMC and ASE, resulting in significant delays in deliveries or substantial shortages in supply. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents We are exposed to risks relating to our development of facilities on land held by Vimicro Jiangsu Vimicro Jiangsu holds land use rights to a parcel of undeveloped land that we originally planned to use for our non-core IC businesses. We currently plan on using the property to develop offices, sales and research facilities. We will use a portion of these facilities for our own purposes and the remaining portion we will sell to third parties through the assistance of the local government. Such third party buyers and the terms of the relevant sales agreements will need to be approved by the local government. The sale of a portion of the units to qualified third parties is in line with the government policy of attracting investment to the local area. For a detailed discussion of our current plan with respect to the land held by Vimicro Jiangsu, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—D. Property, Plant and Equipment.” The construction of this project involves a number of risks including: · our ability to sell completed units to purchasers at acceptable prices, or at all; · our ability to reach agreements with, and obtain regulatory consents and approvals from, local regulators, for the conversion of the land use rights and issuance of ownership certificates to allow us to dispose of property units to be built on the land; · our ability to use the completed units for our business needs; · our ability to work effectively with partners in developing the property and selling units of the property; · potential fines and penalties for delays in development of the property; · our ability to obtain necessary cash and financial resources to complete the construction of this project; and · our ability to apply for and acquire necessary governmental approvals in developing the property and selling units of the property. Any such negative development could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In November 2013, we entered into an agreement with the Nanjing Bureau of Land and Resources, or the Bureau. Pursuant to this agreement, we agreed to pay a security deposit of RMB1.8 million ($0.3 million) to the Bureau. The Bureau has agreed to repay us half of this amount if we commence construction by May 15, 2014 and the other half if we complete construction by May 15, 2016. However, failure to meet these deadlines could cause us to lose the deposit that we have paid. We are currently managing construction projects with significant capital expenditure requirements and may continue to manage such projects in the future, including the development of the property held by Vimicro Jiangsu. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—D. Property, Plant and Equipment.” We are required to obtain various governmental approvals at the different stages of our construction projects, and there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain such approvals on a timely basis. In addition, the relevant governmental authorities may require us to make material changes to our initial designs as conditions to issue certain approvals, which may significantly increase the costs and capital requirements of our construction projects. Government authorities could also impose penalties or fines for any non-compliance issues or significant construction delays. In addition, we rely on independent contractors for the construction of these projects. The contractors may experience financial or other difficulties which may affect their ability to carry out construction work and thus delay the completion of the projects or cause us to incur additional costs. In addition, construction delays and specific site conditions at any site could affect the final cost and completion date of the projects, which may in turn disrupt our growth strategy and materially and adversely affect our operating results. An increase in the estimated or actual construction costs may require a higher capital expenditure than we had anticipated. Any such negative development could materially affect the progress of our construction projects, which in turn could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents We rely on third-party distributors for a significant portion of our revenue. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from sales to distributors who resell our products to manufacturers of modules or end products, such as PC cameras into which our products are incorporated. Sales to distributors accounted for 67%, 72% and 37% of our net revenue in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. In 2013, there were two distributors among our top ten customers. As a result, our ability to maintain good relationships with these distributors is important to the growth of our business and our results of operations. If our major distributors defer orders or fail to place additional orders with us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We do not have long-term purchase commitments from our customers, which may result in significant uncertainty and volatility with respect to our revenue from period to period. We do not have long-term purchase commitments from our customers and our sales are made on the basis of individual purchase orders. Our customers may cancel or defer purchase orders. Our customers’ purchase orders may vary significantly from period to period, and it is difficult to forecast future order quantities. We cannot assure you that any of our customers will continue to place purchase orders with us in the future at the same level as in prior periods. We also cannot assure you that the volume of our customers’ purchase orders will be consistent with our expectations when we plan our expenditures. As a result, our results of operations may vary from period to period and may fluctuate significantly in the future. If we are unable to obtain additional capital in future years, we may be unable to grow at the expected pace or proceed with our long-term business plan, and we may be forced to curtail or cease some of our projects. We will require additional working capital to support our long-term business plan, which includes identifying suitable targets for horizontal or vertical mergers or acquisitions, fulfilling the agreements with general contractors or government agencies to provide the products and services for video surveillance projects, constructing additional projects for research, development, productions or office uses. Our working capital requirements and the cash flow provided by future operating activities, if any, will vary greatly from period to period, depending on the volume of business during the period and payment terms with our customers. We may not be able to obtain adequate levels of additional financing, whether through equity financing, debt financing or through other sources. Additional equity financings could result in significant dilution to our shareholders and debt financing could adversely affect our earnings. If we are unable to raise additional capital, we may be unable to implement our long-term business plan, develop or enhance our products and services, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competition on a timely basis, if at all. In addition, lack of financing could force us to substantially curtail or cease some of our projects. Defects in our products could result in a loss of customers and a decrease in revenue, unexpected expenses and a reduction in market share. Our products are complex and must meet stringent quality requirements. Complex products, such as our highly integrated single-chip video processor products, may contain defects, errors or viruses when they are first introduced or as new versions are released. If any of our products have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, we may not be able to correct these problems on a timely basis. Consequently, our reputation may be damaged and we may fail to obtain design wins, which could harm our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers. In addition, these defects, errors or viruses could interrupt or delay sales to our customers. Because we cannot test for all possible scenarios, our products may contain errors which are not discovered until after they are shipped. If any of these problems are not found until after we have delivered our products to our customers, we may be required to incur additional development costs and costs associated with product recalls, repairs or replacements. Product defects may also result in product liability claims against us. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and we expect our operating results to continue to fluctuate. Our revenue and operating results are difficult to predict, and have in the past and may in the future fluctuate from period to period. We expect that our revenue will continue to vary from period to period, making it difficult to predict our future operating results. In particular, we experience seasonality and variability in the demand for our products as our customers manage their inventories. Our customers tend to increase their inventories of our products in anticipation of the peak fourth quarter buying season for PCs and other devices into which our products are incorporated, which often leads to sequentially lower sales of our products in the first and fourth quarters. In addition, business activities in China generally slows down during the Chinese New Year period in the first quarter of each year, which may adversely affect our sales and results of operations during that period. We base our planned operating expenses in part on our expectations of future revenue. If our revenue for a particular period is lower than what we expect, we may be unable to proportionately reduce our operating expenses for that period, which could harm our operating results for that quarter. 16 Table of Contents Additional factors that could cause our results of operations to fluctuate include: · the timing and volume of purchase orders and cancellations from our customers; · changes in manufacturing costs, including wafer, testing and assembly costs, and changes in manufacturing yields, product quality and reliability; · the timing and availability of adequate manufacturing capacity of the foundries we use; · our ability to successfully design and introduce new products, including video surveillance products, in a timely manner that meet our customers’ needs; · the timing, performance and pricing of new products introduced by us and our competitors; · the timing and amount of operating expenses incurred by us, including cash bonuses to senior management; · the liquidity and cash flow of our company and our customers; and · changes in exchange rates, interest rates, tax rates and tax withholding. Any fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations may affect the price of our ADSs. In future periods, the market price of our ADSs could decline if our revenue and results of operations are below the expectations of analysts and investors. We may not be able to prevent others from the unauthorized use of our intellectual property, which could harm our business and competitive position. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods to protect our intellectual property rights. As of December 31, 2013, we had 561 registered patents and 326 pending patent applications in China, 59 registered patents and 47 pending patent applications in the United States, one registered patent and six pending patent applications in Taiwan and four pending patent applications in South Korea. We cannot assure you that any patent will be issued as a result of our applications or, if issued, that it will sufficiently protect our intellectual property rights. Implementation of PRC intellectual property-related laws has historically been lacking, primarily because of ambiguities in the PRC laws and difficulties in enforcement. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive. The steps we have taken may be inadequate to prevent the misappropriation of our proprietary technology. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technologies could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without paying us for doing so, which could harm our business and competitive position. Though we are not currently involved in any litigation with respect to intellectual property, we may need to enforce our intellectual property rights through litigation. Litigation relating to our intellectual property might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. See “—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us.” We may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be time-consuming and costly to defend and, if successful, result in our loss of significant rights and inability to continue providing our existing products. Our business also depends in large part on our ability to use and develop our technology and know-how without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming and could divert management’s attention from our business. If there is a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay substantial damages to the party claiming infringement, develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our failure to develop non-infringing technologies or license the proprietary rights on a timely basis would harm our business. Protracted litigation could also result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our products until resolution of such litigation. Also, we may be unaware of filed patent applications that relate to our products. Parties making infringement claims may be able to obtain an injunction, which could prevent us from selling our products or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property. Any intellectual property litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our senior executives and other key personnel, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our business and future growth depends heavily upon the continued services of our senior executives and other key employees. We rely on their expertise in research and development, business operations, sales and marketing and on their relationships with our shareholders and customers and relevant government authorities. We also rely on a number of experienced mixed-signal semiconductor designers who are difficult to find since it often requires years of experience to fully master mixed-signal design. We do not maintain key-man life insurance for any of our senior executives or other key employees. If one or more of our senior executives or key employees were unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we might not be able to replace them easily or at all. Our business may be severely disrupted, our financial conditions and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected, and we may incur additional expenses to recruit, train and retain personnel. Since our industry is characterized by high demand and intense competition for talent, we also may not be able to attract or retain additional highly skilled employees or other key personnel that we will need to achieve our strategic objectives. Our business has grown rapidly. Our ability to train and integrate new employees into our operations may not meet the growing demands of our business. 17 Table of Contents If any of our senior executives or key employees joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose customers, suppliers, know-how and key professionals and staff members. Each of our executive officers has entered into an employment agreement with us, which contains non-competition provisions. However, if any dispute arises between our executive officers and us, we cannot assure you the extent to which any of these agreements could be enforced in China, where these executive officers reside, in light of the uncertainties with China’s legal system. See “—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us.” Our business success depends on our ability to retain our key employees or replace departing key employees in a timely manner. All share options that we initially granted to certain key employees have become vested. While we periodically grant additional share options to certain employees upon their recruitments, the numbers of options that we may grant from time to time with respect to such new hires are generally smaller compared to our initial option grants to our key employees. Such key employees as well as our newly hired employees may leave us after the share options are fully vested, especially if the options are substantially exercised. If any member of our management team or any of our key employees leaves our company, our ability to operate our business and execute our strategy could be materially impaired. We may also incur significant costs in identifying, hiring, training and retaining replacements for departing employees. There is no assurance that we could do so at a timely manner, or at all. There are unknown risks associated with our acquisitions. Selective acquisitions form part of our strategic expansion plan. Failure to successfully integrate the acquired business may affect the expected synergies from this acquisition and impede our overall growth strategy. Although we have conducted due diligence in connection with this acquisition, we may not be aware of all of the risks associated with the acquired business. Discovery of adverse information concerning the acquired business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we are entitled to claiming indemnification in certain circumstances, asserting indemnification or enforcing such indemnification could be costly and time-consuming and may not be successful at all. We are subject to risks relating to our relationships with minority shareholders of our non wholly-owned subsidiaries and joint venture partners of our associated companies. We have one significant non wholly-owned subsidiary, Vimicro Tianjin. The constitutional documents of Vimicro Tianjin require an affirmative vote of a qualified majority of the shareholders to take certain actions, which could have the consequence of slowing down the decision-making process for the subsidiary. In addition, the other major shareholder of Zhongtianxin, a joint venture established in 2012 in which we beneficially own 51% of equity interest, may exercise substantive participating rights in accordance with the constitutional documents of Zhongtianxin. We cannot assure you that we will maintain sound relationships with the other shareholders of these entities, and we may be required to dispose of our interests in any of such entities in the future or to purchase such interests held by the other shareholders. Failure to maintain relationships with the other shareholders of our non wholly-owned subsidiaries and associated companies may result in material disputes or disruptions of the operations of these subsidiaries, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we could suffer a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which must also contain management’s assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting. Our management has conducted an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting, and concludes that our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013 is effective. We are continuously improving our internal control over financial reporting in line with the development of our business, including the recent expansion of our operations in the security and surveillance market. However, we cannot assure you that our efforts to improve and develop our internal control over financial reporting will be effective or any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we could suffer a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs, result in lawsuits being filed against us by our shareholders or otherwise harm our reputation. Furthermore, we have incurred and anticipate that we will continue to incur considerable costs and use significant management time and other resources in an effort to continue to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 18 Table of Contents Contractual arrangements between Vimicro China and Vimicro Hong Kong may be subject to scrutiny by the Hong Kong tax authorities and a finding that Vimicro Hong Kong owes additional taxes could substantially reduce our financial performance and the value of your investment. We use Vimicro Hong Kong, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vimicro China incorporated in Hong Kong, to facilitate a substantial portion of our overseas sales activities, primarily due to Vimicro Hong Kong’s close proximity to our clients as well as foundries and assembly and testing houses located in Taiwan and Hong Kong. Vimicro Hong Kong and Vimicro China have entered into a contractual arrangement pursuant to which Vimicro Hong Kong makes royalty payments to Vimicro China for certain technologies licensed by Vimicro China. We could be subject to material and adverse tax liabilities if the Hong Kong tax authorities determine that such contractual arrangement for royalty payments were not entered into on an arm’s-length basis and adjust Vimicro Hong Kong’s taxable income in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. In addition, the Hong Kong tax authorities may impose late payment fees and other penalties on Vimicro Hong Kong for underpaid or unpaid taxes. Our financial performance may be materially and adversely affected if Vimicro Hong Kong’s tax liabilities increase or if it is found to be subject to related fees or penalties. Any such negative development could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Vimicro Hong Kong’s application for claims in the future may not be successful and as a result, the penalties to those underpaid taxes might be invoked and the royalty payments to Vimicro China could be subject to withholding tax. In September 2006, Vimicro Hong Kong lodged offshore claims for all years since its commencement of operations in 2002. Based on the territorial source principle of taxation in Hong Kong, we believe that Vimicro Hong Kong has a reasonable basis to obtain the approval for such offshore claims. If the offshore claims are approved by the tax authorities in Hong Kong, Vimicro Hong Kong will not be subject to profits taxes on its operations or withholding taxes on its royalty payments to Vimicro China. In November 2012, Vimicro Hong Kong obtained a notice of no tax adjustment for the years from 2005/06 to 2008/09 and a Notice of Revised Assessment and Refund of Tax for 2004/05 and Notice of Provision Tax for 2005/06 from the Hong Kong Inland Revenue Department. As such, Vimicro Hong Kong’s offshore claims for such periods have been accepted by the tax authorities in Hong Kong. We believe that Vimicro Hong Kong is highly likely to obtain approval for its offshore claims and enjoy exemptions of profits taxes for 2010/11, 2011/12 and 2012/13 in Hong Kong, as there has been no change in its business model since 2009. However, we cannot assure you that Vimicro Hong Kong will be able to enjoy such favorable tax treatments. If the tax authorities in Hong Kong decline Vimicro Hong Kong’s offshore claims in the future, Vimicro Hong Kong could be required to pay unpaid or underpaid taxes and be subject to penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be exposed to liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Chinese anti-corruption laws, and any determination that we violate any of these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practice Act, or FCPA, and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. persons and issuers as defined by the statute for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We are similarly subject to Chinese anti-corruption laws. Our activities in China create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of the employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors of our Company, even though these parties are not always subject to our control. We implement safeguard measures to prohibit these practices by our employees. Although we believe that we have adopted sufficient measures to control the related risks, our existing safeguard measures and any future improvements may not be effective in prohibiting related illegal conducts. The employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors of our Company may engage in conducts, without our knowledge, for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA or Chinese anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the U.S. government may seek to hold our Company liable for successor liability FCPA violations committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire. We have limited insurance coverage in China, and any business disruption or litigation we experience may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products and do not, to our knowledge, offer business liability insurance. While business disruption insurance is available to a limited extent in China, we have determined that the risks of disruption, cost of such insurance and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance on commercially reasonable terms make it impractical for us to have such insurance. As a result, except for fire insurance and our liability insurance for directors and officers, we do not have any business liability, disruption or litigation insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption or litigation may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. Any such negative development could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Industry The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against our competitors. The video processor market and video surveillance market are intensely competitive and are characterized by frequent technological changes and evolving industry standards. Our video processor business is comprised of two sub-product lines: PC camera processors and surveillance processors. In the PC camera processor market, we face competition primarily from ALi Corporation, EMPIA Technology Inc., Sonix Technology Co. Ltd. and Sunplus Technology Industrial Corp. In the surveillance processor market, we face competition primarily from Texas Instruments Incorporated, HiSilicon Technologies Co., Ltd. and Ambarella Incorporated. A large number of companies in China also engage in the business of designing, manufacturing and installing video surveillance products. We also face competition from international companies since China’s entry into the World Trade Organization in 2001. In our video surveillance business, we face competitions from companies such as Sony, Samsung, Texas Instruments Incorporated, NXP Semiconductors N.V., Zhejiang Uniview Technologies Co., Ltd. and STMicroelectronics Dahua Technology, Axis, HiSilicon Technologies Co., Ltd. and Ambarella Incorporated. We expect competition to increase in the markets in which we conduct our business. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins and market share and increased marketing and research and development expenditures. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, sales and other resources than we do and may be able to respond to changing market conditions and customer requirements more quickly and effectively. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively and increase or maintain our revenue and market share in the video processor market and video surveillance market or compete successfully against our current or future competitors. If we are unable to successfully compete with existing and future competitors, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our video surveillance product offerings involve a lengthy sales cycle and we may not anticipate sales levels appropriately, which could impair our profitability. Some of our video surveillance products and services are designed for medium to large commercial, industrial and government facilities to protect valuable assets or prevent intrusion into high security facilities in China. Given the nature of our products and the customers that purchase them, sales cycles can be lengthy as customers conduct intensive investigations and deliberate between competing technologies and providers. For these and other reasons, the sales cycle associated with some of our products and services is typically lengthy and subject to a number of significant risks over which we have little or no control. If sales in any period fall significantly below anticipated levels, our financial condition and results of operations could suffer. We are subject to rapidly declining average selling prices, which may harm our revenue and gross profit. Semiconductor products and electronics products into which they are incorporated are typically sold in high volumes and are subject to rapid declines in average selling prices. We have reduced the prices of many of our video processor products in the past to meet market demand, and expect that we will continue to face market-driven pricing pressures on our products in the short term as a result of the industry downturn and uncertain market conditions. We expect to face more pricing pressures on our video processor products, which would require us to reduce the production costs of our existing products and develop new products with better prices in order to stay competitive. We will focus on promoting our production scale and reducing production costs in our video processor products. Our financial results will suffer if we are unable to offset any reductions in our average selling prices by developing new or enhanced products on a timely basis with higher selling prices or gross profit margins, increasing our sales volumes or reducing our costs. We may be adversely affected by the cyclicality of the semiconductor industry. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by constant and rapid technological change, product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. The semiconductor industry and our operations are characterized by high costs, such as those related to facility construction and equipment, research and development, and employment and training of a highly skilled workforce, that are either fixed or difficult to reduce in the short term. The industry has, from time to time, experienced significant downturns, often connected with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both semiconductor companies’ and their customers’ products and declines in general economic conditions. In addition, during these downturns some competitors may become more aggressive in their pricing practices, which would adversely impact our gross margin. Any downturns in the semiconductor industry may be severe and prolonged, and any failure of the industry to fully recover from downturns could seriously impact our revenue and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations in the short and long term. The semiconductor industry also periodically experiences increased demand and production capacity constraints, which may affect our ability to ship products. 20 Table of Contents The recent global economic crisis has significantly impacted our industry and the downturn may occur again in the near to medium term. The recent downturn in our industry has led to sharply diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. Any future downturns may result in consolidations in our industry and changes in our competitive landscape. They may also reduce our revenue, cause excessive inventory, and result in material and adverse changes in our operating results. Our business could be materially and adversely affected if we fail to anticipate changes in evolving industry standards and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products. Our products are generally based on industry standards, which are continually evolving. Significant changes in customer requirements and preferences, introduction of new products and services embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices could render our products, services and systems obsolete, and may require us to incur substantial unanticipated costs to comply with any such new standards. We have in the past significantly relied on our ability to anticipate changes in technology and industry standards and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products. Our continued ability to adapt to such changes and anticipate future standards will be a significant factor in maintaining or improving our competitive position and our prospects for growth. We cannot assure you that we will be able to anticipate the evolving industry standards or that we will be able to successfully develop and introduce new products to meet the new standards. If we fail to anticipate technological change and introduce new products that achieve market acceptance, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related To Doing Business in China Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and have a material adverse effect on our competitive position. Most of our business operations are conducted in China and we believe that a significant portion of devices that our products are incorporated into are ultimately sold to end users in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement, the level of development, the growth rate, the control of foreign exchange and the allocation of resources. While the Chinese economy has experienced significant growth in the past twenty years, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. We cannot predict the future direction of economic reforms or the effects such measures may have on our business, financial position or results of operations. Any adverse change in the economic conditions in China, in the policies of the PRC government or in the laws and regulations in China, could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China or on the investment in the semiconductor industry. Such developments could lead to reduction in demand for our products and consequently materially and adversely affect our competitive position. Because our business depends in part on the continuing expansion of the electronics supply chain in China, any slowdown in this expansion or a disruption of the supply chain could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Our continuing growth is based upon, among other factors, the continuing expansion of design, manufacturing and other elements of the electronics supply chain in China. This expansion depends on many factors, such as the sustained global demand for electronics products, China’s ability to continue to attract foreign investment, maintain low costs of operations and supply a well-educated labor force, as well as compete successfully against other countries which desire to establish themselves as preferred supply centers. Since 2008, the global downturn has put severe pressure on global demand for electronics product, and significant realignment may take place in the electronics supply chain in China as a result. Any slowdown in the expansion of the electronics supply chain in China or a disruption of the supply chain due to industry realignment could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us. We conduct our business primarily through Vimicro China, which is subject to PRC laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign owned companies. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit the legal protections available to us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and the diversion of resources and management attention. 21 Table of Contents Our business benefits from certain tax incentives and government grants relating to research and development activities. Expiration or elimination of, or other adverse changes to, these tax incentives or reductions of these grants could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The PRC government has provided various tax incentives to domestic companies in the semiconductor industry, including Vimicro China, in order to encourage development of the industry. Vimicro China has benefited from tax incentives provided by the PRC tax authorities in the form of preferential tax treatment, reduced tax rates and tax credits, and has also received government research grants and other incentives. However, the PRC tax authorities could reduce or eliminate any or all of these tax incentives at any time in the future. In March 2007, the National People’s Congress adopted the New Enterprise Income Tax Law, or New EIT Law, which became effective as of January 1, 2008. Under the New EIT Law, the enterprise income tax rate for domestic and foreign enterprises is unified at 25%, and enterprises established prior to March 16, 2007 that were eligible for preferential tax treatment according to the then effective PRC EIT Law for Foreign Investment Enterprise and Foreign Enterprise, administrative regulations and circulars with equivalent effect are subject to transitional rules to gradually change their rates to 25%. Certain qualified “high and new technology companies” may be entitled to a 15% preferential tax rate if they meet the definition of “high and new technology enterprises” set out in the Implementation Rules of the New EIT Law. The Implementation Rules of the New EIT Law as well as a series of clarification rules were promulgated by the State Council and relevant local authorities. In accordance with the Implementation Rules of the New EIT Law, the preferential tax rates granted to PRC entities that previously qualified as “high and new technology enterprises” will not be automatically applicable under the new tax regime unless they qualify as “high and new technology enterprises” pursuant to the New EIT Law, its Implementation Rules, and relevant working guidance promulgated by the authorities. Vimicro China is currently recognized as a “high and new technology enterprise” under the New EIT Law which entitles Vimicro China to a preferential tax rate of 15% for three years starting from January 1, 2011. We cannot assure you that Vimicro China will continue to qualify for such status under governmental evaluations in the future. For example, in the past, we received certain preferential tax treatment as an integrated circuit design enterprises, or ICDE; however, we are no longer eligible for such preferential tax treatment. In the event the preferential tax treatment for Vimicro China is discontinued, it will become subject to the standard PRC enterprise income tax rate, which could materially increase our tax obligations. In addition, under the New EIT Law, the worldwide income of a resident enterprise, which includes an enterprise established outside of China with effective management located in China, will be subject to PRC income tax. If the PRC tax authorities determine that our company or any of our subsidiaries registered outside the PRC is a resident enterprise, its worldwide income will be subject to PRC income tax at a tax rate of 25%. Furthermore, under the New EIT Law, dividends payable by a foreign investment enterprise to its foreign non-resident enterprise investors that were derived from income after January 1, 2008 are subject to a 10% withholding tax, unless such foreign investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has signed a tax treaty or arrangement for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion with China that provides for a reduced rate of withholding tax. The Cayman Islands, where we are incorporated, does not have such a tax treaty with the PRC. If we are considered a non-resident enterprise, the 10% withholding tax imposed on our dividend income received from Vimicro China, our PRC subsidiary, would reduce our net income and have an adverse effect on our operating results. The New EIT Law also provides that, if a resident enterprise directly invests in another resident enterprise, the dividends received by the investing resident enterprise from the invested enterprise are exempted from income tax, subject to certain conditions. Therefore, if we are classified as a resident enterprise, the dividends that we receive from Vimicro China may be exempted from income tax. However, it remains unclear how the PRC tax authorities will interpret the PRC tax resident treatment of an offshore company, like us. The discontinuation of preferential tax treatment, the increase of the enterprise income tax rate applicable to Vimicro China, or the imposition of PRC income tax on our worldwide income could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Foreign holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares may be subject to PRC withholding tax on dividends payable by us and on gains realized on the sale of our ADSs or ordinary shares, if we are classified as a PRC “resident enterprise.” Under the New EIT Law, withholding tax at a rate of 10% is applicable to dividends payable to investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” which do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC, or which have such establishment or place of business but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, to the extent such interest or dividends have their sources within the PRC unless such non-resident enterprise can claim treaty protection. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of ADSs or ordinary shares by such investors is also subject to a 10% withholding tax if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. Since the New EIT Law is relatively new and ambiguous in certain aspects, there is uncertainty as to whether the dividends we pay with respect to our ADSs or ordinary shares, or the gain you may realize from the transfer of our ADSs or ordinary shares, would be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and be subject to PRC withholding tax. If we are required under the New EIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on such dividends or your gains realized on the sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares, your investment in our ADSs or ordinary shares may be materially and adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents Vimicro China is subject to restrictions on paying dividends or making other distributions to us. We are a holding company and we rely on dividends paid by our subsidiaries, including Vimicro China, for our cash needs, such as the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, to service any debt we may incur and to pay our operating expenses. Regulations in the PRC currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. Subsidiaries are required to set aside at least 10% of its accumulated profits each year, if any, to fund certain reserve funds, until the accumulated reserve fund exceeds 50% of its registered capital. These reserve funds are not distributable as cash dividends. If our subsidiary in China incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Future movements in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the RMB may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions and China’s foreign exchange policies. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the RMB is permitted to fluctuate within a managed band based on market supply and demand and by reference to a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in an approximately more than 30% appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar since the introduction of new policy. The majority of our revenue, cost of revenue and operating expenses are denominated in RMB, while a portion of non-operating expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars and Hong Kong dollars, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar. We use the U.S. dollar as the reporting currency for our financial statements. Fluctuations in exchange rates, primarily those involving the U.S. dollar, may affect our costs and operating margins as well as our net income and comprehensive income reported in U.S. dollars. Conversely, if we decide to convert our RMB into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the RMB would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenue effectively. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive a portion of our revenue in RMB, which is currently not a freely convertible currency. Under our current structure, our income will be primarily derived from dividend payments from Vimicro China. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from the transaction, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate governmental authorities is required where RMB is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted outside of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also, at its discretion, restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. In addition, we cannot be certain that the PRC regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on RMB foreign exchange transactions. PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiary, limit our subsidiary’s ability to distribute profits to us, or otherwise adversely affect us. On October 21, 2005, SAFE issued the Circular on Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Control on Domestic Residents’ Financing and Roundtrip Investment Through Offshore Special Purpose Vehicle, or Circular 75. On November 19, 2012, SAFE issued Notice on Further Improving and Adjusting Foreign Administration Policies in Respect of Foreign Direct Investment, or SAFE Circular 59, which became effective on December 17, 2012. SAFE Circular 59 provides, among other things, detailed implementing rules on initial registration procedures relating to incorporation of offshore special purpose vehicles owned by onshore residents and amendment registration procedures relating to changes to such offshore special purpose vehicles. Pursuant to Circular 75 and SAFE Circular 59, a PRC resident is required to complete the initial registration with the local SAFE counterpart before incorporating or acquiring control of an offshore special purpose vehicle, with assets or equity interests in an onshore company located in the PRC, for the purpose of offshore equity financing. The PRC resident is also required to amend the registration or handle a filing procedure upon (i) injection of the assets or equity interests in an onshore company or undertaking of offshore financing, and (ii) a material change that may affect the capital structure of the special purpose vehicle. Under Circular 75, the fulfillment of the initial and amended SAFE registrations is a prerequisite for other regulatory approvals and registrations required for relevant cross-border investment activities and capital flows, such as the offshore entity’s inbound capital contribution or provision of shareholder’s loans to the onshore entity and the onshore entity’s payment of dividends or repatriation of liquidation proceeds, equity interests disposal proceeds or capital reduction to the offshore entity. 23 Table of Contents We have notified beneficial owners of our company who are PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch as required under Circular 75. We understand that members of our senior management who are PRC residents have registered with the local SAFE branch. However, we may not at all times be fully aware or informed of the identities of all our beneficial owners who are PRC residents, and we may not always be able to compel our beneficial owners to comply with the Circular 75 requirements. As a result, we cannot assure you that all of our shareholders or beneficial owners who are PRC residents will at all times comply with, or in the future make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by, Circular 75 or other related regulations. The failure or inability of beneficial owners of our company resident in the PRC to comply with the registration procedures set forth under Circular 75 could subject such beneficial owners to fines and legal sanctions and may also limit our ability to contribute additional capital into our PRC subsidiary, limit our PRC subsidiary’s ability to distribute profits to our company or otherwise adversely affect our business. If the PRC government determines that the contractual arrangements that establish the structure for operating our wireless value-added telecommunications business do not comply with applicable PRC laws and regulations, we could be subject to penalties. We are a Cayman Islands company and, as such, we are classified as a foreign enterprise under PRC laws, and our PRC subsidiaries, including Vimicro China, are foreign-invested enterprises. Various regulations in China restrict or prevent foreign-invested entities from holding certain licenses required to operate value-added telecommunications business, including wireless value-added telecommunications business. In light of these restrictions, we plan to rely on Vimicro Sky-Vision to hold and maintain the permits and licenses necessary to operate our wireless value-added telecommunications business in China. Vimicro Sky-Vision has had no substantive operations since its incorporation. We do not possess any equity interest in Vimicro Sky-Vision, but we receive certain economic benefits from it through various contractual arrangements and certain corporate governance and shareholder rights arrangements. In addition, we have entered into agreements with each of Vimicro Sky-Vision’s shareholders, which provide us with substantial control over Vimicro Sky-Vision. For a description of these contractual arrangements with Vimicro Sky-Vision and its shareholders, see “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions—Contractual Arrangements with Vimicro Sky-Vision and its Shareholders.” The Circular on Strengthening the Administration of Foreign Investment in and Operation of Value-added Telecommunications Business, or the Circular, issued in July 2006 by the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, or the MIIT, reiterated the regulations on foreign investment in telecommunications businesses, which requires foreign investors to set up foreign-invested enterprises and obtain a business operating license, or VT license, for conducting any value-added telecommunications business in China. Under the Circular, a domestic company that holds a VT license is prohibited from leasing, transferring or selling the license to foreign investors in any form. They are also prohibited from providing any assistance, including providing resources, sites or facilities, to foreign investors that conduct value-added telecommunications business illegally in China. Furthermore, the relevant trademarks and domain names that are used in the value-added telecommunications business must be owned by a VT license holder or its shareholder(s). The Circular further requires each VT license holder to have the necessary facilities for its approved business operations and to maintain such facilities in the regions covered by its license. In addition, all value-added telecommunications service providers are required to maintain network and information security in accordance with the standards set forth under relevant PRC regulations. Due to a lack of interpretative materials from the regulator, it is unclear what impact the Circular will have on us or other domestic providers of value-added telecommunications services that have adopted the same or similar corporate and contractual structures as ours. If we are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, including the Circular, or if we fail to obtain or maintain any of the required permits or approvals, the relevant regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including but not limited to imposing fines, issuing rectification orders, confiscating our income, revoking Vimicro China’s or Vimicro Sky-Vision’s business and operating licenses, requiring us to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations or requiring us to discontinue all or any portion of our wireless value-added telecommunication business. We did not derive any revenues from our wireless value-added telecommunications business in 2013 and we currently do not have any plan to operate wireless value-added telecommunications business in the foreseeable future. 24 Table of Contents Our contractual arrangements with Vimicro Sky-Vision and its shareholders, respectively, may not be as effective in providing control over Vimicro Sky-Vision as direct ownership. We plan to conduct our wireless value-added telecommunication business in China through Vimicro Sky-Vision, which was set up in March 2010. There have been no substantive operations since its incorporation. Our contractual arrangements with Vimicro Sky-Vision and its shareholders provide us with effective control over Vimicro Sky-Vision. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions—Contractual Arrangements with Vimicro Sky-Vision and its Shareholders.” As a result of these contractual arrangements, we are considered to be the primary beneficiary of Vimicro Sky-Vision and Vimicro Sky-Vision becomes our VIE. Accordingly, we consolidate the results of operations, assets and liabilities of Vimicro Sky-Vision in our financial statements. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing us with control over Vimicro Sky-Vision as direct ownership. In addition, Vimicro Sky-Vision or its shareholders may breach the contractual arrangements. We cannot assure you that when conflicts of interest arise, Vimicro Sky-Vision and its shareholders will act completely in our interests or that conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor. In any such event, we would have to rely on legal remedies under PRC law. These remedies may not always be effective, particularly in light of uncertainties in the PRC legal system. See “—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us.” Contractual arrangements we have entered into may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities, and a finding that we or Vimicro Sky-Vision owe additional taxes could reduce our net income and the value of your investment. As required by applicable PRC laws and regulations, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities. On January 8, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation, or SAT, issued the Implementation Measures of Special Tax Adjustments (Provisional), which reinforces its supervision on transfer pricing. We could face adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that the contractual arrangements between Vimicro China and Vimicro Sky-Vision, if any, do not represent an arm’s-length price, and adjust Vimicro Sky-Vision’s income in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could, among other things, result in a reduction, for PRC tax purposes, of expense deductions recorded by Vimicro Sky-Vision, which could in turn increase its tax liabilities. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may impose late payment fees, fines, or revocation of business licenses and other penalties on Vimicro Sky-Vision for underpaid taxes. Our net income may be adversely affected if tax liabilities of Vimicro Sky-Vision increase or if Vimicro Sky-Vision is found to be subject to late payment fees or other penalties. We face uncertainty with respect to the indirect transfer of equity interests in PRC on-shore entities. Pursuant to the Circular on Strengthening the Administration of Enterprise Income Tax on Non-resident Enterprises’ Share Transfer, or Circular 698, issued by the SAT, effective as of January 1, 2008, any foreign investor indirectly transferring equity interests in a Chinese resident enterprise by selling the shares in an offshore holding company (which is located in a jurisdiction where the effective tax burden is less than 12.5% or where the offshore income of its residents is not taxable) must provide the PRC tax authority in charge of that Chinese resident enterprise with the relevant information within 30 days of the transfer. Where a foreign investor indirectly transfers equity interests in a Chinese resident enterprise through any “abusive use of organizational form” and there are no reasonable commercial purposes for such form with the result that the corporate income tax liability is avoided, the PRC tax authorities shall have the power to reassess the nature of the equity transfer in accordance with the “substance-over-form” principle and deny the existence of an offshore holding company that is used for abusive tax planning purposes. In that case, the indirect equity transfer will be viewed as a direct transfer. Therefore, the capital gain derived from the indirect transfer will be subject to PRC withholding tax at 10%. “Income derived from equity transfers” as mentioned in this circular refers to income derived by nonresident enterprises from direct or indirect transfers of equity interest in China resident enterprises, excluding shares in Chinese resident enterprises that are bought and sold openly on the stock exchange. While the term “indirectly transfer” is not defined, we understand that the relevant PRC tax authorities have broad discretion in requesting for information over a wide range of foreign entities having no direct contact with China. Meanwhile, there have been no formal declarations with regard to the interpretation and implementation of rules relating to the “abusive use of organizational form” and “reasonable commercial purpose.” As a result, in the event that any transaction we engage is deemed as an “indirect transfer” that is subject to Circular 698, we may be subject to additional compliance requirements and tax burdens, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks. Our business could be adversely affected by swine flu, avian flu, SARS or another epidemic or outbreak on the economic and business climate. In 2009, an outbreak of swine flu occurred in various countries, including China. Any outbreak of swine flu, avian flu, or another epidemic in China may have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. For instance, health or other government regulations may require temporary closure of our offices, which will severely disrupt our business operations. 25 Table of Contents Our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is not permitted to be subject to inspection by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and investors may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the SEC, as an auditor of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or the PCAOB, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditor is located in China, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the PRC authorities, our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is currently not inspected by the PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of independent registered public accounting firms operating in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures and quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of benefits of PCAOB inspections. Proceedings instituted recently by the SEC against five PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In December 2012, the SEC instituted proceedings under Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the SEC’s Rules of Practice against five PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, alleging that these firms had violated U.S. securities laws and the SEC’s rules and regulations thereunder by failing to provide to the SEC the firms’ work papers related to their audits of certain PRC-based companies that are publicly traded in the United States. Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) grants the SEC the authority to deny to any person, temporarily or permanently, the ability to practice before the SEC who is found by the SEC, after notice and opportunity for a hearing, to have willfully violated any such laws or rules and regulations. On January 22, 2014, an initial administrative law decision was issued, sanctioning four of these accounting firms and suspending them from practicing before the SEC for a period of six months. The sanction will not take effect until there is an order of effectiveness issued by the SEC. The accounting firms involved have the ability to appeal and if appealed, the sanction will not become effective until after a full appeal process is concluded and a final decision is issued by the SEC. While we cannot predict the outcome of the SEC’s proceedings, if our independent registered public accounting firm is denied, temporarily or permanently, the ability to practice before the SEC, and we are unable to find in a timely manner another registered public accounting firm which can audit and issue a report on our financial statements, our financial statements could be determined to not be in compliance with the requirements for financial statements of public companies with a class of securities registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. Such a determination could ultimately lead to the delisting of our ADSs from the NASDAQ Global Market, which event would effectively terminate the trading market for our ADSs in the United States, and/or to the SEC’s revoking the registration of our ADSs under the Exchange Act pursuant to Section 12(j) thereof, in which event broker-dealers thereafter would be prohibited from effecting transactions in, or inducing the purchase or sale of, our ADSs in the United States. Risks Related to the Shares and ADSs We believe we were a passive foreign investment company for the taxable year ended December 31, 2013, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to United States Holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares. Based on the market price of our ADSs and the value and composition of our assets, we believe we were a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes for the taxable year ended December 31, 2013. In addition, it is likely one or more of our subsidiaries were also PFICs for such year. A non-United States corporation will be a PFIC for any taxable year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for such year is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets) during such year is attributable to assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income. We must make a separate determination after the close of each taxable year as to whether we were a PFIC for that year. Because the value of our assets for purposes of the PFIC test will generally be determined by reference to the market price of our ADSs or ordinary shares, our PFIC status will depend in large part on the market price of the ADSs or ordinary shares, which may fluctuate significantly. Because we believe we were a PFIC for the taxable year ended December 31, 2013, certain adverse United States federal income tax consequences could apply to U.S. Holders (as defined in “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation”) of our ADSs or ordinary shares with respect to any “excess distribution” received from us and any gain from a sale or other disposition of the ADSs or ordinary shares. See “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company.” 26 Table of Contents The market price for our ADSs may be volatile. The market price for our ADSs is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results and changes or revisions of our expected results; · changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; · conditions in the PC camera and video surveillance markets; · changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other semiconductor companies; · announcements by us or our competitors of new products, acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · addition or departure of our key personnel; · fluctuations of exchange rates between the RMB, the U.S. dollar and the Hong Kong dollar; · litigation related to our intellectual property; · release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares or ADSs; and · sales or perceived potential sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. In October 2012, we received a notification from the NASDAQ Stock Market, indicating that the minimum bid price of our ADS had been below $1.00 per ADS for 30 consecutive business days and as a result, we were not in compliance with the minimum bid price requirement for continued listing set forth in NASDAQ Listing Rule 5450(a)(1). Under NASDAQ Listing Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), we had a grace period of 180 calendar days, within which to regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule. We regained compliance on November 1, 2012 by meeting or exceeding $1.00 per ADS for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. We actively monitor the price of its ADSs and will consider available options, including, but not limited to, changing the ADS ratio, to regain compliance with the continued listing standards of the NASDAQ. If we are unable to comply with the continued listing standards of the NASDAQ Stock Market, we would not be able to remain listed on that stock exchange which would have a material adverse effect on the price of our ADSs. We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional ADSs or other equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. We may require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue, the performance of video surveillance projects and construction of office buildings. If our resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot assure our existing shareholders that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Substantial future sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Additional sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. If our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our ADSs, including those issued upon the exercise of outstanding options, in the public market, the market price of our ADSs could fall. Such sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. If any existing shareholder or shareholders sell a substantial amount of ordinary shares, the prevailing market price for our ADSs could be adversely affected. 27 Table of Contents Holders of our ADSs may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our ordinary shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise their right to vote. Except as described in this annual report on Form 20-F and in the deposit agreement, holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the shares evidenced by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs will appoint the depositary or its nominee as their representative to exercise the voting rights attaching to the shares represented by the ADSs. You may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote, and it is possible that you, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings and you may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available to you. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary bank will not make rights available to you unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act or exempt from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective and we may not be able to establish a necessary exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute such property and you will not receive such distribution. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. Your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law, conduct a substantial portion of our operations in China and the majority of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and conduct a substantial portion of our operations in China through Vimicro China. A majority of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States and a substantial portion of their assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state and it is uncertain whether such Cayman Islands or PRC courts would impose liabilities in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or the PRC against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests as a shareholder, as Cayman Islands law provides significantly less protection to shareholders when compared to the laws of the U.S. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, as amended and restated from time to time, and by the Companies Law (2013 Revision) and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against our directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and provides significantly less protection to investors. In addition, shareholders of Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States. As a result, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in actions against the management, directors or our controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States, and our ability to protect our interests if we are harmed in a manner that would otherwise enable us to sue in a United States federal court may be limited. 28 Table of Contents Although publicly traded, the trading market in our common stock has been substantially less liquid than the average trading market for a stock quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market and this low trading volume may adversely affect the price of our common stock. We completed our initial public offering on November 18, 2005. On November 15, 2005, we listed our ADSs on the NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol “VIMC.” The trading market in our common stock has been substantially less liquid than the average trading market for companies quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market. Limited trading volume will subject our shares of common stock to greater price volatility and may make it difficult for you to sell your shares of common stock at a price that is attractive to you. Provisions of our stockholder rights plan could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our shareholders, and could make it more difficult for shareholders to change management. In December 2008, we adopted a shareholder rights plan. Although the rights plan will not prevent a takeover, it is intended to encourage anyone seeking to acquire our company to negotiate with our board of directors prior to attempting a takeover by potentially diluting an acquirer’s ownership interest significantly in our outstanding capital stock. The existence of the rights plan may also discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our ADSs. We have incurred and will continue to incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we have incurred and will continue to incur a significantly higher level of legal, accounting and other expenses than we did as a private company. We have incurred and will continue to incur costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the NASDAQ Stock Market, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect these new rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these new rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. 