ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS Our business faces certain risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think as immaterial, may also impair our business. If any of the events anticipated by the risks described below or elsewhere in this report occur, our results of operations and financial conditions could be adversely affected. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business We have an operating history with significant losses and expect losses to continue for the foreseeable future. The Company has experienced operating losses in all years since its inception. Our future operating results will depend on many factors, both in and out of our control, including the ability to increase and sustain demand for and acceptance of our products, the level of our competition, and our ability to attract and maintain key management and employees. We have incurred a significant operating loss during the year ended December 31, 2010 of $19.5 million. As a result, at December 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of $38.6 million. Our revenues have not been sufficient to sustain our operations. Our profitability will require the successful commercialization of our current Celsius® product line. No assurances can be given when this will occur or that we will ever be profitable. We require additional capital, which at present has not been available to us. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we reduced overhead with a view to allow the Company to sustain its operations at a break-even or profitable level. We believe that our existing cash on hand and the $1.0 million available line of credit will enable us to fund our operations at our retooled level through 2011. Our current cash position allows us to undertake only limited marketing efforts without additional financing. However, we have not been able to secure additional financing on commercially reasonable terms or otherwise. Even if we are ultimately able to raise capital through equity or debt financings, the interest of existing shareholders in our company will likely be diluted, and the securities we issue may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our common stock or may otherwise materially and adver sely affect the holdings or rights of our existing shareholders. Without additional financing we may not be able to successfully market our products, and our business, results of operations and financial condition will likely be adversely affected. 9 We are currently only undertaking limited marketing efforts. Because of our current capital constraints, we have significantly reduced and limited our marketing efforts. We cannot estimate the effects of reducing and limiting our marketing efforts on our total sales volume, which may be materially adverse. We rely on third party co-packers to manufacture our products. If we are unable to maintain good relationships with our co-packers and/or their ability to manufacture our products becomes constrained or unavailable to us, our business could suffer. We do not directly manufacture our products, but instead outsource such manufacturing to established third party co-packers. These third party co-packers may not be able to fulfill our demand as it arises, could begin to charge rates that make using their services cost inefficient or may simply not be able to or willing to provide their services to us on a timely basis or at all. In the event of any disruption or delay, whether caused by a rift in our relationship or the inability of our co-packers to manufacture our products as required, we would need to secure the services of alternative co-packers. We may be unable to procure alternative packing facilities at commercially reasonable rates and/or within a reasonably short time period and any such transition could be costly. In such case, our business, financial condi tion and results of operations would be adversely affected. We rely on distributors to distribute our products in the DSD sales channel. If we are unable to secure such distributors and/or we are unable to maintain good relationships with our existing distributors, our business could suffer. We distribute Celsius® in the DSD sales channel by entering into agreements with direct-to-store delivery distributors having established sales, marketing and distribution organizations. Many of our distributors are affiliated with and manufacture and/or distribute other beverage products. In many cases, such products compete directly with our products. The marketing efforts of our distributors are important for our success. If Celsius® proves to be less attractive to our distributors and/or if we fail to attract distributors, and/or our distributors do not market and promote our products with greater focus in preference to the products of our competitors, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our customers are material to our success. If we are unable to maintain good relationships with our existing customers, our business could suffer. Unilateral decisions could be taken by our distributors, grocery chains, convenience chains, drug stores, nutrition stores, mass merchants, club warehouses and other customers to discontinue carrying all or any of our products that they are carrying at any time, which could cause our business to suffer. Increases In cost or shortages of raw materials or increases in costs of co-packing could harm our business. The principal raw materials used by us are flavors and ingredient blends as well as aluminum cans, the prices of which are subject to fluctuations. We are uncertain whether the prices of any of the above or any other raw materials or ingredients we utilize will rise in the future and whether we will be able to pass any of such increases on to our customers. We do not use hedging agreements or alternative instruments to manage the risks associated with securing sufficient ingredients or raw materials. In addition, some of these raw materials, such as our distinctive sleek 12 ounce can, are available from a single or a limited number of suppliers. As alternative sources of supply may not be available, any interruption in the supply of such raw materials might materially harm us. Our failure to accurately estimate demand for our products could adversely affect our business and financial results. We may not correctly estimate demand for our products. If we materially underestimate demand for our products and are unable to secure sufficient ingredients or raw materials, we might not be able to satisfy demand on a short-term basis, in which case our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We depend upon our trademarks and proprietary rights, and any failure to protect our intellectual property rights or any claims that we are infringing upon the rights of others may adversely affect our competitive position. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to protect our current and future brands and products and to defend our intellectual property rights. We cannot be sure that trademarks will be issued with respect to any future trademark applications or that our competitors will not challenge, invalidate or circumvent any existing or future trademarks issued to, or licensed by, us. Our products are manufactured using our proprietary blends of ingredients. These blends are created by third-party suppliers to our specifications and then supplied to our co-packers. Although all of the third parties in our supply and manufacture chain execute confidentiality agreements, there can be no assurance that our trade secrets, including our proprietary ingredient blends will not become known to competitors. 10 We believe that our competitors, many of whom are more established, and have greater financial and personnel resources than we do, may be able to replicate or reverse engineer our processes, brands, flavors, or our products in a manner that could circumvent our protective safeguards. Therefore, we cannot give you any assurance that our confidential business information will remain proprietary. Any such loss of confidentiality could diminish or eliminate any competitive advantage provided by our proprietary information. We may incur material losses as a result of product recall and product liability. We may be liable if the consumption of any of our products causes injury, illness or death. We also may be required to recall some of our products if they become contaminated or are damaged or mislabeled. A significant product liability judgment against us, or a widespread product recall, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The amount of the insurance we carry is limited, and that insurance is subject to certain exclusions and may or may not be adequate. Our lack of product diversification and inability to timely introduce new or alternative products could cause us to cease operations. Our business is centered on Celsius®. The risks associated with focusing on a limited product line are substantial. If consumers do not accept our products or if there is a general decline in market demand for, or any significant decrease in, the consumption of functional beverages, we are not financially or operationally capable of introducing alternative products within a short time frame. As a result, such lack of acceptance or market demand decline could cause us to cease operations. We are dependent on our key executives and employees and the loss of any of their services could materially adversely affect us which may have a material adverse effect on our Company. Our future success will depend substantially upon the abilities of, and personal relationships developed by a limited number of key executives and employees, including Stephen C. Haley, our Chief Executive Officer, President and Chairman of the Board, Geary W. Cotton, our Chief Financial Officer and Irina Lorenzi, our Innovations Vice President. The loss of the services of Mr. Haley, Mr. Cotton, Ms. Lorenzi or any other key employee could materially adversely affect our business and our prospects for the future. We do not have key person insurance on the lives of such individuals and the loss of any of their services could materially adversely affect us. We are dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified technical, sales and managerial personnel. Our future success depends in part on our continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, sales and managerial personnel. Competition for such personnel in the beverage industry is intense and we may not be able to retain our key managerial, sales and technical employees or attract and retain additional highly qualified technical, sales and managerial personnel in the future. Any inability to attract and retain the necessary technical, sales and managerial personnel could materially adversely affect us. The FDA has not passed on the efficacy of our products or the accuracy of any claim we make related to our products. Although six independent clinical studies have been conducted relating to the calorie-burning and related effects of our products, the results of these studies have not been submitted to or reviewed by the FDA. Further, the FDA has not passed on the efficacy of any of our products nor has it reviewed or passed on any claims we make related to our products, including the claim that our products aid consumers in burning calories or enhancing their metabolism. Risk Factors Relating to Our Industry We are subject to significant competition in the beverage industry. The beverage industry is highly competitive. The principal areas of competition are pricing, packaging, distribution channel penetration, development of new products and flavors and marketing campaigns. Our products compete with a wide range of drinks produced by a relatively large number of manufacturers, most of which have substantially greater financial, marketing and distribution resources and name recognition than we do. 11 Important factors affecting our ability to compete successfully include the taste and flavor of our products, trade and consumer promotions, rapid and effective development of new, unique cutting edge products, attractive and different packaging, branded product advertising and pricing. Our products compete with all liquid refreshments and with products of much larger and substantially better financed competitors, including the products of numerous nationally and internationally known producers, such as The Coca Cola Company, Dr. Pepper Snapple Group, PepsiCo, Inc., Nestle, Waters North America, Inc., Hansen Natural Corp. and Red Bull. We also compete with companies that are smaller or primarily local in operation. Our products also compete with private label brands such as those carried by supermarket chains, convenience store ch ains, drug store chains, mass merchants and club warehouses. There can be no assurance that we will compete successfully in the functional beverage industry. The failure to do so would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We compete in an industry that is brand-conscious, so brand name recognition and acceptance of our products are critical to our success and significant marketing and advertising could be needed to achieve and sustain brand recognition. Our business is substantially dependent upon awareness and market acceptance of our products and brands by our targeted consumers. Our business depends on acceptance by our independent distributors of our brand as one that has the potential to provide incremental sales growth rather than reduce distributors’ existing beverage sales. The development of brand awareness and market acceptance is likely to require significant marketing and advertising expenditures. There can be no assurance that Celsius® will achieve and maintain satisfactory levels of acceptance by independent distributors and retail consumers. Any failure of Celsius® brand to maintain or increase acceptance or market penetration would likely have a material adverse effect on business, financial condition and results of operations. Our sales are affected by seasonality. As is typical in the beverage industry, our sales are seasonal. Our highest sales volumes generally occur in the second and third quarters, which correspond to the warmer months of the year in our major markets. Consumer demand for our products is also affected by weather conditions. Cool, wet spring or summer weather could result in decreased sales of our beverages and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business is subject to many regulations and noncompliance is costly. The production, marketing and sale of our beverage products are subject to the rules and regulations of various federal, state and local health agencies. If a regulatory authority finds that a current or future product or production run is not in compliance with any of these regulations, we may be fined, or production may be stopped, thus adversely affecting our financial conditions and operations. Similarly, any adverse publicity associated with any noncompliance may damage our reputation and our ability to successfully market our products. Furthermore, the rules and regulations are subject to change from time to time and while we closely monitor developments in this area, we have no way of anticipating whether changes in these rules and regulations will impact our business adversely. Additional or revised regulatory requirements , whether labeling, environmental, tax or otherwise, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 