ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Overview Below are some of the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those presented in our forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face but do represent those risks and uncertainties that we believe are material to our business, operating results, prospects, and financial condition. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may harm our business. Risks Related to Investing in Us There is no public trading market for stockholders’ shares; therefore, it will be difficult for them to sell their shares. There is no current public trading market for our shares and we have no current plans to apply for listing on any public securities market. Our charter also prohibits the ownership of more than 9.8% in value of our outstanding shares, or more than 9.8% (in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the aggregate of our outstanding common shares, unless exempted by our board of directors, which may inhibit large investors from desiring to purchase stockholders’ shares. In addition, we have adopted a share redemption plan, but we are not permitted to make any redemptions under the plan (except in cases of death or disability) until our Mahrt Loan has been reduced to a loan-to-collateral-value ratio of less than 40% and we have attained a fixed-charge coverage ratio of greater than 1.05:1.00. Once we are able to allow share redemptions under our share redemption plan, the plan includes numerous restrictions that will limit stockholders’ ability to sell their shares. Our board is also free to amend or terminate the plan upon 30 days’ notice after our offering is effective. Therefore, it will be difficult for stockholders to sell their shares promptly or at all. If stockholders are able to sell their shares, they will likely have to sell them at a substantial discount to their public offering price. It is also likely that a stockholder’s shares will not be accepted as the primary collateral for a loan. Stockholders should purchase our shares only as a long-term investment because of the illiquid nature of the shares. We have a very limited operating history, which makes our future performance and the performance of a stockholder’s investment difficult to predict. We have a very limited operating history. We were incorporated in September 2005, commenced operations in July 2007 and completed our first and only timberland investment in October 2007. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, our operations resulted in an operating loss of approximately $7.9 million, $13.8 million, and $4.4 million, respectively, and a net loss of approximately $19.9 million, $53.3 million, and $17.3 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had an accumulated stockholders’ deficit of approximately $91.2 million and $71.3 million, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2009, cash provided by operations was approximately $5.0 million. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, cash used in operations was approximately $6.6 million and $3.4 million, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, we incurred interest expense on our indebtedness of approximately $10.0 million, $42.3 million, and $13.7 million, respectively, and accrued dividends on our preferred stock of approximately $3.6 million, $3.0 million, and $0.6 million, respectively. See “Selected Financial Data.” Our lack of operating history significantly increases the risk and uncertainty investors face in making an investment in our shares, including related to our ability to pay distributions in the future. Stockholders should not rely upon the past performance of other Wells-sponsored real estate programs. Such past performance was not related to the ownership of timberland property and would not predict our future results. If we are unable to find suitable investments, we may not be able to achieve our investment objectives or pay distributions. While we are investing the proceeds of our Public Offerings, the continuing high demand for the type of properties we desire to acquire may cause any distributions and the long-term returns of our investors to be lower 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements than they otherwise would. We believe the current market for timberland properties is extremely competitive. We will be competing for these timberland investments with other entities, including traditional corporations and REITs, forestry products companies, real estate limited partnerships, pension funds and their advisors, bank and insurance company investment accounts, individuals and other entities. Many of our competitors have more experience, greater financial resources, and a greater ability to borrow funds to acquire properties than we do. The greater the number of entities and resources competing for timberland properties, the higher the acquisition prices of these properties will be, which could reduce our profitability and our ability to pay distributions to stockholders. We cannot be sure that our advisor will be successful in obtaining suitable investments on financially attractive terms or that, if our advisor makes investments on our behalf, our objectives will be achieved. The more money we raise in our Public Offerings, the greater will be our challenge to invest all of the net offering proceeds on attractive terms. If we, through our advisor, are unable to find suitable investments in properties promptly, we will hold the proceeds from our Public Offerings in an interest-bearing account or invest the proceeds in short-term, investment-grade investments and may, ultimately, liquidate. Delays we encounter in the selection and acquisition of properties would likely limit our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders and reduce our stockholders’ overall returns. We have completed only one timberland acquisition and have not yet identified any additional properties that we will purchase with the proceeds of our Public Offerings, which makes a stockholder’s investment more speculative. We have completed only one timberland acquisition and have not yet identified any additional properties that we will make with the proceeds of our Public Offerings. Our ability to identify well-performing properties and achieve our investment objectives depends upon the performance of our advisor in the acquisition of our investments and the determination of any financing arrangements. The large size of our Follow-On Offering increases the challenges that our advisor will face in investing our net offering proceeds promptly in attractive properties, and the continuing high demand for the type of properties we desire to purchase increases the risk that we may pay too much for the properties that we do purchase. Because of the illiquid nature of our shares, even if we disclose information about our potential investments before we make them, it will be difficult for stockholders to sell their shares promptly or at all. We are substantially dependent on our business relationships with MeadWestvaco and its affiliated entities, and our continued success will depend on their economic performance. We have entered into two agreements in connection with our acquisition of the Mahrt Timberland: a master stumpage agreement with a subsidiary of MeadWestvaco and a fiber supply agreement with MeadWestvaco and a subsidiary. We refer to these agreements collectively as the timber agreements. The timber agreements provide that we will sell specified amounts of timber to a subsidiary of MeadWestvaco, subject to market pricing adjustments. The timber agreements are intended to ensure a long-term source of supply of wood fiber products for MeadWestvaco in order to meet its paperboard and lumber production requirements at specified mills and provide us with a reliable consumer for the wood products from the Mahrt Timberland. Our financial performance is substantially dependent on the economic performance of MeadWestvaco and its affiliates as consumers of our wood products. Approximately 46% of our revenue in 2009 was derived from these timber agreements. Therefore, our business and financial condition may be negatively and adversely impacted if the financial performance of MeadWestvaco suffers. If we are unable to raise substantial funds, we will be limited in the number and type of investments we may make, and the value of a stockholder’s investment in us will fluctuate with the performance of the specific properties we acquire. Our Follow-On Offering is being made on a “best efforts” basis, whereby the brokers participating in the offering are only required to use their best efforts to sell our shares and have no firm commitment or obligation to 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements purchase any of the shares. As a result, the amount of proceeds we raise in our Follow-On Offering may be substantially less than the amount we would need to achieve a broadly diversified timberland property portfolio. If we are unable to raise substantial funds, we will make fewer investments, resulting in less diversification in terms of the number of investments owned, the geographic regions in which our properties are located, and the species and ages of the timber located on those properties. In that case, the likelihood of our profitability being affected by the performance of any one of our properties will increase. Additionally, we are not limited in the number or size of our properties or the percentage of net proceeds we may dedicate to a single property. A stockholder’s investment in our shares will be subject to greater risk to the extent that we lack a diversified portfolio of timberland properties. We expect our real estate investments to be concentrated in timberland properties, making us more vulnerable economically than if our investments were diversified. We expect to invest primarily in real estate. Within the real estate industry, we intend to acquire and own timberland properties. We are subject to risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate. The risks resulting from a lack of diversification become even greater as a result of our current business strategy to invest primarily, if not exclusively, in timberland properties. A downturn in the real estate industry generally or the timber or forest products industries specifically could reduce the value of our properties. A downturn in the timber or forest products industries also could prevent our customers from making payments to us and, consequently, would prevent us from meeting debt service obligations or making distributions to our stockholders. The risks we face may be more pronounced than if we diversified our investments outside real estate or outside timberland properties. We have not paid any cash distributions to date to our stockholders as a result of restrictions resulting from our credit agreements. Once we are able to make cash distributions, our cash distributions are not guaranteed and may fluctuate. As of the date of this report, we have not paid any cash distributions. If we do make distributions to our stockholders, the actual amount and timing of distributions will be determined by our board of directors in its discretion and typically will depend upon the amount of funds available for distribution, which will depend on items such as current and projected cash requirements, tax considerations and restrictive covenants imposed on us by our credit agreements. As a result, our distribution rate and payment frequency may vary from time to time, and we may not make any distributions until we attain certain financial performance measures under the Mahrt Loan. Our long-term strategy is to fund the payment of quarterly distributions to our stockholders entirely from our cash flow from operations. However, during the early stages of our operations, we may need to borrow funds to make cash distributions. In the event that we are unable to consistently fund quarterly distributions to stockholders entirely from our cash flows from operations, the value of a stockholder’s shares upon the possible listing of our stock, the sale of our assets or any other liquidity event may be reduced. If we pay distributions from sources other than our cash flow from operations, we will have fewer funds available for investments and a stockholder’s overall return may be reduced. Our organizational documents permit us to pay distributions from any source. If we fund distributions from financings or the net proceeds from our Public Offerings, we will have fewer funds available for investment in timberland and a stockholder’s overall return may be reduced. We expect to have little, if any, cash flow from operations available for distribution until we make substantial investments. Further, because we may receive income at various times during our fiscal year and because we may need cash flow from operations during a particular period to fund expenses, we expect that at least during the early stages of our development and from time to time during our operational stage, we will declare distributions in anticipation of cash flow that we expect to receive during a later period and we will pay these distributions in advance of our actual receipt of these funds. In these instances, we expect to look to third-party borrowings to fund our distributions. We may also fund such distributions from advances from our advisor or sponsors or from our advisor’s deferral of its fees under the Advisory Agreement. 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If we seek to internalize our management functions, the percentage of our outstanding common stock owned by our other stockholders could be reduced, and we could incur other significant costs associated with the internalization. At some point in the future, we may consider internalizing the functions performed for us by our advisor and its affiliates particularly if we seek to list our shares on a national securities exchange as a way of providing our stockholders with liquidity. The method by which we could internalize these functions could take many forms. We may hire our own group of executives and other employees or we may acquire our advisor and its affiliates or their respective assets including their existing workforce. The method or cost of internalizing cannot be determined or estimated at this time. Further, if we acquired our advisor and its affiliates, the amount and type of consideration that we would pay in this type of transaction could vary greatly. For example, we could acquire the advisor and its affiliates through a merger in which we issued shares of our common stock for all of the outstanding common stock or assets of these entities. Issuing shares of our common stock would reduce the percentage of our outstanding shares owned by stockholders prior to any transaction. Further, issuing promissory notes as full or partial payment of the consideration in the transaction could reduce our net income and our ability to make distributions to stockholders, particularly if internalizing these functions does not produce any cost savings. If we were to internalize our management functions, we may not realize the perceived benefits, we may not be able to properly integrate a new staff of managers and employees or we may not be able to effectively replicate the services provided previously by our advisor or its affiliates. Internalization transactions involving the acquisition of advisors or their affiliates have also, in some cases, been the subject of litigation. Even if these claims are without merit, we could be forced to spend significant amounts of money defending claims, which would reduce the amount of funds available to us to invest in properties or other investments or to pay distributions. If we were to internalize our management functions, these factors could cause such internalization to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions. The loss of or inability to obtain key personnel of our advisor or its manager could delay or hinder implementation of our investment strategies, which could limit our ability to make distributions and decrease the value of stockholders’ investments. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the contributions of Leo F. Wells, III, Douglas P. Williams, Randall D. Fretz, Jess E. Jarratt, Brian M. Davis, Troy A. Harris, John C. Iverson, and Don L. Warden, each of whom are key personnel of our advisor or Wells Capital, its manager, and would be difficult to replace. We do not have employment agreements with any of these key personnel, and we cannot guarantee that such persons will remain affiliated with us. If any of these key personnel were to cease their affiliation with our advisor or its manager, our operating results could suffer. We do not intend to maintain key-person life insurance on any person. We believe that our future success depends, in large part, upon the ability of our advisor and its manager to retain highly skilled managerial, operational, and marketing personnel. Competition for retention of our advisor’s and its manager’s existing skilled personnel is intense, and our advisor and its manager may be unsuccessful in attracting and retaining such skilled personnel. Further, we intend to establish strategic relationships with firms that have special expertise in certain services or as to timberland properties in certain geographic regions. Maintaining such relationships will be important for us to effectively compete with other investors for properties in such regions. We may be unsuccessful in attracting and retaining such relationships. If our advisor or its manager loses or is unable to obtain the services of highly skilled personnel or does not establish or maintain appropriate strategic relationships, our ability to implement our investment strategies could be delayed or hindered, and the value of stockholders’ investments may decline. Our operating performance could suffer if Wells Capital incurs significant losses, including those losses that may result from being the general partner of other entities. Our advisor, Wells TIMO, is a newly formed entity that currently has only ten employees and will rely upon the employees of its manager, Wells Capital, to perform many of the services our advisor is required to perform for us. We are dependent on our advisor to select our investments and conduct our operations; thus, adverse changes in the financial health of Wells Capital could hinder our advisor’s ability to successfully manage our operations 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements and our portfolio of investments. As a general partner to many Wells-sponsored programs, Wells Capital may have contingent liability for the obligations of such partnerships. Enforcement of such obligations against Wells Capital could result in a substantial reduction of its net worth. If such liabilities affected the level of services that Wells Capital could provide on behalf of Wells TIMO, our operations and financial performance could suffer as well, which would limit our ability to make distributions and decrease the value of stockholders’ investments. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to recover claims against our independent directors are limited, which could reduce stockholders’ and our recovery against them if they negligently cause us to incur losses. Maryland law provides that a director has no liability in that capacity if he performs his duties in good faith, in a manner he reasonably believes to be in our best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. Our charter provides generally that no independent director will be liable to us or our stockholders for monetary damages and that we will indemnify them for losses unless they are grossly negligent or engage in willful misconduct. These rights to indemnification and advancement of expenses vest immediately upon such independent director’s election. We will also indemnify our independent directors for losses related to alleged state or federal securities laws violations unless the allegations are not successfully adjudicated or dismissed with prejudice or unless a properly informed court of competent jurisdiction has not otherwise determined that indemnification should be made. As a result, our stockholders and we may have more limited rights against our independent directors than might otherwise exist under common law, which could reduce stockholders’ and our recovery from these persons if they act in a negligent manner. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our independent directors (as well as by our other directors, officers, employees, and agents) in some cases, which would decrease the cash otherwise available for distribution to our stockholders. Risks Related to Conflicts of Interest Our sponsor, Wells Capital, which is also the owner of our advisor, Wells TIMO, is the subject of litigation proceedings regarding Piedmont REIT, for which Wells Capital previously served as advisor. Should Wells Capital suffer a financial loss as a result of this litigation, the ability of our advisor, Wells TIMO, to manage our operations could be adversely impacted. On March 12, 2007, a stockholder of Piedmont REIT filed a putative class action and derivative complaint against Piedmont REIT, Wells Capital, and certain affiliates of Wells REF, which is the owner of Wells Capital. The complaint alleges violations of federal proxy rules and breaches of fiduciary duties in connection with the internalization transaction by Piedmont REIT. While the outcome of any litigation is uncertain, any financial loss incurred by our sponsor, Wells Capital, could impact our advisor, Wells TIMO, which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Wells Capital, and could adversely impact Wells TIMO’s ability to successfully manage our operations and our portfolio of investments. Wells Capital, its affiliates, and our officers will face competing demands on their time, and this may cause our operations and stockholders’ investments to suffer. We rely on Wells TIMO, our advisor, for the day-to-day operation of our business. Wells TIMO relies on the personnel of its parent company and manager, Wells Capital, to perform many of the services Wells TIMO is required to perform as our advisor. Wells Capital and its affiliates, including Leo F. Wells, III, our President and the President of Wells Capital; Douglas P. Williams, our Executive Vice President and the Senior Vice President of Wells Capital; and Randall D. Fretz, our Senior Vice President and the Senior Vice President of Wells Capital, have interests in other Wells programs and engage in other business activities, including providing advisory services to Wells Real Estate Investment Trust II, Inc. (“Wells REIT II”) and other Wells REF-sponsored real estate programs. As a result, they will have conflicts of interest in allocating their time among us and other Wells programs and activities in which they are involved. During times of intense activity in other programs and ventures, they may devote less time and fewer resources to our business than are necessary or appropriate to manage our business. If this occurs, the returns on our investments, and the value of stockholders’ investments, may decline. 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our officers and some of our directors face conflicts of interest related to the positions they hold with Wells Capital, its affiliates, and other Wells REF-sponsored programs, which could hinder our ability to successfully implement our business strategy and to generate returns to stockholders. Our executive officers and one of our directors, Jess E. Jarratt, are also officers and directors of Wells Capital, our dealer-manager and other affiliated entities and Wells REF-sponsored programs, and one of our independent directors, E. Nelson Mills, serves on the board of one other program advised by Wells Capital, the owner of our advisor. As a result, they owe fiduciary duties to these various entities and their stockholders and limited partners, which fiduciary duties may from time to time conflict with the fiduciary duties that they owe to us and our stockholders. Their loyalties to these other entities could result in actions or inactions that are detrimental to our business, which could hinder the implementation of our business strategy and our investment and operational opportunities. If we do not successfully implement our business strategy, we may be unable to generate the cash needed to make distributions to our stockholders and to maintain or increase the value of our assets. Wells TIMO and its affiliates, including our officers and one of our directors, will face conflicts of interest caused by compensation arrangements with us and other programs advised by Wells Capital, which could result in actions that are not in the long-term best interest of our stockholders. The amounts payable to Wells TIMO upon termination of the Advisory Agreement may also influence decisions about terminating Wells TIMO or our acquisition or disposition of investments. Under the Advisory Agreement between us, Wells Timberland OP and Wells TIMO and pursuant to the terms of the special units Wells TIMO owns in Wells Timberland OP, Wells TIMO is entitled to fees and other payments from us and Wells Timberland OP that are structured in a manner intended to provide incentives to Wells TIMO to perform in our best interest and in the best interest of our stockholders. However, because Wells TIMO does not maintain a significant equity interest in us and is entitled to receive substantial minimum compensation regardless of performance, its interests are not wholly aligned with those of our stockholders. As a result, these compensation arrangements could influence our advisor’s advice to us, as well as the judgment of the affiliates of Wells TIMO who serve as our officers or directors. Among other matters, the compensation arrangements could affect their judgment with respect to: • the continuation, renewal, or enforcement of our agreements with Wells TIMO and its affiliates, including the Advisory Agreement and the dealer-manager agreement; • Public Offerings of equity by us, which entitle WIS to dealer-manager fees and entitle Wells TIMO to increased asset management fees; • property sales, which entitle Wells TIMO to real estate commissions and possible success-based payments; • the valuation of our timberland properties, which determines the amount of the asset management fee payable to Wells TIMO and affects the likelihood of any success-based payments; • property acquisitions from third parties, which utilize proceeds from our Public Offerings, thereby increasing the likelihood of continued equity offerings and related fee income for WIS and Wells TIMO; • whether and when we seek to list our common stock on a national securities exchange, which listing could entitle Wells TIMO to a success-based payment but could also hinder its sales efforts for other programs if the price at which our shares trade is lower than the price at which we offered shares to the public; and • whether and when we seek to sell the company or our assets, which sale could entitle Wells TIMO to a success-based payment from Wells Timberland OP but could also hinder its sales efforts for other programs if the sales price for the company or its assets results in proceeds less than the amount needed to preserve our stockholders’ capital. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Wells TIMO will have considerable discretion with respect to the terms and timing of acquisition and disposition transactions. Considerations relating to its affiliates’ compensation from other programs could result in decisions that are not in the best interest of our stockholders, which could hurt our ability to pay distributions to stockholders or result in a decline in the value of stockholders’ investments. The fees we pay Wells TIMO under the Advisory Agreement and the amounts payable to Wells TIMO under the Wells Timberland OP partnership agreement were not determined on an arm’s-length basis and therefore may not be on the same terms as those we could negotiate with a third party. Because the Advisory Agreement must be renewed annually, the fees and other amounts that we pay to Wells TIMO may increase in future renewals. Our independent directors rely on information and recommendations provided by Wells TIMO to determine the fees and other amounts payable to Wells TIMO and its affiliates pursuant to the terms of the Advisory Agreement and the special units in Wells Timberland OP. As a result, these fees and payments cannot be viewed as having been determined on an arm’s-length basis and we cannot assure stockholders that an unaffiliated third party would not be willing and able to provide to us similar services at a lower price. Because the Advisory Agreement must be renewed on an annual basis, our independent directors may increase the fees and other amounts payable to Wells TIMO in future renewals. If the fees and other amounts we pay Wells TIMO are increased, our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders and make investments will be reduced. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure Our charter limits the number of shares a person may own, which may discourage a takeover that could otherwise result in a premium price to our stockholders. Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our directors, upon our qualification as a REIT, to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted by our board of directors, no person may own more than 9.8% in value of the aggregate of our outstanding shares, or more than 9.8% (in value or in shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the aggregate of our outstanding common shares. This restriction may have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of our company, including an extraordinary transaction (such as a merger, tender offer, or sale of all or substantially all of our assets) that might provide a premium price for holders of our common stock. Our charter permits our board of directors to issue stock with terms that may subordinate the rights of our common stockholders or discourage a third party from acquiring our company in a manner that could result in a premium price to our stockholders. Our board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued common stock or preferred stock and establish the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends and other distributions, qualifications and terms or conditions of redemption of any such stock. Thus, our board of directors could authorize the issuance of preferred stock with terms and conditions that could have priority as to distributions and amounts payable upon liquidation over the rights of the holders of our common stock. Such preferred stock could also have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of our company, including an extraordinary transaction (such as a merger, tender offer, or sale of all or substantially all of our assets) that might provide a premium price to holders of our common stock. Our charter includes a provision that may discourage a stockholder from launching a tender offer for shares of our common stock. Our charter requires that any tender offer made by a person, including any “mini-tender” offer, must comply with Regulation 14D of the Exchange Act, including the notice and disclosure requirements that would be applicable if the tender offer were for more than 5% of the shares. In addition, the offeror must provide notice to us of the tender offer at least ten business days before initiating the tender offer. If the offeror does not comply with these 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements requirements, we will have the right to repurchase that person’s shares of our stock and any shares of our stock acquired in such tender offer based on the repurchase provisions in our charter. In addition, the non-complying offeror shall be responsible for all of our expenses in connection with that stockholder’s noncompliance, and we may offset any such expenses against the amount paid by us for the repurchase of the shares. This provision of our charter may discourage a person from initiating a tender offer for shares of our stock and prevent a stockholder from receiving a premium price for his shares of our common stock in such a transaction. A stockholder’s investment return may be reduced if we are required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act; if we become an unregistered investment company, we could not continue our business. We do not intend to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. If we were obligated to register as an investment company, we would have to comply with a variety of substantive requirements under the Investment Company Act that impose, among other things: • limitations on capital structure; • restrictions on specified investments; • prohibitions on transactions with affiliates; and • compliance with reporting, record-keeping, voting, proxy disclosure, and other rules and regulations that would significantly increase our operating expenses. In order to maintain our exemption from regulation under the Investment Company Act, we must engage primarily in the business of buying real estate. If we are unable to invest a significant portion of the proceeds of offerings in properties, we may avoid being required to register as an investment company by temporarily investing any unused proceeds in government securities with low returns. This would reduce the cash available for distribution to investors and possibly lower stockholders’ returns. To maintain compliance with the Investment Company Act exemption, we may be unable to sell assets we would otherwise want to sell and may need to sell assets we would otherwise wish to retain. In addition, we may have to acquire additional income- or loss-generating assets that we might not otherwise have acquired or may have to forego opportunities to acquire interests in companies that we would otherwise want to acquire and which would be important to our investment strategy. If we were required to register as an investment company but failed to do so, we would be prohibited from engaging in our business, and criminal and civil actions could be brought against us. In addition, our contracts would be unenforceable unless a court required enforcement, and a court could appoint a receiver to take control of us and liquidate our business. Stockholders will have limited control over changes in our policies and operations, which increases the uncertainty and risks stockholders may face. Our board of directors determines our major policies, including our policies regarding financing, growth, debt capitalization, REIT qualification and distributions. Our board of directors may amend or revise these and other policies without a vote of the stockholders. Under the Maryland General Corporation Law and our charter, our stockholders have a right to vote only on limited matters. Our board’s broad discretion in setting policies and our stockholders’ inability to exert control over those policies increases the uncertainty and risks stockholders may face. Stockholders may not be able to sell their shares under the share redemption plan and, if they are able to sell their shares under the plan, they may not be able to recover the amount of their investments in our shares. Our board of directors has adopted a share redemption plan, but there are significant conditions and limitations that would limit stockholders’ ability to sell their shares under the plan. In addition, our board of directors may amend, suspend or terminate our share redemption plan upon 30 days’ notice and without stockholder approval. 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements As a result of the acquisition of the Mahrt Timberland, we are prohibited from redeeming any shares under our share redemption plan until we achieve certain financial performance measures under the terms of our indebtedness (except for redemptions sought within two years of the death or qualifying disability of the stockholder). Once we are able to allow share redemptions under our share redemption plan, generally, stockholders will have to have held their shares for at least one year in order to participate in our share redemption plan. We will limit the number of shares redeemed pursuant to our share redemption plan as follows: (1) during any calendar year, we will not redeem in excess of 5% of the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the prior calendar year; and (2) we may not redeem shares on any redemption date to the extent that such redemptions would cause the amount paid for redemptions (other than those following an investor’s death or qualifying disability) since the beginning of the then-current calendar year to exceed the sum of (x) the net proceeds from the sale of shares under our distribution reinvestment plan during such period and (y) any additional amounts reserved for such purpose by our board of directors. These limits might prevent us from accommodating all redemption requests made in any year. Initially, we will repurchase shares under our share redemption plan at $9.10 per share. The initial redemption price will remain fixed until one year after we complete our offering stage. Thereafter, we will redeem shares at a price equal to 95% of the estimated per share value of the shares, as estimated by our advisor or another firm chosen for that purpose. These restrictions will severely limit stockholders’ ability to sell their shares should they require liquidity and will limit their ability to recover the value they invested. The offering price was not established on an independent basis; the actual value of stockholder’s investments may be substantially less than what they pay. The offering price of the shares bears no relationship to our book or asset values or to any other established criteria for valuing shares. The board of directors considered the following factors in determining the offering price: • the range of offering prices of comparable corporations, including unlisted REITs; and • the recommendation of our dealer-manager. Because the offering price is not based upon any independent valuation, the offering price may not be indicative of the proceeds that stockholders would receive upon liquidation. Further, the offering price may be significantly more than the price at which the shares would trade if they were to be listed on an exchange or actively traded by broker/dealers. Because the dealer-manager is one of our affiliates, stockholders will not have the benefit of an independent review of our company or the prospectus customarily undertaken in underwritten offerings; the absence of an independent due diligence review increases the risks and uncertainty a stockholder faces. The dealer-manager, WIS, is one of our affiliates and will not make an independent review of our company or the offering. Accordingly, stockholders do not have the benefit of an independent review of the terms of our Follow-On Offering. Further, the due diligence investigation of our company by the dealer-manager cannot be considered to be an independent review and, therefore, may not be as meaningful as a review conducted by an unaffiliated broker/dealer. Stockholders’ interest in us will be diluted if we issue additional shares, which could reduce the overall value of stockholders’ investments. Investors in our Public Offerings do not have preemptive rights to any shares we issue in the future. Our charter authorizes us to issue one billion shares of stock, of which 900 million shares are designated as common stock and 100 million are designated as preferred stock. Our board of directors may amend our charter to increase the aggregate number of authorized shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have authority to issue without stockholder approval. After stockholder purchase in our Follow-On Offering, our 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements board may elect to (1) sell additional shares in these or future public offerings; (2) issue equity interests in private offerings; (3) issue shares of our common stock upon the exercise of the options we may grant to our independent directors or to employees of Wells TIMO or Wells Capital; (4) issue shares to our advisor, its successors or assigns, in payment of an outstanding fee obligation; or (5) issue shares of our common stock to sellers of properties we acquire in connection with an exchange of limited partnership interests of Wells Timberland OP. To the extent we issue additional equity interests after a stockholder’s purchase in our Follow-On Offering, your percentage ownership interest in us will be diluted. Further, depending upon the terms of such transactions, most notably the offering price per share, which may be less than the price paid per share in any offering under this prospectus, and the value of our properties, existing stockholders also may experience a dilution in the book value of their investment in us. Payment of fees to Wells TIMO and its affiliates will reduce cash available for investment and distribution and increases the risk that stockholders will not be able to recover the amount of their investment in our shares. Wells TIMO and its affiliates will perform services for us in connection with the offer and sale of our shares, the selection and acquisition of our investments, the management of our properties and the administration of our other investments. We will pay Wells TIMO and its affiliates substantial fees for these services. Payment of these fees will result in immediate dilution to the value of a stockholder’s investment and will reduce the amount of cash available for investment in properties or distribution to stockholders. As a result of these substantial fees, we expect that for each share sold in our Follow-On Offering, no more than $9.17 per share will be available for mandatory repayment of our indebtedness and for the purchase of properties, depending primarily upon the number of shares we sell and assuming all shares sold under our distribution reinvestment plan are sold for $9.55 per share. Wells TIMO, as the holder of the special units, also may be entitled to receive a distribution upon the sale of our properties and/or a payment in connection with the redemption of the special units upon the earlier to occur of specified events, including the listing of our shares on a national securities exchange or the termination of the Advisory Agreement. These payments to Wells TIMO increase the risk that the amount available for distribution to stockholders upon a liquidation of our portfolio would be less than the purchase price of the shares in our Public Offerings. Substantial up-front fees also increase the risk that stockholders will not be able to resell their shares at a profit, even if our shares are listed on a national securities exchange. Our designation and issuance of preferred stock may limit proceeds payable to the holders of common stock in the event we are liquidated or dissolved prior to the redemption of the preferred stock. We have issued, without stockholder approval, 32,128 shares of Series A preferred stock and 11,500 shares of Series B preferred stock. Dividends accrue on the shares of Series A preferred stock and Series B preferred stock daily at a rate of 8.5% per year. If we are liquidated or dissolved, the holders of the Series A and Series B preferred stock are each entitled to receive the issue price of $1,000 per share, plus any accrued and unpaid dividends, whether or not declared, before any payment may be made to the holders of our common stock. As a result, the amount of funds holders of our common stock would otherwise receive upon a liquidation or dissolution would be reduced in the event the Series A or Series B preferred shares had not been redeemed prior to such an event. Risks Related to Investments in Timberland We will be subject to the credit risk of our anticipated customers. The failure of any of our anticipated customers to make payments due to us under our supply agreements could reduce our distributions to our stockholders. We anticipate that the customers who agree to purchase our timber under supply contracts will range in credit quality from high to low. We will assume the full credit risk of these parties, as we will have no payment guarantees under the contract or insurance if one of these parties fails to make payments to us. While we intend to acquire timberland properties in well-developed and active timber markets with access to numerous customers, we may not be successful in this endeavor. Depending upon the location of the timberland properties we acquire 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements and the supply agreements we enter into, our supply agreements may be concentrated among a small number of customers. Even though we may have legal recourse under our contracts, we may not have any practical recourse to recover payments from some of our customers if they default on their obligations to us. Any bankruptcy or insolvency of our customers, or failure or delay by these parties to make payments to us under our agreements, would cause us to lose the revenue associated with these payments and could cause us to reduce the amount of distributions to our stockholders. Changes in demand for “higher-and-better use” property may reduce our anticipated land sale revenues. We anticipate that we will sell portions of our timberland property base from time to time in the event that we determine that certain properties have become more valuable for development, recreation, conservation and other uses than for growing timber, which we refer to as higher-and-better use, or HBU, property. A number of factors, including a slow-down in commercial or residential real estate development or a reduction in the availability of public funding for conservation projects, could reduce the demand for these properties and reduce any revenues that we could realize from our land sale program. Large-scale increases in the supply of timber may affect timber prices and reduce our revenues. Some governmental agencies, principally the U.S.D.A. Forest Service and the U.S. Department of the Interior’s Bureau of Land Management, own large amounts of timberland. If these agencies choose to sell more timber from their timberland holdings than they have been selling in recent years, timber prices could fall and our revenues could be reduced. Any large reduction in the revenues we expect to earn from our timberland investments may reduce the returns, if any, we are able to achieve for our stockholders. The cyclical nature of the forest products industry could impair our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our operating results will be affected by the cyclical nature of the forest products industry. Unlike other REITs that are parties to leases and other contracts providing for relatively stable payments over a period of years, our operating results will depend on prices for timber that can experience significant variation and have been historically volatile. Like other participants in the forest products industry, we have limited direct influence over the timing and extent of price changes for cellulose fiber, timber and wood products. Although some of the supply agreements we will enter into fix the price of our harvested timber for a period of time, these contracts may not protect us from the long-term effects of price declines and may restrict our ability to take advantage of price increases. The demand for timber and wood products is affected primarily by the level of new residential construction activity, the supply of manufactured timber products, including imports of timber products, and, to a lesser extent, repair and remodeling activity and other commercial and industrial uses. The demand for timber also is affected by the demand for wood chips in the pulp and paper markets and for hardwood in the furniture and other hardwood industries. The demand for cellulose fiber is related to the demand for disposable products such as diapers and feminine hygiene products. These activities are, in turn, subject to fluctuations due to, among other factors: • changes in domestic and international economic conditions; • interest and currency rates; • population growth and changing demographics; and • seasonal weather cycles (for example, dry summers and wet winters). Decreases in the level of residential construction activity generally reduce demand for logs and wood products. This can result in lower revenues, profits, and cash flows. In addition, increases in the supply of logs and wood 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements products, at both the local and national level, during favorable price environments also can lead to downward pressure on prices. Timber owners generally increase production volumes for logs and wood products during favorable price environments. Such increased production, however, when coupled with even modest declines in demand for these products in general, could lead to oversupply and lower prices. For example, the federal government owns a large amount of timberland. If the federal government chooses to sell more timber than it has been selling in recent years, then timber prices could fall. Additionally, wood products are subject to increasing competition from a variety of substitute products, including non-wood and engineered wood products. Oversupply can result in lower revenues, profits, and cash flows to us and could impair our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Uninsured losses relating to the timberland properties we acquire may reduce our stockholders’ returns. The volume and value of timber that can be harvested from the timberlands we acquire may be limited by natural disasters such as fire, hurricane, earthquake, insect infestation, drought, disease, ice storms, windstorms, flooding, and other weather conditions and natural disasters, as well as other causes such as theft, trespass, condemnation or other casualty. We do not intend to maintain insurance for any loss to our standing timber from natural disasters or other causes. Any funds used for such losses may reduce cash available for distributions to our stockholders. The forest products industry and the market for timberland properties are highly competitive, which could force us to pay higher prices for our properties or limit the amount of suitable timberland investments we are able to acquire and thereby reduce our profitability and the return on an investment in us. The forest products industry is highly competitive in terms of price and quality. We have a limited operating history and own only a single timberland investment. Many of our competitors, both domestic and international, have substantially greater financial and operating resources and are better able to absorb the risks of timberland investing. In recent years, the timberland investment business has experienced increasing competition for the purchase of timberland properties from both commercial and residential real estate developers as a result of urban and suburban expansion. We expect this trend to continue. Many real estate developers have substantially greater financial resources than our company. In addition, many developers tend to use high relative amounts of leverage to acquire development parcels, which we may not be willing or able to incur. Purchases of timberland parcels for development not only reduce the amount of suitable timberland investment properties, but also tend to separate larger, existing timberland properties into smaller units, which have reduced economies of scale and are less desirable for harvesting and the future marketability of the property for timber harvesting or other uses. Competition from real estate developers and others limits the amount of suitable timberland investments available for us to acquire, and any increase in the prices we expect to pay for timberland may reduce the returns, if any, we are able to achieve for our stockholders. Harvesting our timber may be subject to limitations which could impair our ability to receive income and make distributions to our stockholders. Weather conditions, timber growth cycles, property access limitations, and regulatory requirements associated with the protection of wildlife and water resources may restrict harvesting of timberlands as may other factors, including damage by fire, hurricane, earthquake, insect infestation, disease, prolonged drought, and other natural disasters. Furthermore, we may choose to invest in timberlands that are intermingled with sections of federal land managed by the U.S.D.A. Forest Service or other private owners. In many cases, access might be achieved only through a road or roads built across adjacent federal or private land. In order to access these intermingled timberlands, we would need to obtain either temporary or permanent access rights to these lands from time to time. Our revenue, net income, and cash flow from our operations will be dependent to a significant extent on the continued ability to harvest timber on our timberland at adequate levels and in a timely manner. 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We face possible liability for environmental clean up costs and wildlife protection laws related to the timberland properties we acquire, which could increase our costs and reduce our profitability and cash distributions to our stockholders. We will be subject to regulation under, among other laws, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, the National Environmental Policy Act, and the Endangered Species Act, as well as comparable state laws and regulations. Violations of various statutory and regulatory programs that apply to our operations could result in civil penalties; damages, including natural resource damages; remediation expenses; potential injunctions; cease-and-desist orders; and criminal penalties. We may engage in the following activities that are subject to regulation: • forestry activities, including harvesting, planting, and road building use and maintenance; • the generation of air emissions; • the discharge of industrial wastewater and storm water; and • the generation and disposal of both hazardous and nonhazardous wastes. Laws and regulations protecting the environment have generally become more stringent in recent years and could become more stringent in the future. Some environmental statutes impose strict liability, rendering a person liable for environmental damage without regard to the person’s negligence or fault. While timberland properties do not generally carry as high a risk of environmental contamination as certain other real estate assets such as industrial properties, we may acquire timberlands subject to environmental liabilities, such as cleanup of hazardous substance contamination and other existing or potential liabilities of which we are not aware, even after investigations of the properties. We may not be able to recover any of these liabilities from the sellers of these properties. The cost of these cleanups could therefore increase our operating costs and reduce our profitability and cash available to make distributions to our stockholders. The existence of contamination or liability also may materially impair our ability to use or sell an affected timberland property. The Endangered Species Act and comparable state laws protect species threatened with possible extinction. A number of species present on timberlands in the United States have been, and in the future may be, protected under these laws, including the northern spotted owl, marbled murrelet, bald eagle, several trout and salmon species in the Northwest; and the red-cockaded woodpecker, bald eagle, wood stork, red hill salamander, and the flatwoods salamander in the South. Protection of threatened and endangered species may include restrictions on timber harvesting, road building, and other forest practices on private, federal, and state land containing the affected species. The size of the area subject to restriction will vary depending on the protected species at issue, the time of year, and other factors, but can range from less than one acre to several thousand acres. We expect that environmental groups and interested individuals will intervene with increasing frequency in the regulatory processes in the states where we intend to seek to acquire timberland properties with the proceeds of our Public Offerings. For example, if we acquire timberland property in Washington State, we would be required to file a Forest Practice Application for each unit of timber to be harvested. These applications may be denied or restricted by the regulatory agency or appealed by other parties, including citizens’ groups. Environmental groups and interested individuals may also appeal individual forest practice applications or file petitions with the Forest Practices Board to challenge the regulations under which forest practices are approved. Appeals or actions of the regulatory agencies could delay or restrict timber harvest activities pursuant to these permits, and delays or harvest restrictions on a significant number of applications could result in increased costs. In addition to intervention in regulatory proceedings, interested groups and individuals may file or threaten to file lawsuits that seek to prevent us from implementing our operating plans. Any lawsuit or even a threatened lawsuit could delay harvesting on our timberlands. Among the remedies that could be enforced in a lawsuit is a judgment entirely preventing or restricting harvesting on a part of our targeted timberland properties. 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties and reduce distributions to our stockholders. Because timberland investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more timberland properties in our portfolio in response to changing economic, financial, and investment conditions is limited. The real estate market is affected by many factors that are beyond our control, including: • changes in international, national, regional, and local economic and market conditions; • changes in interest rates and in the availability, cost, and terms of debt financing; • changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances, and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies, and ordinances; • forestry costs associated with maintaining and managing timberland properties; • changes in operating expenses; and • fires, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, and other natural disasters as well as civil unrest, acts of war, and terrorism, each of which may result in uninsured losses. As part of our business plan and as necessary, we intend to sell portions of our timberland property holdings during opportunistic times. We plan on selling timberland to third parties who intend to put the timberland to a higher-and-better use and therefore may be willing to compensate us for the land in excess of prices we would typically receive if the land remained as timber-producing property. In acquiring a timberland property, however, and in entering into long-term supply agreements, we may agree to lock-out provisions that materially restrict us from selling that property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that property. These factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to market opportunities could result in lower distributions to our stockholders than would be available if we were able to quickly respond to such market opportunities. If we sell properties and provide financing to purchasers, defaults by the purchasers would decrease our cash flows and limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. In some instances we may sell our properties by providing financing to purchasers. When we provide financing to purchasers, we will bear the risk that the purchaser may default, which could negatively impact our cash distributions to stockholders. Even in the absence of a purchaser default, the distribution of the proceeds of sales to our stockholders, or our reinvestment of such proceeds in other assets, will be delayed until the promissory notes or other property we may accept upon a sale are actually paid, sold, refinanced, or otherwise disposed of. We may be unable to obtain accurate data on the volume and quality of the standing timber on a property that we intend to acquire, which may impair our ability to derive the anticipated benefits from the timberland property. The quality and reliability of data concerning timberland properties varies greatly. Professional foresters collect data on species, volumes, and quantities of timber on a particular property by conducting “cruises” through the property. During these cruises, foresters sample timber stands at specified intervals and locations that have been pre-determined by forest statisticians. A cruise that is poorly designed or executed can result in misleading data. In addition, errors in compiling the data may lead to erroneous estimates of the volume and quality of the timber on a particular property. The latest inventory data available at the time of a timberland transaction may be based on cruises that are more than a year old. Timberland cruises are time-consuming and expensive, and, as a result, are not usually conducted on an annual basis. Consequently, timber inventories are often updated without a cruise by subtracting out the volume of timber that was harvested (usually an accurate number) and by adding in the volume of estimated tree growth (usually a less accurate number than the removal number). We may not be able to require an adjustment to the property purchase price from the seller if a post-acquisition cruise reveals a significant difference in timber volumes or quality from the pre-acquisition data. If we are unable to obtain or 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements develop accurate and reliable data related to the timberland in which we invest, then our assumptions, forecasts, and valuations relating to those timberlands will be incorrect. As a result, we may not be able to realize the anticipated returns from those timberlands or to sell the property for the price that we anticipated, which could negatively impact our financial condition and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Our estimates of the timber growth rates on our properties may be inaccurate, which would impair our ability to realize expected revenues from those properties. We rely upon estimates of the timber growth rates and yield when acquiring and managing our timberland properties. These estimates are central to forecasting our anticipated timber revenues and expected cash flows. Growth rates and yield estimates are developed by forest statisticians using measurements of trees in research plots on a property. The growth equations predict the rate of height and diameter growth of trees so foresters can estimate the volume of timber that may be present in the tree stand at a given age. Tree growth varies by soil type, geographic area, and climate. Inappropriate application of growth equations in forest management planning may lead to incorrect estimates of future volumes. If these estimates are incorrect, our ability to manage our timberland in a profitable manner will be diminished, which may interfere with our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Changes in assessments, property tax rates, and state property tax laws may reduce our net income and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our expenses may be increased by assessments of our timberland properties and changes in property tax laws. We generally intend to hold our timberland properties for a substantial amount of time. Property values tend to increase over time, and, as property values increase, the related property taxes generally also increase, which would increase the amount of taxes we pay. In addition, changes to state tax laws or local initiatives could also lead to higher tax rates on our timberland properties. Because each parcel of a large timberland property is independently assessed for property tax purposes, our timberland properties may receive a higher assessment and be subject to higher property taxes. In some cases, the cost of the property taxes may exceed the income that could be produced from that parcel of property if we continue to hold it as timberland. If our timberland properties become subject to higher tax rates, the revenues that we use to pay distributions could be diminished and our stockholders may receive a lower return on their investment. Changes in land uses in the vicinity of our timberland properties may increase the amount of the property that we classify as HBU property, and property tax regulations may reduce our ability to realize the values of those HBU properties. An increase in the value of other properties in the vicinity of our timberland properties may prompt us to sell parcels of our land as HBU properties. Local, county and state regulations may prohibit us from, or penalize us for, selling a parcel of timberland for real estate development. Some states regulate the number of times that a large timberland property may be subdivided within a specified time period, which would also limit our ability to sell our HBU property. In addition, in some states timberland is subject to certain property tax policies that are designed to encourage the owner of the timberland to keep the land undeveloped. These policies may result in lower taxes per acre for our timberland properties as long as they are used for timber purposes only. However, if we sell a parcel of timberland in such states as an HBU property, we may trigger tax penalties, which could require us to repay all of the tax benefits that we have received. Our inability to sell our HBU land on terms that are favorable to us could negatively affect our financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We may be unable to properly estimate non-timber revenues from the properties that we acquire, which would impair our ability to acquire attractive properties, as well as our ability to derive the anticipated revenues from those properties. When we acquire properties, we likely will expect to realize revenues from timber and non-timber related activities, such as the sale of conservation easements and recreation leases. Non-timber activities can contribute significantly to the revenues that we derive from a particular property. We will rely on estimates to forecast the amount and extent of revenues from non-timber related activities on our timberland properties. If our estimates concerning the revenue from non-timber related activities are incorrect, we will not be able to realize the projected revenues. If we are unable to realize the level of revenues that we expect from non-timber activities, our revenues from the underlying timberland would be less than expected and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders may be negatively impacted. Our international investments will be subject to changes in global market trends that could adversely impact our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. A portion of our timberland portfolio may consist of properties located in timber-producing regions outside the U.S. These international investments could cause our business to be subject to unexpected, uncontrollable, and rapidly changing events and circumstances in addition to those experienced in U.S. locations. Adverse changes in the following factors, among others, could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations, and ability to make distributions to our stockholders: • effects of exposure to currency other than United States dollars, due to having non-U.S. customers and foreign operations; • regulatory, social, political, labor, or economic conditions in a specific country or region; and • trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment, including loss or modification of exemptions for taxes and tariffs, and import and export licensing requirements. Risks Associated with Debt Financing Continued disruptions in the financial markets and deteriorating economic conditions could also adversely affect our ability to secure debt financing on attractive terms and the values of investments we make. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than 18 months. Liquidity in the global credit market has been severely contracted by these market disruptions, making it costly to obtain new lines of credit or refinance existing debt. We expect to finance our investments in part with debt. As a result of the ongoing credit market turmoil, we may not be able to obtain debt financing on attractive terms. As such, we may be forced to use a greater proportion of our offering proceeds to finance our acquisitions and originations, reducing the number of investments we would otherwise make. If the current debt market environment persists, we may modify our investment strategy in order to optimize our portfolio performance. Our options would include limiting or eliminating the use of debt and focusing on those investments that do not require the use of leverage to meet our portfolio goals. Economic conditions may have an impact on our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. The continued credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system may have an impact on our business and our financial condition. The credit crisis could have an impact on our interest rate swap agreements if our counterparties are forced to default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure, or other reasons. We may be materially and adversely affected in the event of a significant default by one of our counterparties. In addition, depressed economic conditions could influence the levels of consumer 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements spending and reduce the demand for goods produced from our wood, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our ability to make future principal and interest payments on our debt depends upon our future performance, which is subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business, and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. If we default on the terms of the Mahrt Loan, stockholders who invest in us prior to the repayment of the loan could lose some or all of their investment. We borrowed approximately $211.0 million to refinance the debt facilities that we used to partially fund the acquisition of the Mahrt Timberland on October 9, 2007, and which we must repay on or before March 24, 2015. The Mahrt Loan is secured by, among other things, a first priority security interest in the funds raised in our Public Offerings. Our ability to repay the Mahrt Loan is dependent upon our success in raising substantial funds pursuant to our Public Offerings. If the amount of proceeds we raise in our Public Offerings is less than the amount that we need to repay the Mahrt Loan when due, then unless we are able to refinance the Mahrt Loan or otherwise amend its terms, we will be in default under the Mahrt Loan. If we default on the Mahrt Loan, the lenders for such loan will be entitled to all of the proceeds of our offering, up to the amount of the Mahrt Loan. If the lenders under the Mahrt Loan foreclose upon their security interest in a substantial amount of proceeds of our offering, our existing stockholders could lose some or all of their investment and it would be unlikely that we would be able to meet our investment objectives or to raise additional capital in our Follow-On Offering or otherwise in order to continue our operations. We have guaranteed the Mahrt Loan but on a limited basis that covers only losses incurred by CoBank or Wells Fargo up to the maximum amount that would not be considered a fraudulent conveyance under federal bankruptcy and applicable state laws. The Mahrt Loan obtained by us in connection with the refinancing of the loans used to fund the acquisition of the Mahrt Timberland prohibits us from paying distributions other than those required to maintain our REIT status or redeeming shares (except in cases of death or disability) until we attain certain financial performance measures. The Mahrt Loan agreement contains restrictive covenants that prohibit us from declaring, setting aside funds for, or paying any dividend, distribution, or other payment to our stockholders other than those distributions required by the Internal Revenue Code for us to maintain our REIT status, which is generally 90% of REIT taxable income. As a result, we will be unable to make discretionary payments or distributions (or set aside funds for any payments or distributions) to our stockholders until we have attained certain financial performance measures under the Mahrt Loan. The Mahrt Loan has a maturity date of March 2015. The Mahrt Loan requires us to attain a ratio of less than 40% of the amount of the Mahrt Loan to the value of the collateral at the time of determination in order for us to make discretionary distributions. Until the Mahrt Loan is reduced to a loan-to-collateral value ratio of less than 40% and a fixed-charge coverage ratio of greater than 1.05:1.00 is attained, we are permitted to redeem shares only if the redemption is sought within two years of the death or qualifying disability of a stockholder under the plan. We are likely to incur indebtedness which may increase our business risks and may reduce the value of a stockholder’s investment. We have acquired, and in the future may acquire, real properties by borrowing funds. In addition, we may incur mortgage debt and pledge some or all of our real properties as security for that debt to obtain funds to acquire additional real properties. If we become qualified as a REIT, we may also borrow funds if needed to satisfy the REIT tax qualification requirement that we distribute at least 90% of our annual REIT taxable income to our stockholders. We may also borrow funds if we otherwise deem it necessary or advisable to ensure that we maintain our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Significant borrowings by us increase the risks of a stockholder’s investment. If there is a shortfall between the cash flow from properties and the cash flow needed to service our indebtedness, then the amount available for 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements distributions to stockholders may be reduced. In addition, incurring mortgage debt increases the risk of loss since defaults on indebtedness secured by a property may result in lenders initiating foreclosure actions. In that case, we could lose the property securing the loan that is in default, thus reducing the value of a stockholder’s investment. For tax purposes, a foreclosure of any of our properties would be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure, but we would not receive any cash proceeds. We may give full or partial guarantees to lenders of mortgage debt on behalf of the entities that own our properties. When we give a guaranty on behalf of an entity that owns one of our properties, we will be responsible to the lender for satisfaction of the debt if it is not paid by such entity. If any mortgages or other indebtedness contains cross-collateralization or cross-default provisions, a default on a single loan could affect multiple properties. High mortgage interest rates may make it difficult for us to finance or refinance properties, which could reduce the number of properties we can acquire, our net income, and the amount of cash distributions we can make. If mortgage debt is unavailable at reasonable interest rates, we may not be able to finance the purchase of properties. If we place mortgage debt on properties, we run the risk of being unable to refinance the properties when the loans become due, or of being unable to refinance on favorable terms. If interest rates are higher when we refinance the properties, our income could be reduced. We may be unable to refinance properties. If any of these events occurs, our cash flow would be reduced. This, in turn, would reduce cash available for distribution to our stockholders and may hinder our ability to raise more capital by issuing more stock or by borrowing more money. Lenders may require us to enter into restrictive covenants relating to our operations, which could limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. When providing financing, a lender may impose restrictions on us that affect our distribution and operating policies and our ability to incur additional debt. Loan documents we enter into may contain covenants that limit our ability to further mortgage the property, discontinue any insurance coverage that we may have, or replace our advisor. These or other limitations may limit our flexibility and our ability to achieve our operating plans. Increases in interest rates could increase the amount of our debt payments and limit our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. We have incurred significant indebtedness which accrues interest at a variable rate, and we may incur additional debt in the future. Interest we pay under the Mahrt Loan and any other debt we incur will reduce our cash available for distributions. Additionally, if we incur additional variable-rate debt, increases in interest rates would increase our interest cost, which would reduce our cash flows and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. In addition, if we need to repay existing debt during periods of high interest rates, we could be required to sell one or more of our investments in order to repay the debt, which sale at that time might not permit realization of the maximum return on such investments. We have broad authority to incur debt, and high debt levels could hinder our ability to make distributions and could decrease the value of stockholders’ investments. Our charter does not limit us from incurring debt until our aggregate debt would exceed 300% of our net assets (generally expected to approximate 75% of the cost of our timber assets before adjustments for noncash reserves, depletion, amortization and depreciation), unless the excess borrowing over such level is approved by a majority of the independent directors and the excess borrowing is disclosed to stockholders in our next quarterly report following the borrowing, along with justification for the excess. Our board (including the independent directors) unanimously approved our borrowing in excess of the 300% net assets limitation in order to obtain the Mezzanine Loan and the Senior Loan in connection with the acquisition of 28 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements the Mahrt Timberland. This borrowing significantly increased our debt levels. Our debt obligations may cause us to incur higher interest charges on any additional debt incurred in the future and will result in higher debt service payments in order to service the higher debt levels. In addition, the terms of the Mahrt Loan includes restrictive covenants such as the prohibition on paying cash distributions or redeeming shares until we achieve certain financial performance measures under the Mahrt Loan (except for distributions required to maintain our status as a REIT, and except for those redemptions allowed in cases of death or qualifying disability). These factors limit the amount of cash we have available to distribute and could result in a decline in the value of our stockholders’ investments. While we intend to comply with the provisions of our charter, which require our independent directors to approve any borrowings in excess of 300% of our net assets, we have not established any fixed percentage of leverage that we will not exceed in the near-term, and we cannot assure stockholders that our independent directors will not approve any borrowings in excess of 300% of our net assets in the future. Actions of our joint venture partners could reduce the returns on our joint venture investments and decrease stockholders’ overall return. We may enter into joint ventures with third parties to acquire properties. We may also purchase properties in joint ventures or in partnerships, co-tenancies, or other co-ownership arrangements. Such investments may involve risks not otherwise present with other methods of investment in real estate, including, for example: • the possibility that our co-venturer, co-tenant, or partner in an investment might become bankrupt; • that such co-venturer, co-tenant, or partner may at any time have economic or business interests or goals that are or that become inconsistent with our business interests or goals; or • that such co-venturer, co-tenant, or partner may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. Any of the above might subject a property to liabilities in excess of those contemplated and thus reduce our stockholders’ returns. Federal Income Tax Risks Our inability to qualify to be taxed as a REIT from our inception could result in adverse tax consequences to us and our stockholders. We acquired the Mahrt Timberland on October 9, 2007; in connection with such acquisition, our board of directors made the determination that at that time it was not in our best interest to qualify as a REIT. We did not qualify to be taxed as a REIT for our taxable years ended December 31, 2007 or 2008. We intend to elect to be taxed as a REIT commencing with the taxable year ended December 31, 2009. However, because our ability to do so is subject to the satisfaction of certain organizational and operational requirements, we cannot give any assurances regarding when we will qualify or elect to be taxed as a REIT. We refer to the first day of the first taxable year for which we qualify and elect to be taxed as a REIT as our REIT commencement date. If we have a net built-in gain in our assets as of the REIT commencement date, do not elect to take such net built-in gain into income immediately prior to our REIT commencement date and subsequently recognize gain on the disposition of any assets we hold at the REIT commencement date, we will be subject to tax at the highest regular corporate rate during the ten-year period beginning on the REIT commencement date on the lesser of (a) the excess of the fair market value of the asset disposed of as of the REIT commencement date over our basis in the asset as of the REIT commencement date (the built-in gain with respect to that asset as of the REIT commencement date); (b) the amount of gain we would otherwise recognize on the disposition; or (c) the amount of net built-in gain in our assets as of the REIT commencement date not already recognized during the ten-year period. We would be subject to this tax liability even if we qualify and maintain our status as a REIT. Any recognized built-in gain will retain its character as ordinary income or capital gain and will be taken into account in determining REIT taxable income and our distribution requirement. Any tax on the recognized built-in gain will reduce REIT taxable income. If we elect REIT status in the future, we will have to determine whether we have a net built-in 29 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements gain as of the REIT commencement date. If we do, we may choose not to sell assets we might otherwise sell during the ten-year period in which the built-in gain tax applies in order to avoid the built-in gain tax. The IRS has issued a private letter ruling to another REIT indicating that the built-in gain tax would not apply to sales of timber sold during the ten-year period following its conversion to a REIT. We are not entitled to rely on that ruling and have not requested our own IRS ruling. In addition, to qualify as a REIT, we cannot have at the end of any REIT taxable year any undistributed earnings and profits that are attributable to a non-REIT taxable year. We will monitor our earnings and profits position to allow us to be in a position to satisfy this requirement if our board of directors determines that we should elect to be taxed as a REIT. We have not elected to be taxed as a REIT. Upon our election to be taxed as a REIT, we may in the future fail to continue to meet the requirements to maintain our qualification as a REIT, which will require us to pay additional taxes and which could reduce our funds available to make distributions to our stockholders. We have not elected to be taxed as a REIT. We intend to elect to be taxed as a REIT commencing with the taxable year ended December 31, 2009. Upon our election to be taxed as a REIT, our ability to maintain our REIT status is subject to the satisfaction of certain organizational and operational requirements which depends on the results of future operations. Our qualification as a REIT will depend on our ability to meet, on an ongoing basis, these requirements regarding our organization and ownership, distributions of our income, the nature and diversification of our income and assets, and other tests imposed by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. We have no assurances that we will satisfy the requirements for REIT qualification in the future. Alston & Bird LLP, our legal counsel, will not review our compliance with the REIT qualification standards on an ongoing basis. Future legislative, judicial, or administrative changes to the federal income tax laws could be applied retroactively, which could result in our disqualification as a REIT. If we do elect to be taxed as a REIT and subsequently fail to qualify as a REIT for any taxable year, we will be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at corporate rates. In addition, we would generally be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year of losing our REIT status. Losing our REIT status would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders because of the additional tax liability. In addition, distributions to stockholders would no longer qualify for the dividends paid deduction, and we would no longer be required to make distributions. If this occurs, we might be required to borrow funds or liquidate some investments in order to pay the applicable tax. Stockholders may have current tax liability on distributions that they elect to reinvest in our common stock. If a stockholder participates in our distribution reinvestment plan, the stockholder will be deemed to have received, and for income tax purposes will be taxed on, the amount reinvested in shares of our common stock to the extent the amount reinvested was not a tax-free return of capital. In addition, the stockholder will be treated for tax purposes as having received an additional distribution to the extent the shares are purchased at a discount to fair market value. As a result, unless the stockholder is a tax-exempt entity, the stockholder may have to use funds from other sources to pay the tax liability on the value of the shares of common stock received. Even if we elect to be taxed as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we may be subject to other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Even if we elect to be taxed as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we may be subject to some federal, state, and local taxes on our income or property. For example: • In order to qualify as a REIT, we must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income to our stockholders (which is determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction or net capital gain). To the extent that we satisfy the distribution requirement but distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income (including net capital gain), we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on the undistributed income. 30 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • We will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions we pay in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income, and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. • If we have net income from the sale of foreclosure property that we hold primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business or other nonqualifying income from foreclosure property, we must pay a tax on that income at the highest corporate income tax rate. • If we sell a property, other than foreclosure property, that we hold primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business, our gain would be subject to the 100% “prohibited transaction” tax. • Our taxable REIT subsidiaries will be subject to tax on their taxable income. Upon election to be taxed as a REIT, we may be forced to borrow funds during unfavorable market conditions to make distributions to our stockholders, which could increase our operating costs and decrease the value of stockholders’ investments. Once we elect to be taxed as a REIT, we must distribute to our stockholders each year 90% of our REIT taxable income (which is determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction or net capital gain). At times, we may not have sufficient funds to satisfy these distribution requirements and may need to borrow funds to maintain our REIT status and avoid the payment of income and excise taxes. These borrowing needs could result from (1) differences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for federal income tax purposes, (2) the effect of nondeductible capital expenditures, or (3) the creation of reserves. We may need to borrow funds at times when market conditions are unfavorable. Such borrowings could increase our costs and reduce the value of our common stock. To qualify and maintain our REIT status, we may be forced to forego otherwise attractive opportunities, which could delay or hinder our ability to meet our investment objectives and lower the return on stockholders’ investments. To qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy tests on an ongoing basis concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, nature of our assets, and the amounts we distribute to our stockholders. We may be required to make distributions to stockholders at times when it would be more advantageous to reinvest cash in our business or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits. The extent of our use of taxable REIT subsidiaries may affect the value of our common stock relative to the share price of other REITs. We intend to conduct a portion of our business activities through one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries, or TRSs. A TRS is a fully taxable corporation that may earn income that would not be qualifying REIT income if earned directly by us. Our use of TRSs will enable us to engage in non-REIT qualifying business activities, such as the sale of higher-and-better use properties. However, under the Internal Revenue Code, no more than 25% of the value of the assets of a REIT may be represented by securities of one or more TRSs. This limitation may affect our ability to increase the size of our non-REIT qualifying operations. Furthermore, because the income earned by our TRSs will be subject to corporate income tax and will not be subject to the requirement to distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income to our stockholders, our use of TRSs may cause our common stock to be valued differently than the shares of other REITs that do not use TRSs as extensively as we expect to use them. 31 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Certain of our business activities are potentially subject to the prohibited transaction tax, which could reduce the return on stockholders’ investments. Upon our election to be taxed as a REIT, we would be subject to a 100% tax on any net income from “prohibited transactions.” In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property to customers in the ordinary course of business. Sales by us of higher-and-better use property at the REIT level could, in certain circumstances, constitute prohibited transactions. We intend to avoid the 100% prohibited transaction tax upon qualification as a REIT by conducting activities that would be prohibited transactions through one or more TRSs. We may not, however, always be able to identify properties that will become part of our “dealer” land sales business. Therefore, if we sell any higher-and-better use properties at the REIT level that we incorrectly identify as property not held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business or that subsequently become properties held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business, we may be subject to the 100% prohibited transactions tax. Retirement and Employee Benefit Plan Risks If a fiduciary fails to meet the fiduciary and other standards under ERISA or the Internal Revenue Code as a result of an investment in our stock, the fiduciary could be subject to criminal and civil penalties. There are special considerations that apply to pension and employee benefit plans investing in our shares. If the fiduciary is investing the assets of a pension, profit-sharing, 401(k), Keogh, or other qualified retirement plan, the assets of an IRA, or the assets of any other plan that is subject to ERISA and/or the Code in our common stock, the fiduciary should satisfy that: • the investment is consistent with the fiduciary obligations under ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code; • the investment is made in accordance with the documents and instruments governing the plan or IRA, including the plan’s investment policy; • a stockholder’s investment satisfies the applicable prudence and diversification requirements of Sections 404(a)(1)(B) and 404(a)(1)(C) of ERISA and other applicable provisions of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code; • the investment will not impair the liquidity of the plan or IRA; • the investment will not produce “unrelated business taxable income” for the plan or IRA; • the fiduciary will be able to value the assets of the plan annually in accordance with ERISA requirements and applicable provisions of the plan or IRA; and • the investment will not constitute a prohibited transaction under Section 406 of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Internal Revenue Code. Failure to satisfy the fiduciary standards of conduct and other applicable requirements of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code may result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, and can subject the fiduciary to equitable remedies. Fiduciaries may be held personally liable under ERISA for losses suffered by a plan as a result of a breach of fiduciary duty. In addition, if an investment in our shares constitutes a prohibited transaction under ERISA or the Internal Revenue Code, the fiduciary who authorized or directed the investment may be subject to the imposition of excise taxes with respect to the amount invested. Governmental plans, foreign plans, and church plans that are not subject to ERISA or the Code should make sure that the investment in our shares is in accordance with the plan and applicable law. Governmental plans, foreign plans, and church plans generally are exempt from the requirements of ERISA and the Code. However, such plans may be subject to state, foreign, or other laws that impose fiduciary requirements similar to those of ERISA and the Code. Persons making an investment on behalf of a governmental, foreign, or church plan should satisfy themselves that the investment is in accordance with the plan and applicable law. 32 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The annual statement of value that we will send to stockholders subject to ERISA and to certain other plan stockholders is only an estimate and may not reflect the actual value of our shares. The annual statement of value will report the estimated value of each share of common stock as of the close of our fiscal year. Our advisor or another firm we choose for this purpose will prepare this annual estimated value of our shares based on the estimated amount that would be received if our assets were sold as of the close of the fiscal year and if the proceeds, together with our other funds, were distributed pursuant to a liquidation. For 12 months after the completion of our last public equity offering prior to the listing of our shares on a national securities exchange, our advisor will use the most recent price paid to acquire a share in that offering (ignoring purchase price discounts for certain categories of purchasers) as its estimated per-share value of our shares. After that time, we would publish a per-share valuation determined by our advisor or another firm chosen for that purpose. No independent appraisals of our assets will be required during the initial period or at any time thereafter. Stockholders should be aware that: • a value included in the annual statement may not actually be realized by us or by our stockholders upon liquidation; • stockholders may not realize that value if they attempted to sell their shares; and • using the estimated statement of value, or the method used to establish the value, may not comply with any reporting and disclosure or annual valuation requirements under ERISA or other applicable law. We will stop providing annual statements of value if our common stock becomes listed for trading on a national securities exchange. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 