Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report and our other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks or such other risks actually occurs, our business could be harmed. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMPANY, OUR BUSINESS, AND OUR INDUSTRY We may require additional funding, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Our future capital requirements will depend on the amount of cash generated or required by our current operations, as well as additional funds which may be needed to finance future acquisitions. Future cash needs are subject to substantial uncertainty. We cannot guarantee that adequate funds will be available when needed, and if we do not receive sufficient capital, we may be required to alter or reduce the scope of our operations. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our existing shareholders may be diluted. Additionally, we are incurring substantial expense in connection with our pending merger transaction with Remark Media, Inc and failure to complete that transaction would have an adverse impact on our business and financial condition. We have incurred losses and may incur losses in the future, which may impact our ability to implement our business strategy and adversely affect our financial condition. We cannot assure you that we will be profitable or generate sufficient profits from operations in the future. If our revenue growth does not resume, we may experience a loss in one or more future periods. We may not be able to sufficiently reduce our expenses in response to any decrease in our revenue, which may impact our ability to implement our business strategy and adversely affect our financial condition. 9 We face intense competition from larger, more established companies, and we may not be able to compete effectively, which could reduce demand for our services. We compete for Internet advertising revenues with the personal finance sections of general interest sites such as Bankrate.com, Yahoo! Finance, and TheStreet.com. In addition, the online paid search market is intensely competitive. Our primary current competitors include Yahoo!, Google, Bing, Ask.com and Marchex. Although we currently pursue a strategy that allows us to partner with owners of web properties and search engines, our current and future advertising and distribution network partners, including InfoSpace and their paid search providers, Google, Yahoo! Search Marketing and Ask.com, may view us as a threat to their own internal paid search services. Nearly all our competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. Our competitors may secure more favorable revenue sharing arrangements with network distributors, devote greater resources to marketing and promotional campaigns, adopt more aggressive growth strategies and devote substantially more resources to website and systems development than we do. In addition, the Internet media and search industries continue to experience consolidation, including the acquisitions of companies offering finance related content and services and paid search services. Industry consolidation has resulted in larger, more established and well-financed competitors with a greater focus. If these industry trends continue, or if we are unable to compete in the Internet media and paid search markets, our financial results may suffer. Additionally, larger companies may implement policies and/or technologies into their search engines or software that make it less likely that consumers can reach, or execute searches on, our distribution network partners’ websites and less likely that consumers will click-through on sponsored listings from our advertising network partners. The implementation of such technologies could result in a decrease in our revenues. If we are unable to successfully compete against current and future competitors or if our current advertising network partners choose to rely more heavily on their own distribution networks in the future, our operating results will be adversely affected. We rely on our advertising network partners to provide us access to their advertisers, and if they do not or they exert significant pricing pressure on us, it could have an adverse impact on our business. We rely on our advertising network partners to provide us with advertiser listings so that we can distribute these listings through our distribution network in order to generate revenue when a consumer click-through occurs on our advertiser network partners’ sponsored listings. For the year ended December 31, 2011, a substantial majority of our revenue was derived from our primary advertising network partner, InfoSpace, Inc. Our success depends, in part, on the maintenance and growth of our advertising network. If we are unable to develop or maintain relationships with our advertising network partners or if one or more of them exert significant pricing pressure on us, our operating results and financial condition will suffer. We generate a substantial majority of our revenue through InfoSpace, who provides us with Google, Yahoo and other paid search results, and cannot be assured that we will ultimately collect on all of the revenue we produce. InfoSpace provides us with paid search results from Google, Yahoo and other providers and is the source of a substantial majority of our revenue. We have had instances in the past where we have not been paid for all of the revenue we generate and we cannot assure you that this will not happen in the future. In these instances, Google, Yahoo and others have retroactively charged us back for revenue generated that they deemed to be questionable. Although we take proactive measures to mitigate these instances through the use of tools to gauge our traffic quality, these credits to our revenue come with little or no substantiation and/or support and our recourse options are limited. In these instances, we likely have already incurred traffic acquisition costs that in all probability will not be recoverable. These revenue credits and the corresponding traffic acquisition costs have adversely impacted our financial performance in the past and may again in the future. 10 Historically, a few of our advertising network partners and direct advertisers have provided a substantial portion of our revenue; the loss of one of these partners may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. InfoSpace was our largest advertising network partner, accounting for a substantial percentage of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011. Our agreements with InfoSpace currently run through December 31, 2012, with provisions for automatic renewals for successive one year terms, unless terminated by either party. We cannot assure you that, should these agreements fail to renew or should the contracts be terminated or modified in advance of that date, we will be able to timely replace the sponsored listings they provide us from Google, Yahoo and Ask.com. We have had similar agreements in the past that have failed to renew or been modified prior to their termination where our financial results were harmed. If we do not maintain and grow a critical mass of advertising network partners, the value of our services could be adversely affected. Our success depends, in part, on the maintenance and growth of a critical mass of advertising network partners and a continued interest in our performance-based advertising and search marketing services. We currently have a small number of advertising network partners. If our business is unable to achieve a growing base of advertisers through our advertising network partners, our current distribution partners may be discouraged from continuing to work with us, which may create obstacles for us to enter into agreements with new distribution partners. Any decline in the number of advertising network partners could adversely affect the value of our services and lead to a loss of revenue. We expect that our anticipated future growth, including through potential acquisitions, may strain our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure, which could adversely affect our business. A key component of our business strategy includes strengthening our competitive position in the market through potentially pursuing select strategic merger and acquisition alternatives including the acquisition of additional web properties, specifically in the financial services sector. Furthermore, we may expand our operations or market presence by pursuing acquisitions of complementary businesses, services or technologies or engaging in other strategic alliances with third parties. Integrating any newly acquired web property or company may be expensive and time-consuming. To finance any acquisition, it may be necessary for us to raise additional funds through public or private financings. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, and, in the case of equity financings, would result in dilution to our shareholders. Any such transactions would be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in such transactions, including, among others, the difficulty of assimilating operations, technology and personnel of the combined companies, the potential disruption of our ongoing business, the inability to retain key technical and managerial personnel, the inability of management to maximize our financial and strategic position through the successful integration of acquired businesses, additional expenses associated with amortization of acquired intangible assets, the maintenance of uniform standards, controls and policies, the impairment of relationships with existing employees and customers, and potential overpayment for a company or its assets. We have limited experience in these types of acquisitions, and we may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other potential problems. We cannot assure you that we will be able to consummate any acquisitions or, if consummated, successfully integrate the operations and management of future acquisitions. If we are unable to attract and consummate acquisitions, our growth could be adversely impacted. We may experience unforeseen liabilities in connection with acquisitions of Internet web properties, which could negatively impact our financial results. We intend in the future to continue to acquire additional previously-owned Internet web properties. In some cases, these acquired web properties may have trademark significance that is not readily apparent to us or is not identified by us in the purchasing process. As a result we may face demands by third party trademark owners asserting infringement or dilution of their rights and seeking transfer of acquired Internet web properties under the Uniform Domain Name Dispute Resolution Policy administered by ICANN or actions under the United States Anti-Cybersquatting Consumer Protection Act. We intend to review each claim or demand which may arise from time to time on its merits on a case-by-case basis with the assistance of counsel and we intend to transfer any rights acquired by us to any party that has demonstrated a valid prior right or claim. We cannot, however, guarantee that we will be able to resolve these disputes without litigation. The potential violation of third party intellectual property rights and potential causes of action under consumer protection laws may subject us to unforeseen liabilities including injunctions and judgments for money damages. 11 Regulation could reduce the value of the Internet web properties acquired or negatively impact the Internet domain acquisition process, which could significantly impair the value of acquisitions. The acquisition of Internet web properties generally is governed by regulatory bodies. The regulation of Internet web properties in the United States and in foreign countries is subject to change. Regulatory bodies could establish additional requirements for previously-owned Internet web properties or modify the requirements for holding Internet web properties. As a result, we might not acquire or maintain web properties that contribute to our financial results in the same manner as reflected in the historical financial results of the acquired businesses. A failure to acquire or maintain such Internet web properties once acquired could adversely affect our financial results and our growth. Any impairment in the value of acquired businesses could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our quarterly results of operations might fluctuate due to seasonality, which could adversely affect our growth rate and in turn the market price of our securities. Our quarterly results have fluctuated in the past and will likely fluctuate in the future due to seasonal fluctuations in the level of Internet usage. As is typical in the Internet search industry, the second and third quarters of the calendar year generally experience relatively lower usage than the first and fourth quarters. It is generally understood that during the spring and summer months of the year, Internet usage is lower than during other times of the year, especially in comparison to the fourth quarter of the calendar year. The extent to which usage may decrease during these off-peak periods is difficult to predict. Prolonged or severe decreases in usage during these periods may adversely affect our growth rate and in turn the market price of our securities. In addition, we expect the revenues associated with our website www.irs.com to be largely seasonal in nature, with peak revenues occurring during January through April, corresponding to the U.S. tax season. If we fail to detect click-through fraud, we could lose the confidence of our advertising network partners, thereby causing our business to suffer. We are exposed to the risk of fraudulent or illegitimate clicks on our direct ads and our sponsored listings. If fraudulent clicks are not detected, the affected advertisers may experience a reduced return on their investment in pay-per-click advertising programs because the fraudulent clicks will not lead to revenue for the advertisers. As a result, our advertising network partners may become dissatisfied with us, which could lead to loss of advertising network partners and revenue. We could be liable for breaches of security on our website. A fundamental requirement for e-commerce is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Although our systems and processes are designed to protect consumer information and other security breaches, failure to mitigate such fraud or breaches may adversely affect our operating results. If the market for our services decreases it will have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Internet marketing and advertising, in general, and paid search advertising, in particular, are in the early stages of development. Our future revenue and profits are substantially dependent upon the continued widespread acceptance, growth, and use of the Internet and other online services as effective advertising mediums. Many of the largest advertisers have generally relied upon more traditional forms of media advertising and have only limited experience advertising on the Internet. Paid search, in particular, is still in an early stage of development and may not be accepted by consumers for many reasons including, among others, that consumers may conclude that paid search results are less relevant and reliable than non-paid search results, and may view paid search results less favorably than search results generated by non-paid search engines. If consumers reject our paid search services, or commercial use of the Internet generally, and the number of click-throughs on listings in our distribution network decreases, the commercial utility of our search services could be adversely affected. We face significant competition from traditional media companies which could adversely affect our future operating results. We also compete with traditional media companies for advertising. Most advertisers currently spend only a small portion of their advertising budgets on Internet advertising. If we fail to persuade existing advertisers to retain and increase their spending with us and if we fail to persuade new advertisers to spend a portion of their budget on advertising with us, our revenues could decline and our future operating results could be adversely affected. 12 If we do not continue to innovate and provide products and services that are useful to users, we may not remain competitive, and our revenues and operating results could suffer. Our success depends on providing products and services that people use for a high quality Internet experience. Our competitors are constantly developing innovations in web search, online advertising and providing information to people. As a result, we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development in order to enhance our web search technology and our existing products and services and introduce new high-quality products and services that people can easily and effectively use. If we are unable to ensure that our users and customers have a high quality experience with our products and services, then they may become dissatisfied and move to competitors’ products and services. In addition, if we are unable to predict user preferences or industry changes or if we are unable to modify our products and services on a timely basis, we may lose users and advertisers. Our operating results would also suffer if our innovations are not responsive to the needs of our users and advertisers, are not appropriately timed with market opportunity or are not effectively brought to market. As search technology continues to develop, our competitors may be able to offer search results that are, or that are perceived to be, substantially similar to or better than those generated by our search services. This may force us to compete in different ways with our competitors and to expend significant resources in order to remain competitive. Our technical systems are vulnerable to interruption and damage that may be costly and time-consuming to resolve and may harm our business and reputation. A disaster could interrupt our services for an indeterminate length of time and severely damage our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: • fire; • floods; • network failure; • hardware failure; • software failure, • power loss; • telecommunications failures; • break-ins; • terrorism, war or sabotage; • computer viruses; • denial of service attacks; • penetration of our network by unauthorized computer users and “hackers” and other similar events; • natural disaster; and • other unanticipated problems. We may not have developed or implemented adequate protections or safeguards to overcome any of these events. We also may not have anticipated or addressed many of the potential events that could threaten or undermine our technology network. Any of these occurrences could cause material interruptions or delays in our business, result in the loss of data or render us unable to provide services to our customers. In addition, if a person is able to circumvent our security measures, he or she could destroy or misappropriate valuable information or disrupt our operations. We have deployed firewall hardware intended to thwart hacker attacks. Although we maintain property insurance and business interruption insurance, our insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur as a result of a catastrophic system failure or other loss, and our insurers may not be able or may decline to do so for a variety of reasons. 13 If we fail to address these issues in a timely manner, we may lose the confidence of our advertising network partners, our revenue may decline and our business could suffer. In addition, as we expand our service offerings and enter into new business areas, we may be required to significantly modify and expand our software and technology platform. If we fail to accomplish these tasks in a timely manner, our business and reputation will likely suffer. New technologies could block our ads, which would harm our business. Technologies may be developed that can block the display of our ads. Most of our revenues are derived from fees paid to us by advertisers in connection with the display of ads on web pages. As a result, ad-blocking technology could, in the future, adversely affect our operating results. We rely on third party technology, server, software and hardware providers, and a failure or termination of services by these providers could adversely affect our business and reputation. We rely upon third party dedicated server hosting providers to host our main servers, network infrastructure, and security infrastructure and expect to continue to do so. We also rely on third party providers for components of our technology platform, such as software providers, software libraries, outsourced software development, domain name registrars and Domain Name Server (DNS) services. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, acts of war, break-ins, and similar events. While the facilities housing our servers provide redundant HVAC, power and Internet connectivity, in the past, we have experienced short-term outages in the service maintained by certain of our current dedicated hosting and co-location providers. A failure or limitation of service or available capacity by any of these third party providers could adversely affect our business and reputation. We do not presently have multi-location redundancy and our business interruption insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. In addition, if any of these third party providers cease operations for any reason or if we are unable to agree on satisfactory terms for continued hosting relationships, we would be forced to enter into a relationship with other service providers or assume hosting responsibilities ourselves. If we are forced to switch hosting facilities, we may not be successful in finding an alternative service provider on acceptable terms or in hosting the computer servers ourselves. We may also be limited in our remedies against these providers in the event of a failure of service, failure of their infrastructure and/or failure of their security systems. We also rely on third party software providers to develop, support and maintain some of our core systems. If our relationships with any of these third party software providers is disrupted or terminated, we would be forced to seek new providers who offer similar services. There is no guarantee that we’ll be able to secure such services in a timely manner and business disruptions could ensue as a result. We depend on the growth of the Internet and Internet infrastructure for our future growth and any decrease or less than anticipated growth in Internet usage could adversely affect our business prospects. Our future revenue and profits, if any, depend upon the continued widespread use of the Internet as an effective commercial and business medium. Factors which could reduce the widespread use of the Internet include: • possible disruptions or other damage to the Internet or telecommunications infrastructure; • failure of the individual networking infrastructures of our advertising network and distribution network partners to alleviate potential overloading and delayed response times; • a decision by merchant advertisers to spend more of their marketing dollars in offline areas; • increased governmental regulation and taxation; and • actual or perceived lack of security or privacy protection. In particular, concerns over the security of transactions conducted on the Internet and the privacy of users may inhibit the growth of the Internet and other online services, especially online commerce. In order for the online commerce market to develop successfully, we and other market participants must be able to transmit confidential information, including credit card information, securely over public networks. Any decrease or less than anticipated growth in Internet usage could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects. 14 Our executive officers and certain key personnel are critical to our success, and the loss of these officers and key personnel could harm our business. Our performance is substantially dependent on the continued services and performance of our executive officers and other key personnel, including Daniel M. O’Donnell, our Chief Executive Officer, and Steven Ernst, our Chief Technology Officer. Our performance also depends on our ability to retain and motivate our officers and key employees. The loss of the services of any of our officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate other highly skilled technical, managerial and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. The failure to attract and retain our officers or the necessary technical, managerial and marketing personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We anticipate that significant expansion of our present operations will be required to capitalize on potential growth in market opportunities. This expansion has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. We expect to add a significant number of additional key personnel in the future, including key managerial and technical employees who will have to be fully integrated into our operations. In order to manage our growth, we will be required to continue to implement and improve our operational and financial systems, to expand existing operations, to attract and retain superior management, and to train, manage and expand our employee base. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations, that our systems, procedures or controls will be adequate to support our operations or that our management will be able to successfully implement our business plan. If we are unable to manage growth effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may be subject to intellectual property claims that create uncertainty about ownership of technology essential to our business and divert our managerial and other resources. There has been a substantial amount of litigation in the technology industry regarding intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that third parties will not, in the future, claim infringement by us with respect to our current or future services, trademarks or other proprietary rights. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property and to operate without infringing on the intellectual property rights of others in the process. There can be no guarantee that any of our intellectual property will be adequately safeguarded, or that it will not be challenged by third parties. We may be subject to patent infringement claims or other intellectual property infringement claims that would be costly to defend and could limit our ability to use certain critical technologies. We may also become subject to interference proceedings conducted in the patent and trademark offices of various countries to determine the priority of inventions. The defense and prosecution, if necessary, of intellectual property suits, interference proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings is costly and may divert our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. We may not prevail in any of these suits. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could cause us to pay substantial damages, including treble damages if we willfully infringe, and, also, could put our patent applications at risk of not being issued. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments in the litigation. If investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have an adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Any intellectual property litigation could negatively impact our business by diverting resources and management attention away from other aspects of our business and adding uncertainty as to the ownership of technology and services that we view as proprietary and essential to our business. In addition, a successful claim of patent infringement against us and our failure or inability to obtain a license for the infringed or similar technology on reasonable terms, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 15 Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights could harm our competitive position. Our success is substantially dependent upon our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements and technical measures, to protect our proprietary rights. Although we have filed patent applications and provisional patents on certain parts of our technology, much of our proprietary information may not be patentable, and we do not currently possess any patents. We cannot assure you that we will develop proprietary technologies that are patentable or that any pending patent applications will be issued or that their scope is broad enough to provide us with meaningful protection. We cannot assure you that we will be able to secure significant protection for our trademarks. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. We cannot assure you that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology or duplicate our services or design around patents issued to us or our other intellectual property rights. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, our business and our operations could be adversely affected. We are susceptible to general economic conditions, and a downturn in advertising and marketing spending by merchants could adversely affect our operating results. Our operating results will be subject to fluctuations based on general economic conditions, in particular those conditions that impact merchant-consumer transactions. If there were to be a general economic downturn that affected consumer activity in particular, however slight, then we would expect that business entities, including merchant advertisers, could substantially and immediately reduce their advertising and marketing budgets. We believe that during periods of lower consumer activity, merchant spending on advertising and marketing is more likely to be reduced, and more quickly, than many other types of business expenses. These factors could cause a material adverse effect on our operating results. We may be subject to lawsuits for information displayed on our websites and the websites of advertisers displayed on our distribution network, which may affect our business. Laws relating to the liability of providers of online services for activities of their advertisers and for the content of their advertisers’ listings are currently unsettled. It is unclear whether we could be subjected to claims for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or claims based on other theories relating to the information we publish on our websites or the information that is published across our distribution network. These kinds of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against online services as well as other print publications in the past. We may not successfully avoid civil or criminal liability for unlawful activities carried out by advertisers displayed on our distribution network. Our potential liability for unlawful activities of advertisers or for the content of advertisers’ listings displayed on our distribution network could require us to implement measures to reduce our exposure to such liability, which may require us, among other things, to spend substantial resources or to discontinue certain service offerings. Our insurance may not adequately protect us against these kinds of claims and the defense of such claims may divert the attention of our management from our operations. If we are subjected to such lawsuits, it may adversely affect our business. In addition, much of the information on www.banks.com that is provided by advertisers and collected from third parties relates to the rates, costs and features for various loan, depositary, personal credit and investment products offered by financial institutions, mortgage companies, investment companies, insurance companies and others participating in the consumer financial marketplace. We are exposed to the risk that some advertisers may provide us, or directly post on our websites, (i) inaccurate information about their product rates, costs and features, or (ii) rates, costs and features that are not available to all consumers. This could cause consumers to lose confidence in the information provided by advertisers on our websites, and cause certain advertisers to become dissatisfied with our websites, and result in lawsuits being filed against us. If we are unable to obtain and maintain adequate insurance, our financial condition could be adversely affected in the event of uninsured or inadequately insured loss or damage. We may not be able to obtain and maintain insurance policies on terms affordable to us that would adequately insure our business and property against damage, loss or claims by third parties. To the extent our business or property suffers any damages, losses or claims by third parties that are not covered or adequately covered by insurance, our financial condition may be materially adversely affected. 16 Impairment of intangible assets has decreased our earnings in the past and may do so again in the future. Current accounting rules require that intangible assets with indefinite useful lives be tested for impairment at least annually. These rules also require that intangible assets with definite useful lives be amortized over their respective estimated useful lives to their estimated residual values, and reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. To the extent such evaluation indicates that the useful lives of intangible assets are different than originally estimated, the amortization period is reduced or extended and, accordingly, the quarterly amortization expense is increased or decreased. We have substantial intangible assets on our balance sheet, and have taken significant impairment charges to earnings in the past. We recorded impairment charges of $6.7 million in 2011 and may be required to record additional charges to earnings in the future in our financial statements during the period in which any additional impairment of our amortizable intangible assets is determined. Any additional impairment charges or changes to the estimated amortization periods could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Impairment of the deferred tax assets recorded on our balance sheet has decreased our earnings in the past and may do so again in the future. We periodically review the probability of the realization of our deferred tax assets on our balance sheet based on forecasts of taxable income. As part of this review, we utilize historical results, projected future operating results, eligible carryforward periods, tax planning opportunities, and other relevant considerations. Adverse changes in our profitability have required changes in the valuation allowances that reduced our deferred tax assets on our balance sheet in the past and this may occur again in the future. Such changes have triggered material non-cash expenses to be recorded in the period in which the changes were made and had a material adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition. We recorded a valuation allowance charge of $1.2 million in 2011 and may be required to record additional charges to earnings in the future. Government and legal regulations have damaged our business in the past and may damage it in the future. We are subject to general business regulations and laws, as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet and e-commerce. Such existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth of the Internet or other online services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, user privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services, broadband residential Internet access, and the characteristics and quality of products and services. The Federal Trade Commission has recently reviewed the way in which search engines disclose paid search practices to Internet users. In 2002, the FTC issued guidance recommending that all search engine companies ensure that all paid search results are clearly distinguished from non-paid results, that the use of paid search is clearly and conspicuously explained and disclosed and that other disclosures are made to avoid misleading users about the possible effects of paid search listings on search results. The adoption of laws or regulations relating to placement of paid search advertisements or user privacy, defamation or taxation may inhibit the growth in use of the Internet, which in turn, could decrease the demand for our services and increase our cost of doing business or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Any new legislation or regulation, or the application of existing laws and regulations to the Internet or other online services, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The application of new and existing laws and regulations to the Internet or other online services has had a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations in the past. For example, on April 17, 2007, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1677, The Taxpayer Protection Act of 2007(“H.R. 1677”). Section 8 of H.R. 1677 would have amended Section 333, Title 31 of the U.S. Code to include Internet domain addresses in the prohibition on misuse of the U.S. Department of the Treasury names and symbols. Although the legislation was never passed by the Senate or signed into law and the bill died with the ending of the 110th Congress in January 2009, there is no guarantee that similar legislation won’t be introduced and passed into law by the current or future Congress. While the ultimate impact of any such proposed legislation is not presently determinable, if enacted, such legislation may adversely impact our overall operations. We own the Internet domain address www.irs.com, which is an acronym commonly associated with the Internal Revenue Service, a division of the U.S. Department of the Treasury. While the bill was never passed into law, if enacted, the passage of such legislation could have severely adversely affected our use of our Internet domain address www.irs.com as well as our overall operations. In the event a bill such as H.R. 1677 were to become law , we intend to be continue to be diligent in our communications with the Internal Revenue Service and Congress in an effort to mitigate any potential negative effects of such legislation. 17 We may be subjected to large scale advertiser defections due to external organizations exerting influence. The passage of H.R. 1677 in April 2007 resulted in a modification of the 2008 Operating Agreement of the Free File Alliance and prohibited their members from advertising on the domain irs.com. The Free File Alliance is a public/private cooperative of nineteen online tax providers who provide certain U.S. citizens with access to free online tax preparation in cooperation with the Internal Revenue Service. Their members represent the vast majority of the online tax preparation market including TurboTax, H&R Block and TaxAct and the unexpected loss of their advertising dollars had an adverse affect on our business in 2008. We have been diligent in mitigating the adverse affects of this and have historically taken such steps as redirecting the traffic from irs.com to banks.com. We have also increased the prominence of our disclaimer that we are not the Internal Revenue Service to help minimize the possibility of any user confusion, as well as providing users links to irs.gov. The Free File Alliance no longer prohibits their members from advertising on the banks.com domain but we cannot assure you that they will continue allow their members to advertise with us or that individual members will not decide on their own not to advertise with us. State and local governments may be able to levy additional taxes on Internet access and electronic commerce transactions, which could result in a decrease in the level of usage of our services. Beginning in 1998, the federal government imposed a moratorium on state and local governments’ imposition of new taxes on Internet access and eCommerce transactions, which has now expired. State and local governments may be able to levy additional taxes on Internet access and eCommerce transactions unless the moratorium is reinstituted. Any increase in applicable taxes may make eCommerce transactions less attractive for businesses and consumers, which could result in a decrease in eCommerce activities and the level of usage of our services. As a result of our acquisition of MyStockFund Securities, Inc., we are subject to the extensive regulations that govern a broker-dealer. MyStockFund Securities, Inc., a broker-dealer registered with the SEC and in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico, and a member of a self-regulatory organization, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”). Broker-dealers are subject to federal and state laws and regulations covering all aspects of the securities business, including sales and trading practices, securities offerings, publication of research reports, use of customers’ funds and securities, minimum net capital requirements, record-keeping and retention, anti-money laundering, privacy laws, and the conduct of their directors, officers, employees and other associated persons. Violations of the federal and state laws and regulations governing a broker-dealers actions could result in civil and criminal liability and administrative liability in the form of censures, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, revocation of licenses or registrations, the suspension or expulsion from the securities industry of such broker-dealer or its officers or employees, or other similar consequences by both federal and state securities administrators. The cost of compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 may negatively impact our income. We are subject to the rules and regulations of the SEC, including those rules and regulations mandated by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires all reporting companies to include in their annual report a statement of management’s responsibilities for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, together with an assessment of the effectiveness of those internal controls. The costs to comply with these requirements will likely be significant and may adversely affect our operating results. Section 404 further requires that the reporting company’s independent auditors attest to, and report on, this management assessment. As of December 31, 2011, the Company was not yet subject to the auditor attestation requirement of Section 404; however, the Company expects its expenses related to its internal and external auditors to increase significantly. If we fail to maintain a system of adequate controls, it could have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. 18 Failure to comply with laws and regulations that protect our customers’ personal and financial information could result in significant fines, penalties and damages and could harm our brand and reputation. Privacy concerns relating to the disclosure of consumer financial information have drawn increased attention from federal and state governments. For example, the IRS generally prohibits the use or disclosure by tax return preparers of taxpayers’ information without the prior written consent of the taxpayer. In addition, other regulations require financial service providers to adopt and disclose consumer privacy policies and provide consumers with a reasonable opportunity to “opt-out” of having personal information disclosed to unaffiliated third-parties for marketing purposes. Although we have procedures to protect against identity theft, breaches of our clients’ privacy may occur. To the extent the measures we have taken prove to be insufficient or inadequate, we may become subject to litigation or administrative sanctions, which could result in significant fines, penalties or damages and harm to our brand and reputation. In addition, changes in these federal and state regulatory requirements could result in more stringent requirements and could result in a need to change business practices, including how information is disclosed. Establishing systems and processes to achieve compliance with these new requirements may increase costs and/or limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. If insolvency laws or actions of our lessor prevent us from exercising our rights under our option agreement entered into in connection with our sale/leaseback transaction relating to our banks.com domain name, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operation and financial condition. We entered into a sale-leaseback arrangement whereby we assigned our domain name, banks.com, in exchange for a cash payment and entered into a lease agreement to lease back the domain name for a five year term. At the same time, the lessor of the domain name granted us an option to purchase the domain for a nominal amount at the end of the lease. If the lessor of the domain name were to become subject to any insolvency law, the lessor or its trustee-in-bankruptcy may attempt to reject the option agreement or provisions of the United States Bankruptcy Code may materially limit or prevent the enforcement of the lessor’s obligations under the option agreement. If a court were to limit or prevent enforcement of the option agreement or if an attempt were made to litigate any of the foregoing issues, then we may lose our right to exercise the option or such right could be delayed or the exercise price of the option could be increased. In addition, if, through inadvertence or fraud, the lessor transfers only the domain, but not the option agreement, to a purchaser who purchases in good faith without knowledge that the purchase violates our rights in the domain name, the purchaser could defeat our ownership interest in the domain pursuant to the exercise of its purchase option. We and the lessor have taken certain steps in structuring the sale-leaseback transaction in an effort to mitigate the occurrence of the foregoing. However, there is no assurance that these measures will be respected by a court if the lessor seeks bankruptcy protection or otherwise transfers the domain in violation of the option agreement. Our loss of the banks.com domain name or any substantial increase in the price we must pay to exercise our purchase option for the domain would likely have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. RISKS RELATING TO OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK Trading of our common stock is limited, which may make it difficult for you to sell your shares at times and prices that you feel are appropriate. Trading of our common stock is conducted on the OTCQB and a substantial percentage of our outstanding shares are held by officers, directors and affiliates and as a result, trading in our common stock has historically been limited. This limited trading adversely effects the liquidity of our common stock, not only in terms of the number of shares that can be bought and sold at a given price, but also through delays in the timing of transactions and reduction in security analysts’ and the media’s coverage of us. As a result, you may obtain lower prices for our common stock than might otherwise be obtained. 19 The market price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile, which could cause investment losses for our shareholders and result in shareholder litigation with substantial costs, economic loss and diversion of our resources. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest will support an active and liquid trading market for our common stock. In addition, the trading price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations as a result of various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents, by us or a competitor; • market acceptance of our new and existing services and technologies; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, commercial relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • continued growth in the Internet and the infrastructure for providing Internet access and carrying Internet traffic; • introductions of new services by us or our competitors; • enactment of new government regulations affecting our industry; • changes in the number of our advertising network partners; • seasonal fluctuations in the level of Internet usage; • loss of key employees; • institution of intellectual property litigation by or against us; • changes in the market valuations of similar companies; and • changes in our industry and the overall economic environment. Due to the emerging nature of the paid search market, we have historically had difficulty in predicting our results and may, in the future, not be able to accurately predict our operating results on a quarterly basis, if at all, which may lead to further volatility in the trading price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for online commerce companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the listed companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. Litigation against us, whether or not a judgment is entered against us, could result in substantial costs, and potentially, economic loss, and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. As a result of these and other factors, you may not be able to resell your shares above the price you paid and may suffer a loss on your investment. If the ownership of our common stock continues to be highly concentrated, it may prevent you and other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions and may result in conflicts of interest that could cause our stock price to decline. As of February 29, 2012, our executive officers and directors (including affiliates of such executive officers and directors) beneficially owned or controlled approximately 40% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Our Chief Executive Officer and his spouse beneficially own an additional 3 million shares of preferred stock which is convertible to common stock on at 3:1 basis. In total, on February 29, 2012, our executive officers and directors (including affiliates of such executive officers and directors) beneficially owned or controlled approximately 50% of the outstanding shares of our common stock and preferred stock (on an as-converted basis). Accordingly, these executive officers and directors, acting as a group, will have substantial influence and may control the outcome of corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets or any other significant corporate transactions. These shareholders may also delay or prevent a change of control of our company, even if such a change of control would benefit our other shareholders. The significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock due to investors’ perception that conflicts of interest may exist or arise. 20 Anti-takeover provisions may limit the ability of another party to acquire us, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our articles of incorporation, our bylaws and Florida law contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us, even if doing so may be beneficial to our shareholders. In addition, these provisions could limit the price investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. The following are examples of such provisions in our articles of incorporation and in our bylaws: • special meetings of our stockholders may be called by our Chairman of the Board, by our Chief Executive Officer, by our President, by the board of directors or by the holders of not less than ten percent (10%) of all the shares entitled to vote at the meeting (when requested in a written, signed and dated demand); • newly-created directorships and vacancies on our board of directors may be filled by an affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors, or by our shareholders; • a director may be removed with or without cause, at a meeting of the shareholders called expressly for that purpose, as provided in Section 607.0808, Florida Statutes; • our bylaws may be further amended by a majority of the shareholders entitled to vote thereon present at any shareholders’ meeting if notice of the proposed action was included in the notice of the meeting or is waived in writing by a majority of the shareholders entitled to vote thereon; • our board of directors is authorized to issue, without further action by our shareholders, up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges, qualifications and restrictions granted or imposed on such preferred stock, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, rights and terms of redemption, liquidation preference and sinking fund terms, any or all of which may be greater than the rights of the common stock; • holders of Series C Preferred Stock as a separate class shall be entitled to elect one (1) member of our board of directors (but only if Daniel M. O’Donnell is not then serving in the position of director of the Company); and • without a vote of 75% of our outstanding Series C Preferred Stock, our board of directors may not be increased to more than five directors and we may not incur additional indebtedness. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 