ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Overview Below are the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those presented in our forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face but do represent those risks and uncertainties that we believe are material to our business, operating results, prospects, and financial condition. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also harm our business. Risks Related to Investing in Our Initial Offering There is no public trading market for our shares; therefore, it will be difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares. There is no current public trading market for our shares and we have no current plans to apply for listing on any public securities market. Our charter also prohibits the ownership of more than 9.8% in value of our outstanding shares, or more than 9.8% (in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the aggregate of our 6 Index to Financial Statements outstanding common shares, unless exempted by our board of directors, which may inhibit large investors from desiring to purchase our stockholders’ shares. In addition, our share redemption plan includes numerous restrictions that will limit our stockholders ability to sell their shares. Our board is also free to amend or terminate the plan upon 30 days’ notice after our offering is effective. Therefore, it will be difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares promptly or at all. If our stockholders are able to sell their shares, they will likely have to sell them at a substantial discount to their public offering price. It is also likely that their shares will not be accepted as the primary collateral for a loan. If we are unable to find suitable investments, we may not be able to achieve our investment objectives or pay distributions. When we invest the anticipated proceeds of our initial offering, the continuing high demand for the type of properties we desire to acquire may cause our distributions and the long-term returns of our investors to be lower than they otherwise would. We believe the current market for timberland properties is extremely competitive. We will be competing for these timberland investments with other REITs, forestry products companies, real estate limited partnerships, pension funds and their advisors, bank and insurance company investment accounts, individuals, and other entities. Many of our competitors have more experience, greater financial resources, and a greater ability to borrow funds to acquire properties than we do. The greater the number of entities and resources competing for timberland properties, the higher the acquisition prices of these properties will be, which could reduce our profitability and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. We cannot be sure that our advisor, working with or without timber managers, will be successful in obtaining suitable investments on financially attractive terms or that, if our advisor makes investments on our behalf, our objectives will be achieved. The more money we raise in our initial offering, the greater will be our challenge to invest all of the net offering proceeds on attractive terms. If we are unable to find suitable investments in properties promptly, we will hold the proceeds from our initial offering in an interest-bearing account or invest the proceeds in short-term, investment-grade investments and may, ultimately, liquidate. Delays we encounter in the selection and acquisition of properties would likely limit our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders and reduce our stockholders’ overall returns. We have not yet identified any of the properties that we will purchase with the anticipated proceeds of our initial offering, which makes our stockholder’s investment more speculative. We have not yet identified any of the investments that we will make with the proceeds of our initial offering. Our ability to identify well-performing properties and achieve our investment objectives depends upon the ability of our advisor to acquire investments and secure financing. The large size of our initial offering increases the challenges that our advisor will face in investing our net offering proceeds promptly in attractive properties, and the continuing high demand for the type of properties we desire to purchase increases the risk that we may pay too much for the properties that we do purchase. Because of the illiquid nature of our shares, even if we disclose information about our potential investments before we make them, it will be difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares promptly or at all. If we are unable to raise substantial funds, we will be limited in the number and type of investments we may make, and the value of our stockholder’s investment in us will fluctuate with the performance of the specific properties we acquire. Our initial offering is being made on a “best efforts” basis, whereby the brokers participating in the offering are only required to use their best efforts to sell our shares and have no firm commitment or obligation to purchase any of the shares. As a result, the amount of proceeds we raise in our initial offering may be substantially less than the amount we would need to achieve a broadly diversified timberland property portfolio. If we only raise the minimum offering amount, we will not be able to achieve a diversified portfolio. If we are unable to raise substantially more than the minimum offering amount, we will make fewer investments resulting in less diversification in terms of the number of investments owned, the geographic regions in which our properties are located, and the species and age of the timber located on those properties. In that case, the likelihood of our 7 Index to Financial Statements profitability being affected by the performance of any one of our properties will increase. Additionally, we are not limited in the number or size of our properties or the percentage of net proceeds we may dedicate to a single property. Our stockholder’s investment in our shares will be subject to greater risk to the extent that we lack a diversified portfolio of timberland properties. We have no operating history, which makes our future performance and the performance of our stockholder’s investment difficult to predict. We have no operating history. We were incorporated in September 2005, have not yet made any investments in timberland or otherwise. Our lack of operating history significantly increases the risk and uncertainty our stockholder’s face in making an investment in our shares. We expect our real estate investments to be concentrated in timberland properties, making us more vulnerable economically than if our investments were diversified. We expect to qualify as a REIT, and, accordingly, as a REIT, we will invest primarily in real estate. Within the real estate industry, we intend to acquire and own timberland properties. We are subject to risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate. The risks resulting from a lack of diversification become even greater as a result of our current business strategy to invest primarily, if not exclusively, in timberland properties. A downturn in the real estate industry generally or the timber or forest products industries specifically could reduce the value of our properties. A downturn in the timber or forest products industries also could prevent our customers from making payments to us and, consequently, would prevent us from meeting debt service obligations or making distributions to our stockholders. The risks we face may be more pronounced than if we diversified our investments outside real estate or outside timberland properties. We expect the majority of our income to qualify as capital gains income and, as a result, we may not be required to make substantial distributions. REITs are required to distribute 90% of their net taxable REIT ordinary income. However, unlike ordinary income such as rent, the Internal Revenue Code does not require REITs to distribute capital gains income. Accordingly, except with respect to income generated from a timberland property during the first year following our acquisition of that property, we do not believe that the Internal Revenue Code will require us to distribute any material amounts of cash to maintain our REIT status, given that we expect the majority of our income to come from timber sales and generally to be treated as a capital gain. Our cash distributions are not guaranteed and may fluctuate. The actual amount and timing of distributions will be determined by our board of directors in its discretion and typically will depend upon the amount of funds available for distribution, which will depend on items such as current and projected cash requirements and tax considerations. As a result, our distribution rate and payment frequency may vary from time to time. Our long-term strategy is to fund the payment of quarterly distributions to our stockholders entirely from our funds from operations. However, during the early stages of our operations, we may need to borrow funds to make cash distributions. In the event that we are unable to consistently fund quarterly distributions to stockholders entirely from our funds from operations, the value of our stockholders’ shares upon the possible listing of our stock, the sale of our assets or any other liquidity event may be reduced. Further, if the aggregate amount of cash distributed in any given year exceeds the amount of our “REIT taxable income” generated during the year, the excess amount will be deemed a return of capital. The loss of or inability to obtain key personnel of our advisor or its manager could delay or hinder implementation of our investment strategies, which could limit our ability to make distributions and decrease the value of your investment. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the contributions of Leo F. Wells, III, Douglas P. Williams, Randall D. Fretz, Jess E. Jarratt and John C. Iverson, each of whom are key personnel of our advisor or Wells 8 Index to Financial Statements Capital, its manager, and would be difficult to replace. We do not have employment agreements with any of these key personnel, and we cannot guarantee that such persons will remain affiliated with us. Although Messrs. Wells, Williams and Fretz have entered into employment agreements with Wells Capital, these agreements are terminable at will by either party; thus, such persons may not remain affiliated with Wells Capital or us. If any of these key personnel were to cease their affiliation with our advisor or its manager, our operating results could suffer. We do not intend to maintain key-person life insurance on any person. We believe that our future success depends, in large part, upon the ability of our advisor and its manager to retain highly skilled managerial, operational and marketing personnel. Competition for retention of our advisor’s and its manager’s existing skilled personnel is intense, and our advisor and its manager may be unsuccessful in attracting and retaining such skilled personnel. Further, we intend to establish strategic relationships with firms that have special expertise in certain services or as to timberland properties in certain geographic regions. Maintaining such relationships will be important for us to effectively compete with other investors for properties in such regions. We may be unsuccessful in attracting and retaining such relationships. If our advisor or its manager loses or is unable to obtain the services of highly skilled personnel or does not establish or maintain appropriate strategic relationshipps, our ability to implement our investment strategies could be delayed or hindered, and the value of your investment may decline. Our operating performance could suffer if Wells Capital incurs significant losses, including those losses that may result from being the general partner of other entities. Our advisor, Wells TIMO, is a newly formed entity that currently has only two employees and will rely upon the employees of its manager, Wells Capital, to perform many of the services our advisor is required to perform for us. We are dependent on our advisor to select our investments and conduct our operations; thus, adverse changes in the financial health of Wells Capital could hinder our advisor’s ability to successfully manage our operations and our portfolio of investments. As a general partner to many Wells-sponsored programs, Wells Capital may have contingent liability for the obligations of such partnerships. Enforcement of such obligations against Wells Capital could result in a substantial reduction of its net worth. If such liabilities affected the level of services that Wells Capital could provide on behalf of Wells TIMO, our operations and financial performance could suffer as well, which would limit our ability to make distributions and decrease the value of your investment. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to recover claims against our independent directors are limited, which could reduce our stockholders and our recovery against them if they negligently cause us to incur losses. Maryland law provides that a director has no liability in that capacity if he performs his duties in good faith, in a manner he reasonably believes to be in our best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. Our charter provides generally that no independent director will be liable to us or our stockholders for monetary damages and that we will indemnify them for losses unless they are grossly negligent or engage in willful misconduct. We will also indemnify our independent directors for losses related to alleged state or federal securities laws violations unless the allegations are not successfully adjudicated or dismissed with prejudice or unless a properly informed court of competent jurisdiction has not otherwise determined that indemnification should be made. As a result, our stockholders and we may have more limited rights against our independent directors than might otherwise exist under common law, which could reduce our stockholders’ and our recovery from these persons if they act in a negligent manner. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our independent directors (as well as by our other directors, officers, employees, and agents) in some cases, which would decrease the cash otherwise available for distribution to our stockholders. Risks Related to Conflicts of Interest Wells Capital, its affiliates, and our officers will face competing demands on their time, and this may cause our operations and an investment in our company to suffer. We rely on Wells TIMO, our advisor, for the day-to-day operation of our business. Wells TIMO is a newly formed entity. Until Wells TIMO has sufficient personnel of its own, which it may never do, it will rely on the 9 Index to Financial Statements personnel of its manager, Wells Capital, to perform many of the services Wells TIMO is required to perform as our advisor. Wells Capital and its affiliates, including Leo F. Wells, III, our President and a director and the President of Wells Capital; Douglas P. Williams, our Executive Vice President and a director and the Executive Vice President of Wells Capital; and Randall D. Fretz, our Senior Vice President and the Senior Vice President of Wells Capital, have interests in other Wells’ programs and engage in other business activities, including providing advisory services to Wells REIT I, Wells REIT II, Institutional REIT and other Wells-sponsored real estate programs. As a result, they will have conflicts of interest in allocating their time among us and other Wells’ programs and activities in which they are involved. During times of intense activity in other programs and ventures, they may devote less time and fewer resources to our business than are necessary or appropriate to manage our business. If this occurs, the returns on our investments, and the value of our stockholder’s investment, may decline. Our officers and some of our directors face conflicts of interest related to the positions they hold with Wells Capital, its affiliates, and other Wells-sponsored programs, which could hinder our ability to successfully implement our business strategy and to generate returns to our stockholders. Our executive officers and two of our directors, Leo F. Wells, III and Douglas P. Williams, are also officers and directors of Wells Capital, our dealer-manager and other affiliated entities and Wells-sponsored programs, and two of our independent directors, E. Nelson Mills and Donald S. Moss, currently serve on the boards of other real estate programs. As a result, they owe fiduciary duties to these various entities and their stockholders and limited partners, which fiduciary duties may from time to time conflict with the fiduciary duties that they owe to us and our stockholders. Their loyalties to these other entities could result in actions or inactions that are detrimental to our business, which could hinder the implementation of our business strategy and our investment and operational opportunities. If we do not successfully implement our business strategy, we may be unable to generate the cash needed to make distributions to our stockholders and to maintain or increase the value of our assets. Wells TIMO and its affiliates, including our officers and two of our directors, will face conflicts of interest caused by compensation arrangements with us and other Wells-sponsored programs, which could result in actions that are not in the long-term best interests of our stockholders. The amounts payable to Wells TIMO upon termination of the Advisory Agreement may also influence decisions about terminating Wells TIMO or our acquisition or disposition of investments. Under the Advisory Agreement between us, Wells Timberland OP, and Wells TIMO and pursuant to the terms of the special units Wells TIMO owns in Wells Timberland OP, Wells TIMO is entitled to fees and other payments from us and Wells Timberland OP that are structured in a manner intended to provide incentives to Wells TIMO to perform in our best interest and in the best interest of our stockholders. However, because Wells TIMO does not maintain a significant equity interest in us and is entitled to receive substantial minimum compensation regardless of performance, its interests are not wholly aligned with those of our stockholders. As a result, these compensation arrangements could influence Wells TIMO’s advice to us, as well as the judgment of the affiliates of Wells Capital who serve as our officers or directors. Among other matters, the compensation arrangements could affect their judgment with respect to: • the continuation, renewal, or enforcement of our agreements with Wells TIMO and its affiliates, including the Advisory Agreement and the dealer-manager agreement; • public offerings of equity by us, which entitle Wells Investment Securities to dealer-manager fees and entitle Wells Capital to increased asset management fees; • property sales, which entitle Wells TIMO to real estate commissions and possible success-based payment; • the valuation of our timberland properties, which determines the amount of the asset management fee payable to Wells TIMO and affects the likelihood of any success-based payment; • property acquisitions from third parties, which utilize proceeds from our public offerings, thereby increasing the likelihood of continued equity offerings and related fee income for Wells Investment Securities and Wells TIMO; 10 Index to Financial Statements • whether and when we seek to list our common stock on a national securities exchange, which listing could entitle Wells TIMO to a success-based payment but could also hinder its sales efforts for other programs if the price at which our shares trade is lower than the price at which we offered shares to the public; and • whether and when we seek to sell the company or our assets, which sale could entitle Wells TIMO to a success-based payment from Wells Timberland OP but could also hinder its sales efforts for other programs if the sales price for the company or its assets results in proceeds less than the amount needed to preserve our stockholders’ capital. Wells TIMO will have considerable discretion with respect to the terms and timing of acquisition and disposition transactions. Considerations relating to its affiliates’compensation from other programs could result in decisions that are not in the best interests of our stockholders, which could hurt our ability to pay our stockholders’ distributions or result in a decline in the value of their investment. The fees we pay Wells TIMO under the Advisory Agreement and the amounts payable to Wells TIMO under the Wells Timberland OP partnership agreement were not determined on an arm’s-length basis and therefore may not be on the same terms as those we could negotiate with a third party. Because the Advisory Agreement must be renewed annually, the fees and other amounts that we pay to Wells TIMO may increase in future renewals. Our independent directors rely on information and recommendations provided by Wells Capital to determine the fees and other amounts payable to Wells TIMO and its affiliates pursuant to the terms of the Advisory Agreement and the special units in Wells Timberland OP. As a result, these fees and payments cannot be viewed as having been determined on an arm’s-length basis and we cannot assure our stockholders that an unaffiliated third party would not be willing and able to provide to us similar services at a lower price. Because the Advisory Agreement must be renewed on an annual basis beginning August 11, 2007, our independent directors may increase the fees and other amounts payable to Wells TIMO in future renewals. If the fees and other amounts we pay Wells TIMO are increased, our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders and make investments will be reduced. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure Our charter limits the number of shares a person may own, which may discourage a takeover that could otherwise result in a premium price to our stockholders. Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted by our board of directors, no person may own more than 9.8% in value of the aggregate of our outstanding shares, or more than 9.8% (in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the aggregate of our outstanding common shares. Our initial restriction may have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of our company, including an extraordinary transaction (such as a merger, tender offer, or sale of all or substantially all of our assets) that might provide a premium price for holders of our common stock. Our charter permits our board of directors to issue stock with terms that may subordinate the rights of our common stockholders or discourage a third party from acquiring our company in a manner that could result in a premium price to our stockholders. Our board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued common stock or preferred stock and establish the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends and other distributions, qualifications, and terms or conditions of redemption of any such stock. Thus, our board of directors could authorize the issuance of preferred stock with terms and conditions that could have priority as to distributions and amounts payable upon liquidation over the rights of the holders of our common stock. Such preferred stock could also have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of our 11 Index to Financial Statements company, including an extraordinary transaction (such as a merger, tender offer, or sale of all or substantially all of our assets) that might provide a premium price to holders of our common stock. The return on an investment in us may be reduced if we are required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act; if we become an unregistered investment company, we could not continue our business. We do not intend to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. If we were obligated to register as an investment company, we would have to comply with a variety of substantive requirements under the Investment Company Act that impose, among other things: • limitations on capital structure; • restrictions on specified investments; • prohibitions on transactions with affiliates; and • compliance with reporting, record-keeping, voting, proxy disclosure, and other rules and regulations that would significantly increase our operating expenses. In order to maintain our exemption from regulation under the Investment Company Act, we must engage primarily in the business of buying real estate. If we are unable to invest a significant portion of the proceeds of our initial offering in properties, we may avoid being required to register as an investment company by temporarily investing any unused proceeds in government securities with low returns. This would reduce the cash available for distribution to investors and possibly lower our stockholders’ returns. To maintain compliance with the Investment Company Act exemption, we may be unable to sell assets we would otherwise want to sell and may need to sell assets we would otherwise wish to retain. In addition, we may have to acquire additional income- or loss-generating assets that we might not otherwise have acquired or may have to forego opportunities to acquire interests in companies that we would otherwise want to acquire and which would be important to our investment strategy. If we were required to register as an investment company but failed to do so, we would be prohibited from engaging in our business, and criminal and civil actions could be brought against us. In addition, our contracts would be unenforceable unless a court required enforcement, and a court could appoint a receiver to take control of us and liquidate our business. Our stockholders will have limited control over changes in our policies and operation; which increases the uncertainty and risks they face as a stockholder. Our board of directors determines our major policies, including our policies regarding financing, growth, debt capitalization, REIT qualification, and distributions. Our board of directors may amend or revise these and other policies without a vote of the stockholders. Under the Maryland General Corporation Law and our charter, our stockholders have a right to vote only on limited matters. Our board’s broad discretion in setting policies and our stockholders’ inability to exert control over those policies increases the uncertainty and risks they face as a stockholder. Our stockholders may not be able to sell their shares under the share redemption plan and, if our stockholders are able to sell their shares under the plan, they may not be able to recover the amount of their investment in our shares. Our board of directors has adopted a share redemption plan, but there are significant conditions and limitations that would limit our stockholders ability to sell their shares under the plan. In addition, our board of directors may amend, suspend, or terminate our share redemption plan upon 30 days’ notice and without stockholder approval. 12 Index to Financial Statements Generally, our stockholders will have to have held their shares for at least one year in order to participate in our share redemption plan. We will limit the number of shares redeemed pursuant to our share redemption plan as follows: (1) during any calendar year, we will not redeem in excess of 5% of the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the prior calendar year; and (2) we may not redeem shares on any redemption date to the extent that such redemptions would cause the amount paid for redemptions (other than those following an investor’s death or qualifying disability) since the beginning of the then-current calendar year to exceed the sum of (x) the net proceeds from the sale of shares under our distribution reinvestment plan during such period and (y) any additional amounts reserved for such purpose by our board of directors. These limits might prevent us from accommodating all redemption requests made in any year. Initially, we will repurchase shares under our share redemption plan at $9.10 per share. The initial redemption price will remain fixed until one year after we complete our offering stage. Thereafter, we will redeem shares at a price equal to 95% of the estimated per-share value of the shares, as estimated by Wells Capital or another firm chosen for that purpose. These restrictions will severely limit our stockholder’s ability to sell their shares should they require liquidity and will limit their ability to recover the value they invested. The offering price was not established on an independent basis; the actual value of our stockholder’s investment may be substantially less than what they pay. The offering price of the shares bears no relationship to our book or asset values or to any other established criteria for valuing shares. The board of directors considered the following factors in determining the offering price: • the range of offering prices of comparable unlisted REITs; and • the recommendation of our dealer-manager. Because the offering price is not based upon any independent valuation, the offering price may not be indicative of the proceeds that our stockholders would receive upon liquidation. Further, the offering price may be significantly more than the price at which the shares would trade if they were to be listed on an exchange or actively traded by broker/dealers. An investment in us will be diluted if we issue additional shares, which could reduce the overall value of the investment. Potential investors in our initial offering do not have preemptive rights to any shares we issue in the future. Our charter authorizes us to issue one billion shares of stock, of which 900 million shares are designated as common stock and 100 million are designated as preferred stock. Our board of directors may amend our charter to increase the number of authorized shares of stock without stockholder approval. After our initial offering, our board may elect to (1) sell additional shares in our initial or future public offerings; (2) issue equity interests in private offerings; (3) issue shares of our common stock upon the exercise of the options we may grant to our independent directors or to employees of Wells TIMO or Wells Capital; (4) issue shares to Wells TIMO, its successors or assigns, in payment of an outstanding fee obligation; or (5) issue shares of our common stock to sellers of properties we acquire in connection with an exchange of limited partnership interests of Wells Timberland OP. To the extent we issue additional equity interests after our initial offering, our stockholders’ percentage ownership interest in us will be diluted. Further, depending upon the terms of such transactions, most notably the offering price per share, which may be less than the price paid per share, and the value of our properties, existing stockholders also may experience a dilution in the book value of their investment in us. Payment of fees to Wells TIMO and its affiliates will reduce cash available for investment and distribution and increases the risk that our stockholders will not be able to recover the amount of their investment in our shares. Wells TIMO and its affiliates will perform services for us in connection with the offer and sale of our shares, the selection and acquisition of our investments, the management of our properties, and the administration of our other investments. We will pay Wells TIMO and its affiliates substantial fees for these services. Payment of these 13 Index to Financial Statements fees will result in immediate dilution to the value of our stockholder’s investment and will reduce the amount of cash available for investment in properties or distribution to stockholders. As a result of these substantial fees, we expect that for each share sold in our initial offering no more than $9.11 per share will be available for the purchase of properties, depending primarily upon the number of shares we sell and assuming all shares sold under our distribution reinvestment plan are sold for $9.55 per share. Wells TIMO, as the holder of the special units, also may be entitled to receive a distribution upon the sale of our properties and/or a payment in connection with the redemption of the special units upon the earlier to occur of specified events, including the listing of our shares on a national securities exchange or the termination of the Advisory Agreement. These payments to Wells TIMO increase the risk that the amount available for distribution to stockholders upon a liquidation of our portfolio would be less than the purchase price of the shares in our initial offering. Substantial up-front fees also increase the risk that our stockholders will not be able to resell their shares at a profit, even if our shares are listed on a national securities exchange. Our stockholders may be more likely to sustain a loss on their investment because our sponsor does not have as strong an economic incentive to avoid losses as do sponsors who have made more significant equity investments in the companies they organize. As of December 31, 2006, our sponsor had invested approximately $203,000 in us, primarily by funding the purchase of the following equity interests held by Wells TIMO: (1) 20,000 shares of our common stock at a price of $10.00 per share; (2) 200 common units in Wells Timberland OP at $10.00 per unit; and (3) 100 special units in Wells Timberland OP at $10.00 per unit. If we are successful in raising enough proceeds to be able to reimburse our sponsor for the approximately $1,453,000 organization and offering expenses and the approximately $669,000 of operating expenses of our initial offering, our sponsor has little exposure to loss. Without this exposure, our investors may be at a greater risk of loss because our sponsor does not have as much to lose from a decrease in the value of our shares as do those sponsors who make more significant equity investments in the companies they organize. Our operating performance could suffer if Wells Capital incurs significant losses, including those losses that may result from being the general partner of other entities. We are dependent on Wells Capital and its affiliates to select investments and conduct our operations. Thus, adverse changes to our relationship with or the financial health of Wells Capital and its affiliates, including changes arising from litigation, could hinder their ability to successfully manage our operations and our portfolio of investments. As a general partner to many WREF-sponsored programs, Wells Capital may have contingent liability for the obligations of such partnerships. Enforcement of such obligations against Wells Capital could result in a substantial reduction of its net worth. If such liabilities affected the level of services that Wells Capital could provide, our operations and financial performance could suffer. Risks Related to Investments in Timberland We will be subject to the credit risk of our anticipated customers. The failure of any of our anticipated customers to make payments due to us under our supply agreements could reduce our distributions to our stockholders. We anticipate that the customers who agree to purchase our timber under supply contracts will range in credit quality from high to low. We will assume the full credit risk of these parties, as we will have no payment guarantees under the contract or insurance if one of these parties fails to make payments to us. While we intend to acquire timberland properties in well-developed and active timber markets with access to numerous customers, we may not be successful in this endeavor. Depending upon the location of the timberland properties we acquire and the supply agreements we enter into, our supply agreements may be concentrated among a small number of customers. Even though we may have legal recourse under our contracts, we may not have any practical recourse to recover payments from some of our customers if they default on their obligations to us. Any bankruptcy or insolvency of our customers, or failure or delay by these parties to make payments to us under our agreements, would cause us to lose the revenue associated with these payments and could cause us to reduce the amount of distributions to our stockholders. 14 Index to Financial Statements Changes in demand for “higher and better use” property may reduce our anticipated land sale revenues. We anticipate that we will sell portions of our timberland property base from time to time in the event that we determine that certain properties have become more valuable for development, recreation, or conservation and other uses than for growing timber, which we refer to as higher and better use property. A number of factors, including a slow-down in commercial or residential real estate development or a reduction in the availability of public funding for conservation projects, could reduce the demand for these properties and reduce any revenues that we could realize from our land sale program. Large-scale increases in the supply of timber may affect timber prices and reduce our revenues. Some governmental agencies, principally the U.S.D.A. Forest Service and the U.S. Department of the Interior’s Bureau of Land Management, own large amounts of timberland. If these agencies choose to sell more timber from their timberland holdings than they have been selling in recent years, timber prices could fall and our revenues could be reduced. Any large reduction in the revenues we expect to earn from our timberland investments may reduce the returns, if any, we are able to achieve for our stockholders. The cyclical nature of the forest products industry could impair our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our operating results will be affected by the cyclical nature of the forest products industry. Unlike other REITs that are parties to leases and other contracts providing for relatively stable payments over a period of years, our operating results will depend on prices for timber that can experience significant variation and have been historically volatile. Like other participants in the forest products industry, we have limited direct influence over the timing and extent of price changes for cellulose fibers, timber, and wood products. Although some of the supply agreements we will enter into fix the price of our harvested timber for a period of time, these contracts may not protect us from the long-term effects of price declines and may restrict our ability to take advantage of price increases. The demand for timber and wood products is affected primarily by the level of new residential construction activity, the supply of manufactured timber products including imports of timber products and, to a lesser extent, repair and remodeling activity, and other commercial and industrial uses. The demand for timber also is affected by the demand for wood chips in the pulp and paper markets and for hardwood in the furniture and other hardwood industries. The demand for cellulose fibers is related to the demand for disposable products such as diapers and feminine hygiene products. These activities are, in turn, subject to fluctuations due to, among other factors: • changes in domestic and international economic conditions; • interest and currency rates; • population growth and changing demographics; and • seasonal weather cycles (for example, dry summers and wet winters). Decreases in the level of residential construction activity generally reduce demand for logs and wood products. This can result in lower revenues, profits, and cash flows. In addition, increases in the supply of logs and wood products, at both the local and national level, during favorable price environments also can lead to downward pressure on prices. Timber owners generally increase production volumes for logs and wood products during favorable price environments. Such increased production, however, when coupled with even modest declines in demand for these products in general, could lead to oversupply and lower prices. For example, the federal government owns a large amount of timberland. If the federal government chooses to sell more timber than it has been selling in recent years, then timber prices could fall. Additionally, wood products are subject to increasing competition from a variety of substitute products, including nonwood and engineered wood products. Oversupply can result in lower revenues, profits, and cash flows to us and could impair our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. 15 Index to Financial Statements Uninsured losses relating to the timberland properties we acquire may reduce our stockholders’ returns. The volume and value of timber that can be harvested from the timberlands we acquire may be limited by natural disasters such as fire, hurricane, earthquake, insect infestation, drought, disease, ice storms, windstorms, flooding and other weather conditions, and natural disasters, as well as other causes such as theft, trespass, condemnation, or other casualty. We do not intend to maintain insurance for any loss to our standing timber from natural disasters or other causes. Any funds used for such losses may reduce cash available for distributions to our stockholders. The forest products industry and the market for timberland properties are highly competitive, which could force us to pay higher prices for our properties or limit the amount of suitable timberland investments we are able to acquire and thereby reduce our profitability and the return on an investment in us. The forest products industry is highly competitive in terms of price and quality. We are a newly organized company with limited resources and we do not currently own any timberland. Many of our competitors, both domestic and international, have substantially greater financial and operating resources and are better able to absorb the risks of timberland investing. In recent years, the timberland investment business has experienced increasing competition for the purchase of timberland properties from both commercial and residential real estate developers as a result of urban and suburban expansion. We expect this trend to continue. Many real estate developers have substantially greater financial resources than our company. In addition, many developers tend to use high relative amounts of leverage to acquire development parcels, which we may not be willing or able to incur. Purchases of timberland parcels for development not only reduce the amount of suitable timberland investment properties, but also tend to separate larger, existing timberland properties into smaller units, which have reduced economies of scale and are less desirable for harvesting and the future marketability of the property for timber harvesting or other uses. Competition from real estate developers and others limits the amount of suitable timberland investments available for us to acquire, and any increase in the prices we expect to pay for timberland may reduce the returns, if any, we are able to achieve for our stockholders. Harvesting our timber may be subject to limitations which could impair our ability to receive income and make distributions to our stockholders. Weather conditions, timber growth cycles, property access limitations, and regulatory requirements associated with the protection of wildlife and water resources may restrict harvesting of timberlands as may other factors, including damage by fire, hurricane, earthquake, insect infestation, disease, prolonged drought, and other natural disasters. Furthermore, we may choose to invest in timberlands that are intermingled with sections of federal land managed by the U.S.D.A. Forest Service or other private owners. In many cases, access might be achieved only through a road or roads built across adjacent federal or private land. In order to access these intermingled timberlands, we would need to obtain from time to time either temporary or permanent access rights across these lands. Our revenue, net income and cash flow from our operations will be dependent to a significant extent on the continued ability to harvest timber on our timberland at adequate levels and in a timely manner. We face possible liability for environmental clean up costs and damages related to the timberland properties we acquire, which could increase our costs and reduce our profitability and cash distributions to our stockholders. We will be subject to regulation under, among other laws, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, the National Environmental Policy Act, and the Endangered Species Act, as well as comparable state laws and regulations. Violations of various statutory and regulatory programs that apply to our operations could result in civil penalties; damages, including natural resource damages; remediation expenses; potential injunctions; cease-and-desist orders; and criminal penalties. We may engage in the following activities that are subject to regulation: • forestry activities, including harvesting, planting, and road building use and maintenance; • the generation of air emissions; 16 Index to Financial Statements • the discharge of industrial wastewater and storm water; and • the generation and disposal of both hazardous and nonhazardous wastes. Laws and regulations protecting the environment have generally become more stringent in recent years and could become more stringent in the future. Some environmental statutes impose strict liability, rendering a person liable for environmental damage without regard to the person’s negligence or fault. While timberland properties do not generally carry as high a risk of environmental contamination as certain other real estate assets such as industrial properties, we may acquire timberlands subject to environmental liabilities, such as cleanup of hazardous substance contamination and other existing or potential liabilities of which we are not currently aware, even after investigations of the properties. We may not be able to recover any of these liabilities from the sellers of these properties. The cost of these cleanups could therefore increase our operating costs and reduce our profitability and cash available to make distributions to our stockholders. The existence of contamination or liability also may materially impair our ability to use or sell an affected timberland property. The Endangered Species Act and comparable state laws protect species threatened with possible extinction. A number of species present on timberlands in the United States have been, and in the future may be, protected under these laws, including the northern spotted owl, marbled murrelet, bald eagle, several trout and salmon species in the Northwest; and the red-cockaded woodpecker, bald eagle, wood stork, red hill salamander and flatwoods salamander in the South. Protection of threatened and endangered species may include restrictions on timber harvesting, road building, and other forest practices on private, federal, and state land containing the affected species. The size of the area subject to restriction will vary depending on the protected species at issue, the time of year and other factors, but can range from less than one to several thousand acres. We expect that environmental groups and interested individuals will intervene with increasing frequency in the regulatory processes in the states where we intend to seek to acquire timberland properties with the proceeds of our initial offering. For example, if we acquire timberland property in Washington State, we would be required to file a Forest Practice Application for each unit of timber to be harvested. These applications may be denied or restricted by the regulatory agency or appealed by other parties, including citizens groups. Environmental groups and interested individuals may also appeal individual forest practice applications or file petitions with the Forest Practices Board to challenge the regulations under which forest practices are approved. Appeals or actions of the regulatory agencies could delay or restrict timber harvest activities pursuant to these permits, and delays or harvest restrictions on a significant number of applications could result in increased costs. In addition to intervention in regulatory proceedings, interested groups and individuals may file or threaten to file lawsuits that seek to prevent us from implementing our operating plans. Any lawsuit or even a threatened lawsuit could delay harvesting on our timberlands. Among the remedies that could be enforced in a lawsuit is a judgment entirely preventing or restricting harvesting on a part of our targeted timberland properties. Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties and reduce distributions to our stockholders. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more timberland properties in our portfolio in response to changing economic, financial, and investment conditions is limited. The real estate market is affected by many factors that are beyond our control, including: • changes in international, national, regional, and local economic and market conditions; • changes in interest rates and in the availability, cost, and terms of debt financing; • changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances, and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies, and ordinances; • forestry costs associated with maintaining and managing timberland properties; • changes in operating expenses; and 17 Index to Financial Statements • fires, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, and other natural disasters as well as civil unrest, acts of war, and terrorism, each of which may result in uninsured losses. As part of our business plan and as necessary, we intend to sell portions of our timberland property holdings during opportunistic times. We plan on selling timberland to third parties who intend to put the timberland to a higher and better use and therefore may be willing to compensate us for the land in excess of prices we would typically receive if the land remained as timber-producing property. In acquiring a timberland property, however, and in entering into long-term supply agreements, we may agree to lock-out provisions that materially restrict us from selling that property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that property. These factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to market opportunities could result in lower distributions to our stockholders than would be available if we were able to quickly respond to such market opportunities. If we sell properties and provide financing to purchasers, defaults by the purchasers would decrease our cash flows and limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. In some instances we may sell our properties by providing financing to purchasers. When we provide financing to purchasers, we will bear the risk that the purchaser may default, which could negatively impact our cash distributions to stockholders. Even in the absence of a purchaser default, the distribution of the proceeds of sales to our stockholders, or their reinvestment in other assets, will be delayed until the promissory notes or other property we may accept upon a sale are actually paid, sold, refinanced, or otherwise disposed of. We may be unable to obtain accurate data on the volume and quality of the standing timber on a property that we intend to acquire, which may impair our ability to derive the anticipated benefits from the timberland property. The quality and reliability of data concerning timberland properties varies greatly. Professional foresters collect data on species, volumes and quantities of timber on a particular property by conducting “cruises” through the property. During these cruises, foresters sample timber stands at specified intervals and locations that have been pre-determined by forest statisticians. A cruise that is poorly designed or executed can result in misleading data. In addition, errors in compiling the data may lead to erroneous estimates of the volume and quality of the timber on a particular property. The latest inventory data available at the time of a timberland transaction may be based on cruises that are more than a year old. Timberland cruises are time-consuming and expensive, and, as a result, are not usually conducted on an annual basis. Consequently, timber inventories are often updated without a cruise by subtracting out the volume of timber that was harvested (usually an accurate number) and by adding in the volume of estimated tree growth (usually a less accurate number than the removal number). We may not be able to require an adjustment to the property purchase price from the seller if a post-acquisition cruise reveals a significant difference in timber volumes or quality from the pre-acquisition data. If we are unable to obtain or develop accurate and reliable data related to the timberland in which we invest, then our assumptions, forecasts and valuations relating to those timberlands will be incorrect. As a result, we may not be able to realize the anticipated returns from those timberlands or to sell the property for the price that we anticipated, which could negatively impact our financial condition and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Our estimates of the timber growth rates on our properties may be inaccurate, which would impair our ability to realize expected revenues from those properties. We rely upon estimates of the timber growth rates and yield when acquiring and managing our timberland properties. These estimates are central to forecasting our anticipated timber revenues and expected cash flows. Growth rates and yield estimates are developed by forest statisticians using measurements of trees in research plots on a property. The growth equations predict the rate of height and diameter growth of trees so foresters can estimate the volume of timber that may be present in the tree stand at a given age. Tree growth varies by soil type, geographic area, and climate. Inappropriate application of growth equations in forest management planning may lead to incorrect estimates of future volumes. If these estimates are incorrect our ability to manage our timberland in a profitable manner will be diminished, which may interfere with our ability to make distributions to stockholders. 18 Index to Financial Statements Changes in assessments, property tax rates and state property tax laws may reduce our net income and our ability to make distribution payments. Our expenses may be increased by assessments of our timberland properties and changes in property tax laws. We generally intend to hold our timberland properties for a substantial amount of time. Property values tend to increase over time, and, as property values increase, the related property taxes generally also increase, which would increase the amount of taxes we pay. In addition, changes to state tax laws or local initiatives could also lead to higher tax rates on our timberland properties. Because each parcel of a large timberland property is independently assessed for property tax purposes, our timberland properties may receive a higher assessment and be subject to higher property taxes. In some cases, the cost of the property taxes may exceed the income that could be produced from that parcel of property if we continue to hold it as timberland. If our timberland properties become subject to higher tax rates, the revenues that we use to pay distributions could be diminished and our stockholders may receive a lower return on their investment. Changes in land uses in the vicinity of our timberland properties may increase the amount of the property that we classify as higher better use (“HBU”) property, and property tax regulations may reduce our ability to realize the values of those HBU properties. An increase in the value of other properties in the vicinity of our timberland properties may prompt us to sell parcels of our land as higher and better use, or HBU, properties. Local, county and state regulations may prohibit us from, or penalize us for, selling a parcel of timberland for real estate development. Some states regulate the number of times that a large timberland property may be subdivided within a specified time period, which would also limit our ability to sell our HBU property. In addition, in some states timberland is subject to certain property tax policies that are designed to encourage the owner of the timberland to keep the land undeveloped. These policies may result in lower taxes per acre for our timberland properties as long as they are used for timber purposes only. However, if we sell a parcel of timberland in such states as a HBU property we may trigger tax penalties, which could require us to repay all of the tax benefits that we have received. Our inability to sell our HBU land on terms that are favorable to us could negatively affect our financial condition and our ability to pay distributions to stockholders. We may be unable to properly estimate non-timber revenues from the properties that we acquire, which would impair our ability to acquire attractive properties, as well as our ability to derive the anticipated revenues from those properties. When we acquire properties, we likely will expect to realize revenues from timber and non-timber related activities, such as the sale of conservation easements and hunting and recreation leases. Nontimber activities can contribute significantly to the revenues that we derive from a particular property. We will rely on estimates to forecast the amount and extent of revenues from non-timber related activities on our timberland properties. If our estimates concerning the revenue from non-timber related activities are incorrect, we will not be able to realize the projected revenues. If we are unable to realize the level of revenues that we expect from non-timber activities, our revenues from the underlying timberland would be less than expected and our ability to make distributions to stockholders may be negatively impacted. Our international investments will be subject to changes in global market trends that could adversely impact our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. A portion of our timberland portfolio may consist of properties located in timber-producing regions outside of the U.S. These international investments could cause our business to be subject to unexpected, uncontrollable, and rapidly changing events and circumstances in addition to those experienced in U.S. locations. Adverse changes in the following factors, among others, could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations, and ability to make distributions to our stockholders: • effects of exposure to currency other than United States dollars, due to having non-U.S. customers and foreign operations; 19 Index to Financial Statements • regulatory, social, political, labor, or economic conditions in a specific country or region; and • trade protection laws, policies, and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment, including loss or modification of exemptions for taxes and tariffs, and import and export licensing requirements. Risks Associated with Debt Financing We are likely to incur mortgage and other indebtedness, which may increase our business risks and may reduce the value of an investment in our company. We may, in some instances, acquire real properties by borrowing funds. In addition, we may incur mortgage debt and pledge some or all of our real properties as security for that debt to obtain funds to acquire additional real properties. We may borrow if we need funds to satisfy the REIT tax qualification requirement that we distribute at least 90% of our annual REIT taxable income to our stockholders. We may also borrow if we otherwise deem it necessary or advisable to ensure that we maintain our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Significant borrowings by us increase the risks of an investment in our company. If there is a shortfall between the cash flow from properties and the cash flow needed to service our indebtedness, then the amount available for distributions to stockholders may be reduced. In addition, incurring mortgage debt increases the risk of loss since defaults on indebtedness secured by a property may result in lenders initiating foreclosure actions. In that case, we could lose the property securing the loan that is in default, thus reducing the value of an investment in our company. For tax purposes, a foreclosure of any of our properties would be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure, but we would not receive any cash proceeds. We may give full or partial guarantees to lenders of mortgage debt on behalf of the entities that own our properties. When we give a guaranty on behalf of an entity that owns one of our properties, we will be responsible to the lender for satisfaction of the debt if it is not paid by such entity. If any mortgages or other indebtedness contains cross-collateralization or cross-default provisions, a default on a single loan could affect multiple properties. High mortgage rates may make it difficult for us to finance or refinance properties, which could reduce the number of properties we can acquire, our net income, and the amount of cash distributions we can make. If mortgage debt is unavailable at reasonable rates, we may not be able to finance the purchase of properties. If we place mortgage debt on properties, we run the risk of being unable to refinance the properties when the loans become due, or of being unable to refinance on favorable terms. If interest rates are higher when we refinance the properties, our income could be reduced. We may be unable to refinance properties. If any of these events occurs, our cash flow would be reduced. This, in turn, would reduce cash available for distribution to our stockholders and may hinder our ability to raise more capital by issuing more stock or by borrowing more money. Lenders may require us to enter into restrictive covenants relating to our operations, which could limit our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. When providing financing, a lender may impose restrictions on us that affect our distribution and operating policies and our ability to incur additional debt. Loan documents we enter into may contain covenants that limit our ability to further mortgage the property, discontinue any insurance coverage that we may have, or replace Wells Capital. These or other limitations may limit our flexibility and our ability to achieve our operating plans. Increases in interest rates could increase the amount of our debt payments and limit our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. We expect that we will incur indebtedness in the future. Interest we pay could reduce our cash available for distributions. Additionally, if we incur variable-rate debt, increases in interest rates would increase our interest 20 Index to Financial Statements cost, which would reduce our cash flows and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. In addition, if we need to repay existing debt during periods of high interest rates, we could be required to sell one or more of our investments in order to repay the debt, which sale at that time might not permit realization of the maximum return on such investments. We have broad authority to incur debt, and high debt levels could hinder our ability to make distributions and could decrease the value of an investment in us. Our charter does not limit us from incurring debt until our aggregate debt would exceed 300% of our net assets (generally expected to approximate 75% of the cost of our assets before noncash reserves and depreciation), though we may exceed this limit under some circumstances. High debt levels would cause us to incur higher interest charges, would result in higher debt service payments, and could be accompanied by restrictive covenants. These factors could limit the amount of cash we have available to distribute and could result in a decline in the value of an investment in our company. Actions of our joint venture partners could reduce the returns on our joint venture investments and decrease stockholder returns. We may enter into joint ventures with third parties to acquire properties. We may also purchase properties in joint ventures or in partnerships, co-tenancies, or other co-ownership arrangements. Such investments may involve risks not otherwise present with other methods of investment in real estate, including, for example: • the possibility that our co-venturer, co-tenant, or partner in an investment might become bankrupt; • that such co-venturer, co-tenant, or partner may at any time have economic or business interests or goals that are or that become inconsistent with our business interests or goals; or • that such co-venturer, co-tenant, or partner may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. Any of the above might subject a property to liabilities in excess of those contemplated and thus reduce stockholder returns. Federal Income Tax Risks Failure to qualify as a REIT would reduce our net income and cash available for distributions. Alston & Bird LLP, our legal counsel, has rendered an opinion to us in connection with our initial offering that we will qualify as a REIT, based upon our representations as to the manner in which we are and will be owned, invest in assets and operate, among other things. However, our qualification as a REIT will depend upon our ability to meet, on an ongoing basis, requirements regarding our organization and ownership, distributions of our income, the nature and diversification of our income and assets, and other tests imposed by the Internal Revenue Code. This means that we may fail to satisfy the REIT requirements in the future. Future legislative, judicial, or administrative changes to the federal income tax laws could be applied retroactively, which could result in our disqualification as a REIT. If we fail to qualify as a REIT for any taxable year, we will be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at corporate rates. In addition, we would generally be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year of losing our REIT status. Losing our REIT status would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders because of the additional tax liability. In addition, distributions to stockholders would no longer qualify for the dividends paid deduction, and we would no longer be required to make distributions. If this occurs, we might be required to borrow funds or liquidate some investments in order to pay the applicable tax. 21 Index to Financial Statements Our stockholders may have current tax liability on distributions they elect to reinvest in our common stock. If our stockholders participate in our distribution reinvestment plan, they will be deemed to have received, and for income tax purposes will be taxed on, the amount reinvested in shares of our common stock to the extent the amount reinvested was not a tax-free return of capital. In addition, our stockholders will be treated for tax purposes as having received an additional distribution to the extent the shares are purchased at a discount to fair market value. As a result, unless they are a tax-exempt entity, they may have to use funds from other sources to pay their tax liability on the value of the shares of common stock received. Even if we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we may be subject to other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we may be subject to some federal, state, and local taxes on our income or property. For example: • In order to qualify as a REIT, we must distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income to our stockholders (which is determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction or net capital gain). To the extent that we satisfy the distribution requirement but distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on the undistributed income. • We will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions we pay in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income, and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. • If we have net income from the sale of foreclosure property that we hold primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business or other nonqualifying income from foreclosure property, we must pay a tax on that income at the highest corporate income tax rate. • If we sell a property, other than foreclosure property, that we hold primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business, our gain would be subject to the 100% “prohibited transaction” tax. • Our taxable REIT subsidiaries will be subject to tax on their taxable income. To maintain our REIT status, we may be forced to forego otherwise attractive opportunities, which could delay or hinder our ability to meet our investment objectives and lower stockholder returns. To qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy tests on an ongoing basis concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, nature of our assets, and the amounts we distribute to our stockholders. We may be required to make distributions to stockholders at times when it would be more advantageous to reinvest cash in our business or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits. The extent of our use of taxable REIT subsidiaries may affect the value of our common stock relative to the share price of other REITs. We intend to conduct a portion of our business activities through one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries, or TRSs. A TRS is a fully taxable corporation that may earn income that would not be qualifying REIT income if earned directly by us. Our use of TRSs will enable us to engage in non-REIT qualifying business activities, such as the sale of higher and better use properties. However, under the Internal Revenue Code, no more than 20% of the value of the assets of a REIT may be represented by securities of one or more TRSs. This limitation may affect our ability to increase the size of our non-REIT qualifying operations. Furthermore, because the income earned by our TRSs will be subject to corporate income tax and will not be subject to the requirement to distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income to our stockholders, our use of TRSs may cause our common stock to be valued differently than the shares of other REITs that do not use TRSs as extensively as we expect to use them. 22 Index to Financial Statements Certain of our business activities are potentially subject to the prohibited transaction tax, which could reduce the return on an investment in us. As a REIT, we will be subject to a 100% tax on any net income from “prohibited transactions.” In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property to customers in the ordinary course of business. Sales by us of higher and better use property at the REIT level could, in certain circumstances, constitute prohibited transactions. We intend to avoid the 100% prohibited transaction tax by conducting activities that would be prohibited transactions through one or more TRSs. We may not, however, always be able to identify properties that will become part of our “dealer” land sales business. Therefore, if we sell any higher and better use properties at the REIT level that we incorrectly identify as property not held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business or that subsequently become properties held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business, we may be subject to the 100% prohibited transactions tax. Retirement Plan Risks If our stockholders fail to meet the fiduciary and other standards under ERISA or the Internal Revenue Code as a result of an investment in our stock, they could be subject to criminal and civil penalties. There are special considerations that apply to pension, profit-sharing trusts, or IRAs investing in our shares. If our stockholders are investing the assets of a pension, profit-sharing, 401(k), Keogh, or other qualified retirement plan or the assets of an IRA in our common stock, they should satisfy themselves that: • their investment is consistent with their fiduciary obligations under ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code; • their investment is made in accordance with the documents and instruments governing their plan or IRA, including their plan’s investment policy; • their investment satisfies the prudence and diversification requirements of Sections 404(a)(1)(B) and 404(a)(1)(C) of ERISA and other applicable provisions of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code; • their investment will not impair the liquidity of the plan or IRA; • their investment will not produce “unrelated business taxable income” for the plan or IRA; • they will be able to value the assets of the plan annually in accordance with ERISA requirements and applicable provisions of the plan or IRA; and • their investment will not constitute a prohibited transaction under Section 406 of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Internal Revenue Code. Failure to satisfy the fiduciary standards of conduct and other applicable requirements of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code may result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, and can subject the fiduciary to equitable remedies. In addition, if an investment in our shares constitutes a prohibited transaction under ERISA or the Internal Revenue Code, the fiduciary who authorized or directed the investment may be subject to the imposition of excise taxes with respect to the amount invested. The annual statement of value that we will send to stockholders subject to ERISA and to certain other plan stockholders is only an estimate and may not reflect the actual value of our shares. The annual statement of value will report the estimated value of each share of common stock as of the close of our fiscal year. Wells Capital or another firm we choose for this purpose will prepare an annual estimated value of our shares based on the estimated amount that would be received if our assets were sold as of the close of the fiscal year and if the proceeds, together with our other funds, were distributed pursuant to a liquidation. For 12 months after the completion of our last public equity offering prior to the listing of our shares on a national securities exchange, Wells Capital will use the most recent price paid to acquire a share in that offering (ignoring 23 Index to Financial Statements purchase price discounts for certain categories of purchasers) as its estimated per-share value of our shares. After that time, we would publish a per-share valuation determined by Wells Capital or another firm chosen for that purpose. No independent appraisals of our assets will be required during the initial period or at any time thereafter. Other noteworthy limitations to such estimated value of our shares include: • a value included in the annual statement may not actually be realized by us or by our stockholders upon liquidation; • stockholders may not realize that value if they attempted to sell their shares; and • using the estimated statement of value, or the method used to establish the value, may not comply with any reporting and disclosure or annual valuation requirements under ERISA or other applicable law. We will stop providing annual statements of value if our common stock becomes listed for trading on a national securities exchange. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We had no unresolved SEC staff comments as of December 31, 2006. 