Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related To Our Business Our loan portfolio includes loans with a higher risk of loss. We originate commercial real estate loans, commercial business loans, consumer loans, and residential mortgage loans (including home equity loans) primarily within our market area. Commercial real estate, commercial business, and consumer loans, which comprised in the aggregate 21.8% of our total loan portfolio at December 31, 2011; may expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, commercial real estate and commercial business loans may also involve relatively large loan balances to individual borrowers or groups of borrowers. These loans also have greater credit risk than residential real estate for the following reasons: ● Commercial Real Estate Loans. Repayment is dependent upon income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. ● Commercial Business Loans. Repayment is generally dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower’s business. ● Consumer Loans. Consumer loans (such as personal lines of credit) may or may not be collateralized with assets that provide an adequate source of payment of the loan due to depreciation, damage, or loss. The economic downturn has resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general. Higher prices for businesses and consumers and high unemployment could affect our loan portfolio, if business owners or consumers are not able to make loan payments. As a result of the economic downturn, we have noticed an increase in our delinquent loans. Any further downturn in the real estate market or our national or local economy could adversely affect the value of the properties securing the loans or revenues from the borrower’s business thereby increasing the risk of non-performing loans. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. We therefore may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Any further downturn in the real estate market or the local economy could exacerbate this risk. We review our allowance for loan losses on a monthly basis to ensure that it is funded adequately to cover any anticipated losses. 37 Material additions to our allowance for loan losses also would materially decrease our net income, and the charge-off of loans may cause us to increase the allowance for loan losses. Our provision for loan losses in 2011 was $415,000 and during 2010 increased by $1.9 million in comparison to 2009 primarily due to loan charge-offs. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. We rely on our loan quality reviews, our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors, in determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. The high percentage of traditional real estate loans in our loan portfolio has been one of the more significant factors we have taken into account in evaluating our allowance for loan losses and provision for loan losses. If we were to further increase the amount of loans in our portfolio other than traditional real estate loans, we may decide to make increased provisions for loan losses. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Low demand for real estate loans may lower our profitability. Making loans secured by real estate, including one-to four-family and commercial real estate, is our primary business and primary source of revenue. If customer demand for real estate loans decreases, our profits may decrease because our alternative investments, primarily securities, generally earn less income than real estate loans. Customer demand for loans secured by real estate could be reduced due to weaker economic conditions, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or an increase in interest rates. Interest rates on deposit products have steadily declined at a greater pace than the rate decline on loan products since 2008, resulting in a positive net interest margin during the last three years. Furthermore, we experienced loan growth during the last three years, especially in the Erie County market area, which resulted in increased net interest income. However, loan demand slowed down during 2011 and 2010 due to uncertain economic conditions and high unemployment rates, which resulted in static loan interest income. If rates begin to rise, loan demand may continue to be slow, and deposit expenses may increase, which could lower our profitability. We have opened new branches and expect to open additional new branches in the near future. Opening new branches reduces our short-term profitability due to one-time fixed expenses coupled with low levels of income earned by the branches until their customer bases are built. We last opened a new branch in Depew, New York in April 2010. In addition, we may continue to expand through de novo branching. The expense associated with building and staffing new branches will significantly increase our non-interest expense, with compensation and occupancy costs constituting the largest amount of increased costs. Losses are expected from new branches for some time as the expenses associated with it are largely fixed and typically greater than the income earned as a branch builds up its customer base. Our management has projected that it will take approximately 18 to 24 months for new branches to become profitable after they have opened. There can be no assurance that our branch expansion strategy will result in increased earnings, or that it will result in increased earnings within a reasonable period of time. We expect that the success of our branching strategy will depend largely on the ability of our staff to market the deposit and loan products offered by us. Depending upon locating acceptable sites, as well as the economic environment and projected demand in targeted market areas, we anticipate opening one or two branches every 12 to 24 months. The results of our operations may be adversely affected if asset valuations cause other-than-temporary impairment charges. In 2011, the Company determined that its investment in common stock of a small, local payment processing company was other than temporary impaired and had a non-cash, pre-tax, impairment charge of $500,000. We may be required to record future impairment charges on our investment securities or other assets if they suffer declines in value that are considered other-than-temporary. Numerous factors, including lack of liquidity for re-sales of certain investment securities, absence of reliable pricing information for investment securities, adverse changes in business climate, adverse actions by regulators, or unanticipated changes in the competitive environment could have a negative effect on our investment portfolio or other assets in future periods. If an impairment charge is significant enough it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity, its ability to pay dividends to shareholders, and its regulatory capital ratios. 38 Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations and financial condition are significantly affected by changes in interest rates. Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on our interest-bearing liabilities. Increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. We also are subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and securities. Our earnings may be adversely impacted by a decrease in interest rates on residential mortgage loans. Low rates on these loan products may result in an increase in prepayments, as borrowers refinance their loans. If we cannot re-invest the funds received from prepayments at a comparable spread, net interest income could be reduced. Also, in a falling interest rate environment, certain categories of deposits may reach a point where market forces prevent further reduction in interest paid on those products. The net effect of these circumstances is reduced net interest income and possibly net interest rate spread. As rates rise, we expect loan applications to decrease, prepayment speeds to slowdown and the interest rate on our loan portfolio to remain static. Furthermore, interest rates on short term liabilities, such as time deposits and borrowings will rise resulting in increased interest expense. A majority of our long term assets in our loan portfolio are fixed rate loans. Therefore, in an increasing rate environment, our interest income may remain static while the yields paid on our deposits and borrowings increase causing a narrowing of our net interest rate spread and a decrease in our earnings. We depend on our executive officers and key personnel to implement our business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services. We believe that our growth and future success will depend in large part upon the skills of our management team. The competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry is intense, and the loss of our key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing key personnel or attract additional qualified personnel. Although we have an employment agreement with our President and Chief Executive Officer, that contains a non-compete provision, the loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers and key personnel could impair our ability to continue to develop our business strategy. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer accounts, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if any does occur, that it will be adequately addressed. Additionally, we outsource our data processing to third parties. If the third party provider encounters difficulties or if we have difficulty in communicating with such third party, it will significantly affect our ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions, which would significantly affect our business operations. Furthermore, breaches of such third party’s technology may also cause reimbursable loss to our consumer and business customers, through no fault of our own. Fraud attacks targeting customer-controlled devices, plastic payment card terminals, and merchant data collection points provide another source of potential loss, again through no fault of our own. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of information systems used to process customer transactions could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company maintains a system of internal controls to mitigate against such occurrences and maintains insurance coverage for exposures that are insurable. The Company regularly tests internal controls to ensure that they are appropriate and functioning as designed. 39 We continually encounter technological change. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Our largest competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse effect on us. Our ability to grow may be limited. We intend to seek to expand our banking franchise, organically and by acquiring other financial institutions or branches and other financial service providers. However, we have no specific plans for expansion or acquisitions at this time. Our ability to grow through selective acquisitions of other financial institutions or branches will depend on successfully identifying, acquiring and integrating those institutions or branches. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate organic growth or identify attractive acquisition candidates, make acquisitions on favorable terms or successfully integrate any acquired institutions or branches. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and, as a result, investors and depositors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, the trading price of our stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”) and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), requires us to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting and provide an annual management report on our internal control over financial reporting, including, among other matters, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to identify and correct any significant deficiencies in the design or operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or fail to prevent fraud, current and potential shareholders and depositors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, the trading price of our stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. Public Shareholders Do Not Exercise Voting Control Over Us. A majority of our voting stock is owned by Lake Shore, MHC. Lake Shore, MHC is controlled by its board of directors, who consist of those persons who are members of the board of directors of Lake Shore Bancorp and Lake Shore Savings. Lake Shore, MHC elects all members of the board of directors of Lake Shore Bancorp, and, as a general matter, controls the outcome of all matters presented to the stockholders of Lake Shore Bancorp for resolution by vote, except for matters that require a vote greater than a majority vote. Consequently, Lake Shore, MHC, acting through its board of directors, is able to control the business and operations of Lake Shore Bancorp and may be able to prevent any challenge to the ownership or control of Lake Shore Bancorp by stockholders other than Lake Shore, MHC. There is no assurance that Lake Shore, MHC will not take actions that the public stockholders believe are against their interests. 40 Risks Related To Recent Developments And The Banking Industry Generally Financial reform legislation enacted by Congress will, among other things, tighten capital standards, create a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and result in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. Congress enacted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), which has significantly changed the bank regulatory structure and affected the lending, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act eliminated our former primary federal regulator, the Office of Thrift Supervision, and required Lake Shore Savings to be regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the primary federal regulator for national banks), effective July 21, 2011. The Dodd-Frank Act also authorized the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to supervise and regulate all savings and loan holding companies like Lake Shore, MHC, and Lake Shore Bancorp, in addition to bank holding companies which it currently regulates, effective July 21, 2011. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the Federal Reserve Board to set minimum capital levels for depository holding companies that are as stringent as those required for the insured depository subsidiaries, and the components of Tier 1 capital would be restricted to capital instruments that are currently considered to be Tier 1 capital for insured depository institutions. Savings and loan holding companies are subject to a five year transition period before the holding company capital requirement will apply. The legislation also established a floor for capital of insured depository institutions that cannot be lower than the standards in effect today, and directs the federal banking regulators to implement new leverage and capital requirements within 18 months of the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act that takes into account off-balance sheet activities and other risks, including risks relating to securitized products and derivatives. The Dodd-Frank Act also created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions such as Lake Shore Savings, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks and savings institutions with $10 billion or less in assets will be examined by their applicable bank regulators. The new legislation also weakens the federal preemption available for national banks and federal savings associations, and gives state attorney generals the ability to enforce applicable federal consumer protection laws. The legislation also broadened the base for Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance assessments. Effective April 2011, assessments are now based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increased the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, retroactive to January 1, 2008, and non-interest bearing transaction accounts have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2012. The Dodd-Frank Act increased stockholder influence over boards of directors by requiring companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to depository holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded or not. Further, the legislation requires that originators of securitized loans retain a percentage of the risk for transferred loans, directs the Federal Reserve Board to regulate pricing of certain debit card interchange fees and contains a number of reforms related to mortgage origination. 41 It is difficult to predict at this time what effect the new legislation and implementing regulations will have on community banks with regard to the lending and credit practices of such banks. Moreover, the legislation requires various federal agencies to promulgate numerous and extensive implementing regulations over the next several years. Although the substance and scope of these regulations cannot be determined at this time, it is expected that the legislation and implementing regulations, particularly those relating to the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, will increase our operating and compliance costs. Our business may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial services industry and U.S. and global credit markets. Beginning in the latter half of 2007 and continuing through 2011, negative developments in the capital markets and the economic recession have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general. Although there are some indicators of improving economic conditions, there can be no assurance that such conditions will continue to improve and it is also possible that conditions will again deteriorate. Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business. Loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions resulting from, among other factors, a weak economy and a decline in the value of the collateral supporting their loans. The competition for deposits has increased significantly due to liquidity concerns at many of these same institutions. In an economic environment characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, stock prices of bank holding companies, like ours, have been negatively affected by the current condition of the financial markets, as has our ability, if needed, to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past four years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of real estate related loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provision for loan losses. As a result, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the impact of new legislation, such as the Dodd-Frank Act, in response to those developments could adversely impact our operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. The Dodd-Frank Act’s elimination of the OTS may adversely affect Lake Shore, MHC’s ability to waive dividends, which would adversely affect our ability to pay dividends and the value of our common stock. The value of the Company’s common stock is significantly affected by our ability to pay dividends to our public shareholders. The Company’s ability to pay dividends to our shareholders is subject to the ability of the Bank to make capital distributions to the Company, and also to the availability of cash at the holding company level in the event earnings are not sufficient to pay dividends. Moreover, our ability to pay dividends and the amount of such dividends is affected by the ability of Lake Shore, MHC, our mutual holding company, to waive the receipt of dividends declared by the Company. Lake Shore, MHC currently waives its right to receive most of its dividends on its shares of the Company, which means that the Company has more cash resources to pay dividends to our public stockholders than if Lake Shore, MHC accepted such dividends. Lake Shore, MHC is required to obtain Federal Reserve Board approval before it may waive its receipt of dividends, and the current dividend waiver approval is effective through the quarter ending March 31, 2012. 42 The Dodd-Frank Act requires federally-chartered mutual holding companies to give the Federal Reserve Board notice before waiving the receipt of dividends, and provides that in the case of “grandfathered” mutual holding companies, like Lake Shore, MHC, the Federal Reserve Board “may not object” to a dividend waiver if the board of directors of the mutual holding company waiving dividends determines that the waiver: (i) would not be detrimental to the safe and sound operation of the subsidiary savings bank; and (ii) is consistent with the board’s fiduciary duties to members of the mutual holding company. To qualify as a grandfathered mutual holding company, a mutual holding company must have been formed, issued stock and waived dividends prior to December 1, 2009. The Dodd-Frank Act further provides that the Federal Reserve Board may not consider waived dividends in determining an appropriate exchange ratio upon the conversion of a grandfathered mutual holding company to stock form. In September 2011, however, the Federal Reserve Board issued an interim final rule that also requires as a condition to waiving dividends, that each mutual holding company obtain the approval of a majority of the eligible votes of its members within 12 months prior to the declaration of the dividend being waived. The Federal Reserve Board has requested comments on the interim final rule, and there can be no assurance that the rule will be amended to eliminate or modify the member vote requirement for dividend waivers by grandfathered mutual holding companies, such as Lake Shore, MHC. In the past, the Federal Reserve Board generally has not allowed dividend waivers by mutual bank holding companies and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the Federal Reserve Board will approve dividend waivers by Lake Shore, MHC in the future, or what conditions the Federal Reserve Board may place on any dividend waivers. Recent negative developments in the financial industry and the credit markets may subject us to additional regulation. As a result of the recent global financial crisis, the potential exists for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards to be promulgated, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry and credit markets, and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments, may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and may adversely impact our financial performance. Our local economy may affect our future growth possibilities. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in our current market area, which is primarily located in Chautauqua County, New York and Erie County, New York. Unlike many larger institutions, we are not able to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies and geographic locations. If the communities in which we operate do not grow, or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may be negatively affected. A continued weak economy could lead to a deterioration of the credit quality of our loan portfolio and reduce our level of customer deposits, which in turn would hurt our business. Moreover, the value of real estate or other collateral that may secure our loans could be adversely affected. Competition in our primary market area may reduce our ability to attract and retain deposits and originate loans. We operate in a competitive market for both attracting deposits, which is our primary source of funds, and originating loans. Historically, our most direct competition for savings deposits has come from credit unions, community banks, large commercial banks and thrift institutions in our primary market area. Particularly in times of extremely low or extremely high interest rates, we have faced additional significant competition for depositors from brokerage firms and other firms’ short-term money market securities and corporate and government securities. Our competition for loans comes principally from mortgage brokers, commercial banks, other thrift institutions, and insurance companies. Competition for loan originations and deposits may limit our future growth and earnings prospects. 43 Changes in the Federal Reserve Board’s monetary or fiscal policies could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our earnings will be affected by domestic economic conditions and the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States government and its agencies. The Federal Reserve Board has, and is likely to continue to have, an important impact on the operating results of banks through its power to implement national monetary policy, among other things, in order to curb inflation or combat a recession. The Federal Reserve Board affects the levels of bank loans, investments and deposits through its control over the issuance of United States government securities, its regulation of the discount rate applicable to member banks and its influence over reserve requirements to which member banks are subject. We cannot predict the nature or impact of future changes in monetary and fiscal policies. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 44 