Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related To Our Business Our Loan Portfolio Includes Loans With A Higher Risk Of Loss. We originate commercial mortgage loans, commercial loans, consumer loans, and residential mortgage loans primarily within our market area. Commercial mortgage, commercial, and consumer loans may expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, commercial real estate and commercial business loans may also involve relatively large loan balances to individual borrowers or groups of borrowers. These loans also have greater credit risk than residential real estate for the following reasons: • Commercial Mortgage Loans. Repayment is dependent upon income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. • Commercial Loans. Repayment is generally dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower’s business. • Consumer Loans. Consumer loans (such as personal lines of credit) may or may not be collateralized with assets that provide an adequate source of payment of the loan due to depreciation, damage, or loss. There is currently a downturn in the national economy primarily due to financial crisis and increasing unemployment rates. While all financial institutions have been impacted by the economic conditions, the sub-prime lending issues have not affected Western New York in the same manner as other areas of the country and are not expected to affect our loan portfolio. Higher prices for businesses and consumers and increasing unemployment could affect our loan portfolio, if business owners or consumers are not able to make loan payments. As a result of the economic downturn, we have noticed an increase in our delinquent loans. Any further downturn in the real estate market or our national or local economy could adversely affect the value of the properties securing the loans or revenues from the borrower’s business thereby increasing the risk of non-performing loans. If Our Allowance For Loan Losses Is Not Sufficient To Cover Actual Loan Losses, Our Earnings Could Decrease. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. We therefore may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Any further downturn in the real estate market or the local economy could exacerbate this risk. We review our allowance for loan losses on a monthly basis to ensure that it is funded adequately to cover any anticipated losses. Material additions to our allowance for loan losses also would materially decrease our net income, and the charge-off of loans may cause us to increase the allowance. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. We rely on our loan quality reviews, our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors, in determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. The high percentage of traditional real estate loans in our loan portfolio has been one of the more significant factors we have taken into account in evaluating our allowance for loan losses and provision for loan losses. If we were to further increase the amount of loans in our portfolio other than traditional real estate loans, we may decide to make increased provisions for loan losses. In addition, bank 41 Table of Contents regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We believe that the current amount of allowance for loan losses is sufficient to absorb inherent losses in our loan portfolio. Low Demand For Real Estate Loans May Lower Our Profitability. Making loans secured by real estate, including one-to-four family and commercial real estate, is our primary business and primary source of revenue. If customer demand for real estate loans decreases, our profits may decrease because our alternative investments, primarily securities, generally earn less income than real estate loans. Customer demand for loans secured by real estate could be reduced due to weaker economic conditions, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or an increase in interest rates. For example, in 2006, interest rates remained steady, and loan demand met our projections. In 2007, interest rates began to fall towards the end of the year, as a result of the sub-prime lending crisis. During 2006 and 2007 the weighted average interest rate on our loan portfolio was not enough to offset the higher interest expenses incurred on our deposit portfolio, which resulted in lower profitability. In 2008, interest rates on deposit products began to steadily decline, while rates on loan products remained steady. In 2008 loan growth was experienced in the Erie County market, and resulted in increased net interest income, however, there can be no assurance that such growth will continue. We Have Opened New Branches And Expect To Open Additional New Branches In The Near Future. Opening New Branches Which Reduces Our Short-Term Profitability Due To One-Time Fixed Expenses Coupled With Low Levels Of Income Earned By The Branches Until Their Customer Bases Are Built. We opened two new branches in Orchard Park and East Amherst, New York in 2003, one in Hamburg, New York in December 2005 and one more in Kenmore, New York in December 2008. In addition, we may continue to expand through de novo branching. The expense associated with building and staffing new branches will significantly increase our non-interest expense, with compensation and occupancy costs constituting the largest amount of increased costs. Losses are expected from new branches for some time as the expenses associated with it are largely fixed and is typically greater than the income earned as a branch builds up its customer base. Our management has projected that it will take approximately 18 to 24 months for the Kenmore branch to become profitable. The branch we opened in Hamburg in 2005 is not yet profitable, but is expected to be profitable by the end of 2009. All of our other full-service branches are individually profitable. There can be no assurance that our branch expansion strategy will result in increased earnings, or that it will result in increased earnings within a reasonable period of time. We expect that the success of our branching strategy will depend largely on the ability of our staff to market the deposit and loan products offered by us. Depending upon locating acceptable sites, we anticipate opening one or two branches over the next several years. We Depend On Our Executive Officers And Key Personnel To Implement Our Business Strategy And Could Be Harmed By The Loss Of Their Services. We believe that our growth and future success will depend in large part upon the skills of our management team. The competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry is intense, and the loss of our key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing key personnel or attract additional qualified personnel. Although we have an employment agreement with our President and Chief Executive Officer that contains a non-compete provision, the loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers and key personnel could impair our ability to continue to develop our business strategy. Our Ability To Grow May Be Limited If We Cannot Make Acquisitions. We intend to seek to expand our banking franchise, internally and by acquiring other financial institutions or branches and other financial service providers. However, we have no specific plans for expansion or acquisitions at this time. Our ability to grow through selective acquisitions of other financial institutions or branches will depend on successfully identifying, acquiring and integrating those institutions or branches. We 42 Table of Contents cannot assure you that we will be able to generate internal growth or identify attractive acquisition candidates, make acquisitions on favorable terms or successfully integrate any acquired institutions or branches. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and, as a result, investors and depositors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, the trading price of our stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”) and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), requires us to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting and provide an annual management report on our internal control over financial reporting, including, among other matters, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to identify and correct any significant deficiencies in the design or operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or fail to prevent fraud, current and potential stockholders and depositors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, the trading price of our stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. Risks Related To Recent Developments And The Banking Industry Generally Recent negative developments in the financial services industry and U.S. and global credit markets may adversely impact our operations and results. Negative developments in the capital markets in the latter half of 2007 and in 2008 and the expectation of the general economic downturn continuing in 2009 have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general. Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business. In an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, stock prices of bank holding companies, like ours, have been negatively affected, as has our ability, if needed, to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past two years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of real estate related loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provision for loan losses. As a result of the current mortgage crisis and the economic slowdown, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments could adversely impact our operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. There can be no assurance that recently enacted legislation will help stabilize the U.S. financial system. As discussed further above in Part I, Item 1 “Business—Regulation—Developments in Regulation of the Financial Sector,” since October 2008, numerous legislative actions have been taken in response to the financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets, including the following: • The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, or EESA, was enacted on October 3, 2008, and provided the Treasury with the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of troubled assets, which include residential or commercial mortgages and any securities, obligations, or other instruments that are based on or related to such mortgages for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. EESA also provided for the temporary increase of federal deposit insurance coverage levels from $100,000 to $250,000 per deposit category, per depositor, per institution, through December 31, 2009. 43 Table of Contents On October 14, 2008, the Treasury announced the Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”) under EESA, pursuant to which it would purchase senior preferred stock and warrants to purchase common stock from participating financial institutions. After careful consideration, we withdrew our application to participate in the CPP in February 2009. Our decision to withdraw the application was based on our determination that we are a well-capitalized institution and have no need for the CPP funds to continue with our strategic plans for growth and operation, in addition to the fact that the mutual holding company CPP term sheet has not yet been finalized. • During October 2008, the FDIC announced the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (the “TLGP”), under which it would temporarily guarantee certain new debt issued by insured banks and qualifying bank holding companies and expand its insurance to cover all non-interest bearing transaction accounts through December 31, 2009. We participate in the TLGP component which allows us to provide full FDIC insurance coverage for non-interest bearing transaction accounts, but we opted out of the component relating to the complete guarantee of newly issued senior unsecured debt. Our participation in the TLGP will require the payment of additional insurance premiums to the FDIC. Additionally, we may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in the future because market developments have significantly depleted the Deposit Insurance Fund and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. On February 27, 2009, the FDIC adopted an interim rule to impose a 20 basis point emergency special assessment on insured institutions. The assessment will be based on deposits as of June 30, 2009 and collected on September 30, 2009. After June 30, 2009, the FDIC may impose an additional assessment of up to 10 basis points if the condition of the banking industry continues to decline. • On February 10, 2009, the Treasury announced the Financial Stability Plan under the EESA, which is intended to further stabilize financial institutions and stimulate lending across a broad range of economic sectors. On February 25, 2009, the Treasury announced the Capital Assistance Program (“CAP”), which is a new capital program under the Financial Stability Plan. The purpose of the CAP is to restore confidence throughout the financial system by ensuring that the nation’s largest banking institutions have a sufficient capital cushion against larger than expected future losses, should they occur due to a more severe economic environment, and to support lending to creditworthy borrowers. • On February 17, 2009, President Obama signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”), a broad economic stimulus package that included additional restrictions on, and potential additional regulation of, financial institutions. 44 Table of Contents Each of these programs was implemented to help stabilize and provide liquidity to the financial system. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA and its implementing regulations, the CPP, the Financial Stability Plan, the ARRA, the FDIC programs, or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets. The failure of the EESA, the FDIC or the U.S. government to stabilize the financial markets and the continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Recent negative developments in the financial industry and the credit markets may subject us to additional regulation. As a result of the recent global financial crisis, the potential exists for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards to be promulgated, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry and credit markets, and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments, may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and may adversely impact our financial performance. Our local economy may affect our future growth possibilities. We are in uncertain economic times, including uncertainty with respect to financial markets that have been volatile as a result of sub-prime mortgage related and other matters. Unlike many larger institutions, we are not able to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies and geographic locations. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in our current market area, which is primarily located in Chautauqua and Erie Counties, New York. The financial crisis has negatively impacted our local economy and any further downtown in our local economy may further limit funds available for deposit and may negatively affect our borrowers’ ability to repay their loans on a timely basis. If the communities in which we operate do not grow, or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may be negatively affected. A prolonged economic downturn would likely lead to a deterioration of the credit quality of our loan portfolio and reduce our level of customer deposits, which in turn would hurt our business. If the current economic downturn in the economy as a whole, or in our geographic market areas, continues for a prolonged period, borrowers may be less likely to repay their loans as scheduled or at all. Moreover, the value of real estate or other collateral that may secure our loans could be adversely affected. Competition In Our Primary Market Area May Reduce Our Ability To Attract And Retain Deposits And Originate Loans. We operate in a competitive market for both attracting deposits, which is our primary source of funds, and originating loans. Historically, our most direct competition for savings deposits has come from credit unions, community banks, large commercial banks and thrift institutions in our primary market area. Particularly in times of extremely low or extremely high interest rates, we have faced additional significant competition for investors’ funds from brokerage firms and other firms’ short-term money market securities and corporate and government securities. Our competition for loans comes principally from mortgage brokers, commercial banks, other thrift institutions, and insurance companies. Competition for loan originations and deposits may limit our future growth and earnings prospects. 45 Table of Contents Changes In Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect Our Results Of Operations And Financial Condition. Our results of operations and financial condition are significantly affected by changes in interest rates. Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on our interest-bearing liabilities. Increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. We also are subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and securities. Our earnings may be adversely impacted by a decrease in interest rates on residential mortgage loans. Low rates on these loan products may result in an increase in prepayments, as borrowers refinance their loans. If we cannot re-invest the funds received from prepayments at a comparable spread, net interest income could be reduced. Also, in a falling interest rate environment, certain categories of deposits may reach a point where market forces prevent further reduction in interest paid on those product. The net effect of these circumstances is reduced net interest income and possibly net interest spread. At December 31, 2008, 84.2% of our loans with contractual maturities of greater than one year had an average fixed rate of 5.94% which is higher than current yields on these products. We expect a portion of our existing loan portfolio to reprice in 2009. In addition, 65.1% of our certificates of deposit, with an average interest rate of 3.28%, will mature within one year, and 38.2% of our borrowed funds, with an average interest rate of 3.64%, will contractually mature within one year. Therefore, in a decreasing rate environment, our interest income may decrease more rapidly than the yields paid on our deposits and borrowings causing a narrowing of our net interest rate spread and a decrease in our earnings. Changes In The Federal Reserve’s Monetary Or Fiscal Policies Could Adversely Affect Our Results Of Operations And Financial Condition. Our earnings will be affected by domestic economic conditions and the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States government and its agencies. The Federal Reserve Board has, and is likely to continue to have, an important impact on the operating results of commercial banks through its power to implement national monetary policy, among other things, in order to curb inflation or combat a recession. The Federal Reserve Board affects the levels of bank loans, investments and deposits through its control over the issuance of United States government securities, its regulation of the discount rate applicable to member banks and its influence over reserve requirements to which member banks are subject. We cannot predict the nature or impact of future changes in monetary and fiscal policies. 46 Table of Contents 