Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors that could adversely affect the Company’s ability to obtain favorable results and maintain or increase stockholder value include, among other things: • The Company is a development stage company with no operating history and, accordingly, there is no basis on which to evaluate the Company’s ability to achieve its business objective. The Company is a recently incorporated development stage company with no operating results to date. Since the Company does not have an operating history, there is no basis upon which to evaluate the Company’s ability to achieve its business objective, which is to effect a Business Combination. The Company will not generate any revenue until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a Business Combination. • If the Company is forced to liquidate before a Business Combination and distribute the Trust Account, the Company’s public stockholders will receive less than $6.00 per share and the Company’s warrants will expire worthless. The Company must complete a Business Combination with a fair market value of at least 80% of its net assets (excluding the amount held in the Trust Account representing a portion of the underwriters’ discount, less the 8 Table of Contents Company’s liabilities), at the time of acquisition within 18 months after March 3, 3006, the consummation of the offering (or within 24 months after the consummation of the offering if certain extension criteria described in the registration statement have been satisfied). If the Company is unable to complete a Business Combination within the proscribed time frames and is forced to liquidate its assets, the per-share liquidation distribution will be less than $6.00 because of the expenses of the offering, the Company’s general and administrative expenses and the anticipated costs of seeking a Business Combination. Furthermore, there will be no distribution with respect to the Company’s outstanding warrants which will expire worthless if the Company liquidates before the completion of a Business Combination. • If third parties bring claims against the Company, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per-share liquidation price received by stockholders will be less than the approximately $5.75 per share held in trust. The Company’s placing of funds in the Trust Account may not protect those funds from third party claims against the Company. Although the Company will seek to have all vendors and other entities the Company engages, and all prospective target acquisitions the Company negotiates with, execute agreements with the Company waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the Trust Account for the benefit of the Company’s public stockholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements. Nor is there any guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with the Company and will not seek recourse against the Trust Account. Accordingly, the proceeds held in the Trust Account could be subject to claims which could take priority over those of the Company’s public stockholders. The Company cannot provide assurance that the per-share distribution from the Trust Account will not be less than approximately $5.75, plus interest, due to such claims. If the Company liquidates before the completion of a Business Combination and distributes the proceeds held in trust to its public stockholders, the Company’s corporate stockholder has agreed that it will be liable to ensure that the proceeds in the Trust Account are not reduced by the claims of target acquisitions or vendors or other entities that are owed money by the Company for services rendered or contracted for or products sold to the Company. However, the Company cannot provide assurance that they will be able to satisfy those obligations. • If the net proceeds that the Company raised in its initial public offering not being placed in trust is insufficient to allow the Company to operate for at least 24 months, the Company may not be able to complete a Business Combination. The Company currently believes that the funds available to the Company outside of the Trust Account will be sufficient to allow the Company to operate for at least 24 months, assuming that a Business Combination is not consummated during that time. However, the Company cannot provide assurance that its estimates will be accurate. The Company could use a portion of the funds not being placed in trust to pay due diligence costs in connection with a potential Business Combination or to pay fees to consultants to assist the Company with its search for a target acquisition. The Company could also use a portion of the funds not being placed in trust as a down payment or to fund a “no-shop” provision (a provision in letters of intent designed to keep target acquisitions from “shopping” around for transactions with others on terms more favorable to such target acquisitions) with respect to a particular proposed Business Combination, although the Company does not have any current intention to do so. If the Company entered into such a letter of intent where the Company paid for the right to receive exclusivity from a target acquisition and was subsequently required to forfeit such funds (whether as a result of the Company’s breach or otherwise), the Company might not have sufficient funds to continue searching for, or conduct due diligence with respect to any other potential target acquisitions. • Since the Company has not yet selected any target acquisition with which to complete a Business Combination, the Company is unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of the business’ operations. Because the Company has not yet identified a prospective target acquisition, investors in the offering currently have no basis to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the target acquisition. Although the Company’s management will evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target acquisition, the Company cannot provide assurance that it will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. The Company also cannot provide assurance that an investment in the Company’s Units will ultimately prove to be more favorable to investors than a direct investment, if such opportunity were available, in a target acquisition. Except for the limitation that a target acquisition have a fair market value of at least 80% of the Company’s net assets (excluding the amount held in the Trust Account representing a portion of the underwriters’ discount, less the Company’s liabilities) at the time of the acquisition, the Company will have virtually unrestricted flexibility in identifying and selecting a prospective acquisition candidate. 9 Table of Contents • The Company anticipates entering into the definitive documentation with respect to the Proposed Credit Facility pursuant to which the Company may incur indebtedness of up to $150,000,000. If the Company was to incur debt pursuant to the Proposed Credit Facility, or otherwise, it could result in: • default and foreclosure on the Company’s assets if the Company’s operating revenues after a Business Combination are insufficient to repay the Company’s debt obligations; • acceleration of the Company’s obligations to repay the indebtedness even if the Company makes all principal and interest payments when due if certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves are breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; • the Company’s immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; and • the Company’s inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt security contains covenants restricting the Company’s ability to obtain such financing while the debt security is outstanding. • If the Proposed Credit Facility is not established, or if established, the target acquisition fails to meet the criteria of the Proposed Credit Facility, or the Proposed Credit Facility does not provide the Company with sufficient additional capital, and the Company is required to obtain additional financing to complete a Business Combination or to fund the Company’s operations and growth upon consummation of a Business Combination, but is unable to do so, the Company could be compelled to restructure or abandon a particular Business Combination. Although the Company believes that the net proceeds of its initial public offering will be sufficient to allow the Company to consummate a Business Combination, because the Company has not yet identified any prospective target acquisition to acquire, the Company cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the net proceeds of its initial public offering prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the Business Combination, the depletion of the available net proceeds in the course of searching for a suitable target acquisition that the Company can afford to acquire, or the obligation to convert into cash a significant number of shares from dissenting stockholders, and the Proposed Credit Facility has not been established, or is either insufficient in terms of additional capital or unavailable to the Company because the proposed target acquisition does not satisfy the criteria of the Proposed Credit Facility, the Company will be required to seek additional financing. The Proposed Credit Facility, which the Company has not yet entered into, is still subject to further negotiation and, there are no assurances that the Company will be able to enter into the Proposed Credit Facility on terms and conditions that are ultimately acceptable to the Company, or at all. The Company also cannot provide assurance that, in the event that the Company does not enter into the Proposed Credit Facility, any other additional financing will be available to the Company on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular Business Combination, the Company would be compelled to either restructure the transaction or abandon that particular Business Combination and seek an alternative target acquisition candidate. In addition, if the Company consummates a Business Combination, the Company may require additional financing to fund continuing operations and/or growth. The failure to secure additional financing if required could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to continue to develop and grow, even if the Company consummates a Business Combination. None of the Company’s officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to the Company in connection with or after a Business Combination. • The Company’s ability to successfully effect a Business Combination and to be successful thereafter will be totally dependent upon the efforts of the Company’s key personnel certain of who will not be employees of the Company’s and others who may not continue with the Company following a Business Combination. The Company’s ability to successfully effect a Business Combination is dependent upon the efforts of its key personnel. The Company’s key personnel, other than its executive officers, will be various employees of the Company’s corporate stockholder who the Company anticipates it will have access to on an as needed basis, although there are no assurances that any such personnel will be able to devote either sufficient time, effort or attention to the Company when the Company needs it. None of the Company’s key personnel, including Mark Rose, the Company’s chief executive officer and secretary, Shelby Sherard, the Company’s chief financial officer, and Mark Chrisman, a member of the Company’s Investment Committee, have entered into employment or consultant agreements with the Company. Further, although the Company presently anticipates that Mr. Rose, Ms. Sherard and Mr. Chrisman will remain associated in senior management, advisory or other positions with the Company following a Business 10 Table of Contents Combination, some or all of the management associated with a target acquisition may also remain in place. As such, other than Mr. Rose, Ms. Sherard and Mr. Chrisman, certain of the Company’s key personnel may not continue to provide services to the Company, including those individuals who are currently employees of the Company’s corporate parent, after the consummation of a Business Combination if the Company is unable to negotiate employment or consulting agreements with them in connection with or subsequent to the Business Combination, the terms of which would be determined at such time between the respective parties. Such negotiations would take place simultaneously with the negotiation of the Business Combination and could provide for such individuals to receive compensation in the form of cash payments and/or the Company’s securities for services they would render to the Company after the consummation of the Business Combination. While the personal and financial interests of such individuals may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target acquisition, the ability of such individuals to remain with the Company after the consummation of a Business Combination will not be the determining factor in the Company’s decision as to whether or not the Company will proceed with any potential Business Combination. While the Company intends to closely scrutinize any individuals the Company engages after a Business Combination, the Company cannot provide assurance that its assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company which could cause the Company to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such requirements. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various operational issues which may adversely affect the Company’s operations. • The Company has entered into a long term brokerage services agreement, a long term facilities management agreement and a long term project management agreement with Grubb & Ellis, the Company’s corporate stockholder, and due to the fact that all of the Company’s current officers are employed by the Company’s corporate stockholder and certain of the Company’s directors also serve on the board of directors of the Company’s corporate stockholder, a conflict of interest may arise in determining whether a particular target acquisition is appropriate for a Business Combination. The Company has entered into a long term brokerage services agreement, a long term facilities management agreement and a long term project management agreement with its corporate stockholder, Grubb & Ellis. Pursuant to these agreements, the Company’s corporate stockholder will serve as the Company’s exclusive agent with respect to commercial real estate brokerage and facilities management, and will perform project management services at the Company’s request. As a result, the Company’s corporate stockholder will stand to earn substantial fees and revenues in accordance with the terms and conditions of these agreements. The discretion of the Company’s officers, all of whom are also officers of the Company’s corporate stockholder, and the discretion of certain of the Company’s directors who are also directors of the Company’s corporate stockholder, in identifying and selecting a suitable target acquisition may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular Business Combination are appropriate and in the Company’s stockholders’ best interest. In addition, the Company’s corporate stockholder, as a commercial real estate broker, has relationships with a significant number of clients pursuant to which they would be expected to provide certain business opportunities that could be appropriate for presentation to the Company. The Company does not have preferential rights to be presented with any such opportunities. Accordingly, although the Company’s corporate stockholder is the Company’s exclusive agent with respect to commercial real estate brokerage and facilities management, it provides such services to the Company on a non-exclusive basis. • The Company’s officers, directors and advisors will allocate some portion of their time to other businesses thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to the Company’s affairs. This conflict of interest could have a negative impact on the Company’s ability to consummate a Business Combination. The Company’s officers, directors and advisors are not required to commit their full time to the Company’s affairs, which could create a conflict of interest when allocating their time between the Company’s operations and their other commitments. The Company does not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a Business Combination. All of the Company’s executive officers and advisors are currently employed by the Company’s corporate stockholder and are not obligated to devote any specific number of hours to the Company’s affairs. If the Company’s corporate stockholder requires them to devote more substantial amounts of time to its business and affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to the Company’s affairs and could have a negative impact on the Company’s ability to consummate a Business Combination. The Company cannot provide assurance that these conflicts will be resolved in the Company’s favor. 11 Table of Contents • The Company’s officers, directors, advisors and their affiliates currently are, and may in the future become affiliated with additional entities that are, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by the Company and accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. None of the Company’s officers, directors, advisors or their affiliates has been or currently is a principal of, or affiliated or associated with, a blank check company. However, all of the Company’s officers, directors and advisors currently are, and may in the future become affiliated with additional entities, including other “blank check” companies or real estate entities that are, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by the Company. In particular, Mr. Rose, Ms. Sherard and Mr. Chrisman are the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President of Capital Transactions, respectively, of Grubb & Ellis. In such capacities, Mr. Rose, Ms. Sherard and Mr. Chrisman have a fiduciary obligation to cause Grubb & Ellis to continue to present real estate leasing and acquisition opportunities that may be suitable for the Company to current and future clients of Grubb & Ellis. Additionally, the Company’s officers, directors and advisors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to the Company and the other entities to which they owe fiduciary duties. Accordingly, Mr. Rose, Ms. Sherard and Mr. Chrisman may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. The Company cannot provide assurance that any of these conflicts will be resolved in the Company’s favor. • The Company’s corporate stockholder currently owns shares of the Company’s common stock which will not participate in liquidation distributions and, due to the fact that all of the Company’s current officers are employed by the Company’s corporate stockholder and certain of the Company’s directors also serve on the board of directors of the Company’s corporate stockholder, a conflict of interest may arise in determining whether a particular target acquisition is appropriate for a Business Combination. The Company’s corporate stockholder owns shares of the Company’s common stock that were issued prior to the offering, but has waived its right to receive distributions with respect to those shares upon the Company’s liquidation if the Company is unable to consummate a Business Combination. Additionally, the Company’s corporate stockholder has purchased approximately 4.6 million warrants for an aggregate purchase price excluding commissions of approximately $2.2 million in the open market. These shares of common stock and warrants owned by the Company’s corporate stockholder will be worthless if the Company does not consummate a Business Combination. All of the Company’s current officers are employed by the Company’s corporate stockholder and certain of the Company’s directors also serve on the board of directors of the Company’s corporate stockholder, and therefore, the personal and financial interests of the Company’s officers and certain of the Company’s directors may influence their motivation in timely identifying and selecting a target acquisition and completing a Business Combination. Consequently, the Company’s officers’ discretion, and the discretion of certain of the Company’s directors, in identifying and selecting a suitable target acquisition may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular Business Combination are appropriate and in the Company’s stockholders’ best interest and as a result of such conflicts management may choose a target acquisition that is not in the best interests of the Company’s stockholders. • Other than with respect to the Business Combination, the Company’s officers, directors, security holders and affiliates may have a pecuniary interest in certain transactions in which the Company is involved, and may also compete with the Company. Other than with respect to the Business Combination, the Company has not adopted a policy that expressly prohibits its directors, officers, security holders or affiliates from having a direct or indirect pecuniary interest in any investment to be acquired or disposed of by the Company or in any transaction to which the Company is a party or have an interest. Nor does the Company have a policy that expressly prohibits any such persons from engaging for their own account in business activities of the types conducted by the Company. Accordingly, such parties may have an interest in certain transactions in which the Company is involved, and may also compete with the Company. • The ability of the Company’s stockholders to exercise their conversion rights may not allow the Company to effectuate the most desirable Business Combination or optimize the Company’s capital structure. When the Company seeks stockholder approval of any Business Combination, the Company will offer each public stockholder (but not the Company’s existing stockholders with respect to any shares they owned prior to the completion of the offering) the right to have their shares of common stock converted to cash if the stockholder votes against the Business Combination and the Business Combination is approved and completed. Such holder must both vote 12 Table of Contents against such Business Combination and then exercise their conversion rights to receive a pro rata share of the Trust Account. Accordingly, if the Company’s Business Combination requires the Company to use substantially all of its cash to pay the purchase price, because the Company will not know how many stockholders may exercise such conversion rights, the Company may either need to reserve part of the trust fund for possible payment upon such conversion, draw upon the Company’s Proposed Credit Facility if the target acquisition meets the criteria required by such credit facility, or the Company may need to arrange third party financing to help fund its Business Combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their conversion rights than the Company expects. Therefore, the Company may not be able to consummate a Business Combination that requires the Company to use all of the funds held in the Trust Account as part of the purchase price, or the Company may end up having to incur an amount of leverage either pursuant to the Proposed Credit Facility or otherwise that is not optimal for its Business Combination. This may limit the Company’s ability to effectuate the most attractive Business Combination available to the Company. • Because of the Company’s limited resources and the significant competition for Business Combination opportunities, the Company may not be able to consummate an attractive Business Combination. The Company expects to encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to the Company’s, including private investors (which may be individuals or investment partnerships), other blank check companies, public real estate investment trusts (REITs) and operating businesses competing for the type of commercial properties and assets that the Company intended to primarily focus on. Many of these individuals and entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting, directly or indirectly, acquisitions of commercial real estate properties and assets. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources, or more local industry knowledge, than the Company does and the Company’s financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While the Company believes that there are numerous target acquisitions that the Company could potentially acquire with the net proceeds of the offering, the Company’s ability to compete with respect to the acquisition of certain target acquisitions that are sizable will be limited by the Company’s available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target acquisitions. Furthermore, the obligation the Company has to seek stockholder approval of a Business Combination may delay the consummation of a transaction. Additionally, the Company’s outstanding warrants and the future dilution they potentially represent may not be viewed favorably by certain target acquisitions. Also, the Company’s obligation to convert into cash the shares of common stock in certain instances may reduce the resources available for a Business Combination. Any of these obligations may place the Company at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a Business Combination. • The real estate market in general is subject to a number of economic conditions that are not within the Company’s control. The commercial real estate market is subject to various risks and fluctuations and cycles in value and demand for real estate in local markets, many of which are beyond the Company’s control. Changes in one or more of these factors could either favorably or unfavorably impact the volume of transactions and prices or lease terms for real estate. Consequently, the Company’s revenue from the operating results of any target acquisition and any increase in its value, and the Company’s corresponding cash flow and financial condition could be materially and adversely impacted by changes in these factors. These factors include: • adverse changes in international, national, regional or local economic, demographic and market conditions; • adverse changes in financial conditions of buyers, sellers and tenants of properties; • competition from other real estate investors with significant capital; • reductions in the level of demand for commercial space, and changes in the relative popularity of properties; • fluctuations in interest rates, which could adversely effect the Company’s ability, or the ability of buyers and tenants of properties, to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all; • unanticipated increases in operating expenses, including, without limitation, insurance costs, labor costs, energy prices and costs of compliance with laws, regulations and governmental policies; 13 Table of Contents • changes in, and changes in enforcement of, laws, regulations and governmental policies, including, without limitation, health, safety, environmental, zoning and tax laws and governmental fiscal policies, and changes in the related costs of compliance with laws, regulations and governmental polices; and • civil unrest, acts of God, including earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters and acts of war or terrorism, including the consequences of terrorist acts such as those that occurred on September 11, 2001. • Increasing competition for the acquisition of real estate may impede the Company’s ability to make future acquisitions or may increase the cost of these acquisitions, which could adversely affect the Company’s operating results and financial condition. The commercial real estate industry is highly competitive on an international, regional and local level. The Company will face competition from REITs, institutional pension funds, and other public and private real estate companies and private real estate investors. Although many of the Company’s competitors are local or regional firms that are substantially smaller than the Company is as a whole, some of these firms are substantially larger than the Company is in the local or regional area in which the Company actually competes with these firms. These competitors may prevent the Company from acquiring desirable properties or increase the price the Company must pay for real estate. The Company’s competitors may have greater resources than the Company does, and may be willing to pay more or may have a more compatible operating philosophy with the Company’s acquisition targets. In particular, REITs may enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, a lower cost of capital and enhanced operating efficiencies. The Company’s competitors may also adopt transaction structures similar to the Company’s, which would decrease the Company’s competitive advantage in offering flexible transaction terms. In addition, the number of entities and the amount of funds competing for suitable investment properties may increase, resulting in increased demand and increased prices paid for such properties. If the Company pays higher prices for properties, the Company’s profitability may decrease and the Company may experience a lower return on its investments. Increased competition for properties may also preclude the Company from acquiring those properties that would generate the most attractive returns to the Company. • Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede the Company’s ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of the Company’s properties and harm the Company’s financial condition. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, the Company’s ability to promptly sell one or more properties or investments in its portfolio in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions may be limited. In particular, these risks could arise from weakness in or even the lack of an established market for a property, changes in the financial condition or prospects of prospective purchasers, changes in national or international economic conditions, and changes in laws, regulations or fiscal policies of jurisdictions in which the property is located. The Company may be unable to realize its investment objectives by sale, other disposition or refinance at attractive prices within any given period of time or may otherwise be unable to complete any exit strategy. • Rising operating expenses and decrease in rents at the Company’s properties could reduce the Company’s cash flow and funds available for future dividends. The Company’s properties will likely be subject to operating risks common to real estate in general, any or all of which may negatively affect the Company. If any property is not fully occupied or if rents are being paid in an amount that is insufficient to cover operating expenses, the Company could be required to expend funds for that property’s operating expenses. If the Company’s competitors offer space at rental rates below market rates, or below the rental rates the Company charges its tenants, the Company may lose existing or potential tenants and the Company may be pressured to reduce its rental rates below those the Company charges in order to retain tenants when the Company’s tenants’ leases expire. The Company’s properties could also be subject to increases in real estate and other tax rates, utility costs, operating expenses, insurance costs, repairs and maintenance and administrative expenses. Such rise in operating expenses and loss of rents could reduce the Company’s cash flows and funds available for future dividends. • The consideration paid for the Company’s target acquisition may exceed fair market value, which may harm the Company’s financial condition and operating results. The consideration that the Company pays will be based upon numerous factors and the target acquisition may be purchased in a negotiated transaction rather than through a competitive bidding process. The Company cannot provide assurance that the purchase price that the Company pays for a target acquisition or its appraised value will be a fair price, that the Company will be able to generate an acceptable return on such target acquisition, or that the location, lease terms or other relevant economic 14 Table of Contents and financial data of any properties that the Company acquires will meet acceptable risk profiles. The Company may also be unable to lease vacant space or renegotiate existing leases at market rates, which would adversely affect the Company’s returns on a target acquisition. As a result, the Company’s investments in its target acquisition may fail to perform in accordance with the Company’s expectations, which may substantially harm the Company’s operating results and financial condition. • Environmental regulation and issues, certain of which the Company may have no control, may adversely impact the Company’s business. Federal, state and local laws and regulations impose environmental controls, disclosure rules and zoning restrictions which directly impact the management, development, use, and/or sale of real estate. Such laws and regulations tend to discourage sales and leasing activities and mortgage lending with respect to some properties, and may therefore adversely affect the Company specifically, and the real estate industry in general. Failure by the Company to uncover and adequately protect against environmental issues in connection with a target acquisition may subject the Company to liability as buyer of such property or asset. Environmental laws and regulations impose liability on current or previous real property owners or operators for the cost of investigating, cleaning up or removing contamination caused by hazardous or toxic substances at the property. The Company may be held liable for such costs as a subsequent owner of such property. Liability can be imposed even if the original actions were legal and the Company had no knowledge of, or were not responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. Further, the Company may also be held responsible for the entire payment of the liability if the Company is subject to joint and several liability and the other responsible parties are unable to pay. The Company may also be liable under common law to third parties for damages and injuries resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the site, including the presence of asbestos containing materials. Insurance for such matters may not be available. Additionally, new or modified environmental regulations could develop in a manner which could adversely affect the Company. • The Company’s properties may contain or develop harmful mold, which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediating the problem. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Concern about indoor exposure to mold has been increasing as exposure to mold may cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. As a result, the presence of significant mold at any of the Company’s properties could require the Company to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold from the affected property. In addition, the presence of significant mold could expose the Company to liability from the Company’s tenants, employees of the Company’s tenants and others if property damage or health concerns arise. • The Company’s properties may contain asbestos which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediating asbestos. Certain laws and regulations govern the removal, encapsulation or disturbance of asbestos containing materials (or ACMs), when those materials are in poor condition or in the event of building renovation or demolition, impose certain worker protection and notification requirements and govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. These laws may also impose liability for a release of ACMs and may enable third parties to seek recovery against the Company for personal injury associated with ACMs. There may be ACMs at certain of the properties the Company acquires. • Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and fire, safety and other regulations may require the Company to make substantial unintended expenditures. Any properties the Company acquires will be required to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or the ADA. The ADA has separate compliance requirements for “public accommodations” and “commercial facilities,” but generally requires that buildings be made accessible to people with disabilities. Compliance with the ADA requirements could require removal of access barriers and non-compliance could result in imposition of fines by the U.S. government or an award of damages to private litigants, or both. While the tenants to whom the Company leases properties will be obligated by law to comply with the ADA provisions, and under the Company’s net leases will typically be obligated to cover costs associated with compliance, if required changes involve greater expenditures than anticipated, or if the changes must be made on a more accelerated basis than anticipated, the ability of such tenants to cover costs could be adversely affected and the Company could be required to expend its own funds to comply with the provisions of the ADA, which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition and the 15 Table of Contents Company’s ability to make distributions to shareholders. In addition, the Company will be required to operate its properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental agencies and bodies and become applicable to the Company’s properties. The Company may be required to make substantial capital expenditures to comply with those requirements. • Failure of the Company’s tenants to pay rent could seriously harm the Company’s operating results and financial condition. The Company may rely on rental payments from tenants of a target acquisition as a source of cash. At any time, any of the Company’s tenants may experience a downturn in its business that may weaken its financial condition. As a result, a tenant may delay lease commencement, fail to make rental payments when due, decline to extend a lease upon its expiration, become insolvent or declare bankruptcy. Any tenant bankruptcy, insolvency, or failure to make rental payments when due could result in the termination of the tenant’s lease and material losses to the Company. A default by a large tenant on one of these properties could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results and financial condition. In particular, if any of the Company’s significant tenants becomes insolvent, suffers a downturn in its business and decides not to renew its lease or vacates a property and prevents the Company from leasing that property by continuing to pay base rent for the balance of the term, it may seriously harm the Company’s business. Failure on the part of a tenant to comply with the terms of a lease may give the Company the right to terminate the lease, repossess the applicable property and enforce the payment obligations under the lease; however, the Company would be required to find another tenant. The Company cannot provide assurance that the Company would be able to find another tenant without incurring substantial costs, or at all, or that, if another tenant was found, the Company would be able to enter into a new lease on favorable terms. • The bankruptcy or insolvency of the Company’s tenants under their leases could seriously harm the Company’s operating results and financial condition. Any bankruptcy filings by or relating to one of the Company’s tenants could bar the Company from collecting pre-bankruptcy debts from that tenant or its property. A tenant bankruptcy could delay the Company’s efforts to collect past due balances under the relevant leases, and could ultimately preclude full collection of these sums. If a lease is assumed by the tenant in bankruptcy, all pre-bankruptcy balances due under the lease must be paid to the Company in full. However, if a lease is rejected by a tenant in bankruptcy, the Company would have only a general unsecured claim for damages. Any unsecured claim the Company holds against a bankrupt entity may be paid only to the extent that funds are available and only in the same percentage as is paid to all other holders of unsecured claims. The Company may recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims, which would harm the Company’s operating results and financial condition. • Increases in the Company’s property taxes could adversely affect the Company’s cash flow and financial condition. Each of the Company’s properties will be subject to real and personal property taxes. These taxes on the Company’s properties may increase as tax rates change and as the properties are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities. Many U.S. states and localities are considering increases in their income and/or property tax rates (or increases in the assessments of real estate) to cover revenue shortfalls. If property taxes increase, it may adversely affect the Company’s cash flow and financial condition. • Uninsured and underinsured losses may adversely affect operations. The Company, or in certain instances, tenants of the Company’s properties, are likely to carry commercial general liability, fire and extended coverage insurance with respect to the Company’s properties. The Company plans to obtain coverage that has policy specifications and insured limits that the Company believes are customarily carried for similar properties. However, certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes and floods, may be either uninsurable or not economically insurable. Should a property sustain damage, the Company may incur losses due to insurance deductibles, to co-payments on insured losses or to uninsured losses. In the event of a substantial property loss, the insurance coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement cost of the property. In the event of an uninsured loss, the Company could lose some or all of its capital investment, cash flow and anticipated profits related to one or more properties. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations, and other factors also might make it not feasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. Under such circumstances, the insurance proceeds the Company receives might not be adequate to restore the Company’s economic position with respect to such property. 16 Table of Contents In the event of an underinsured loss with respect to a property relating to a title defect, the insurance proceeds the Company receives might not be adequate to restore the Company’s economic position with respect to such property. In the event of a significant loss at one or more of the properties covered by the blanket policy, the remaining insurance under the Company’s policy, if any, could be insufficient to adequately insure the Company’s remaining properties. In this event, securing additional insurance, if possible, could be significantly more expensive than the Company’s current policy. • If the Company is unable to promptly relet or renew leases as they expire, the Company’s cash flow and ability to service its indebtedness, if any, may be adversely affected. The Company is subject to the risks that upon expiration of leases for space located in its buildings (a) such leases may not be renewed, (b) such space may not be relet or (c) the terms of renewal or reletting, taking into account the cost of required renovations, may be less favorable than the current lease terms. If the Company is unable to promptly relet, or renew the leases for, a substantial portion of the space located in the Company’s buildings, or if the rental rates upon such renewal or reletting are significantly lower than expected rental rates, or if the Company’s reserves for these purposes prove inadequate, the Company’s cash flow and ability to service the Company’s indebtedness, if any, may be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 