D. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all other information contained in this annual report, before making any investment decision. Any of these risks and uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, which could in turn affect the price of the Company’s shares and ADSs. Risks Relating to the Steel Industry A downturn in the global economy would cause a reduction in worldwide demand for steel, and a protracted global recession or a depression would have a material adverse effect on the steel industry and Ternium. Ternium’s activities and results are affected by international economic conditions, as well as by national and regional economic conditions in the markets where Ternium operates and/or sells its products. A downturn in the global economy would reduce demand for steel products. This would have a negative effect on Ternium’s business and results of operations. If global macroeconomic conditions deteriorate, the outlook for steel producers would be affected. In particular, a recession or depression in the developed economies, such as the one experienced by the United States and Europe in 2008 and 2009, or slower growth or recessionary conditions in emerging economies that are substantial consumers of steel (such as China and India, as well as emerging Asian markets, the Middle East, Latin America and the Commonwealth of Independent States regions) would exact a heavy toll on the steel industry. Financial weakness among substantial consumers of steel products, such as the automotive industry and the construction industry, or the bankruptcy of any large companies in such industries, would exacerbate a negative trend in market conditions. Although demand, production levels and prices in certain segments and markets have recovered and stabilized to a certain degree, the extent, timing and duration of the recovery and potential return to pre-crisis levels remains uncertain. It is difficult to predict the duration or severity of a new global economic downturn, or to what extent it will affect us. A continued or renewed recession, or the public perception that a recession is continuing, or an unsustainable recovery and persistently weak economic conditions in our key markets, could depress demand for our products and adversely affect our business and results of operations. A protracted fall in steel prices would have a material adverse effect on the results of Ternium, as could price volatility. Steel prices are volatile and are sensitive to trends in cyclical industries, such as the construction, automotive, appliance and machinery industries, which are significant markets for Ternium’s products. Steel prices in the international markets, which had been rising fast during the first half of 2008, fell sharply beginning in the second half of 2008 as a result of collapsing demand and the resulting excess capacity in the industry. The fall in prices during this period adversely affected the results of steel producers generally, including Ternium, as a result of lower revenues and writedowns of finished steel products and raw material inventories. For example, in the second half of 2008 Ternium recorded a valuation allowance on inventories in an amount of USD200 million and in the first half of 2009 it recorded an additional valuation allowance in the amount of USD127.6 million. Beginning in the second half of 2009, steel prices in the international markets rebounded mainly as a result of the increase in the demand for steel in China and other emerging markets, and the subsidence of the worldwide de-stocking process. Although the duration and extent of this price recovery depends highly on global economic recovery, historically the length and nature of business cycles affecting the steel industry has been unpredictable. A downturn in steel prices would materially and adversely affect Ternium’s revenues and profitability. In addition, the steel industry is highly competitive with respect to price, product quality, customer service and technological advances, and competition has frequently limited the ability of steel producers to raise the price of finished products to recover higher raw material and energy costs. Moreover, in some cases, the governments of some countries are reluctant to accept price increases of products which are used as raw materials for the manufacture of other goods, as such increases could ultimately affect competitiveness or increase inflation. In some other cases, governments restrict the ability of companies to pass on to the domestic markets any increases in international prices. Accordingly, increases in the purchase costs of raw materials, energy and other inputs might not be recoverable through increased product prices. 9 Table of Contents A sudden increase in exports from China could have a significant impact on international steel prices affecting Ternium’s profitability. As demand for steel has surged in China, steel production capacity in that market has also increased, and China is now the largest worldwide steel producing country, accounting for approximately half of the worldwide steel production. Due to the size of the Chinese steel market, a slowdown in steel consumption in that market could cause a sizable increase in the volume of steel offered in the international steel markets, exerting a downward pressure on sales and margins of steel companies operating in other markets and regions, including Ternium. Excess capacity, resulting in part from the recent financial crisis that reduced steel demand and from a strong increase in steel production capacity in recent years, may hamper the steel industry’s ability to sustain adequate profitability. In addition to economic conditions and prices, the steel industry is affected by other factors such as worldwide production capacity and fluctuations in steel imports/exports and tariffs. Historically, the steel industry has suffered, especially on downturn cycles, from substantial over-capacity. Currently, as a result of the economic crisis and the increase in steel production capacity in recent years, there are signs of excess capacity in all steel markets, which is impacting the profitability of the steel industry. Accordingly, it is possible that the industry’s excess capacity will result in an extended period of depressed margins and industry weakness. Sales may fall as a result of fluctuations in industry inventory levels. Inventory levels of steel products held by companies that purchase Ternium’s products can vary significantly from period to period. These fluctuations can temporarily affect the demand for Ternium’s products, as customers draw from existing inventory during periods of low investment in construction and the other industry sectors that purchase Ternium’s products and accumulate inventory during periods of high investment and, as a result, these companies may not purchase additional steel products or maintain their current purchasing volume. Accordingly, Ternium may not be able to increase or maintain its current levels of sales volumes or prices. Price fluctuations or shortages in the supply of raw materials, slabs and energy could adversely affect Ternium’s profitability. Like other manufacturers of steel-related products, Ternium’s operations require substantial amounts of raw materials, energy and other inputs from domestic and foreign suppliers. In particular, the Ternium companies consume large quantities of iron ore, scrap, ferroalloys, electricity, coal, natural gas, oxygen and other gases in operating their blast and electric arc furnaces. In addition, Ternium is a large consumer of slabs and hot and cold-rolled steel, which are used as inputs in the production process. Also, the availability and price of a significant portion of the raw materials, slabs, energy and other inputs Ternium requires are subject to market conditions and government regulation affecting supply and demand. For example, shortages of natural gas in Argentina and the consequent supply restrictions imposed by the government could lead to higher costs of production and eventually to production cutbacks at Ternium’s facilities in Argentina. See “—Risks Relating to the Countries in Which We Operate—Argentina—Restrictions on the supply of energy to Ternium’s operations in Argentina could curtail Ternium’s production and negatively impact Ternium’s results of operations.” In the past, Ternium has usually been able to procure sufficient supplies of raw materials, slabs, energy and other inputs to meet its production needs; however, it could be unable to procure adequate supplies in the future. Any protracted interruption, discontinuation or other disruption of the supply of principal inputs to the Ternium companies (including as a result of strikes, lockouts or other problems) would result in lost sales and would have a material adverse effect on Ternium’s business and results of operations. For example, during 2007 Companhia Vale do Rio Doce, or Vale, our main supplier of iron ore, was unable to provide us with the quantities of iron ore required for our Argentine operations; in addition, there was limited transportation capacity from Brazil to Argentina through the Paraguay and Parana rivers. For further information related to Raw Materials, Energy and Other inputs requirements, Item 4. “Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Raw Materials, Energy and Other inputs.” The Ternium companies depend on a limited number of key suppliers. The Ternium companies depend on certain key suppliers for their requirements of some of their principal inputs, including Vale for iron ore and ArcelorMittal for slabs; there is also a trend towards consolidation among suppliers of iron ore and other raw materials. The Ternium companies have entered into long-term contracts for the supply of some of their principal inputs (including iron ore) and it is expected that they will maintain and, depending on the circumstances, renew these contracts. However, if any of the key suppliers fails to deliver or there is a failure to renew these contracts, the Ternium companies could face limited access to some raw materials, energy or other inputs, or higher costs and delays resulting from the need to obtain their input requirements from other suppliers. As an example, in 2007 Vale was unable to provide Siderar with the quantities of iron ore that it required, forcing Siderar to import iron ore from Ternium Mexico. 10 Table of Contents Intense competition could cause Ternium to lose its share in certain markets and adversely affect its sales and revenues. The market for Ternium’s steel products is highly competitive, particularly with respect to price, quality and service. In both the global and regional markets, Ternium competes against other global and local producers of flat and long steel products, which in some cases have greater financial and operating resources. Competition from larger steel manufacturers could result in declining margins and reductions in sales volumes and revenues. Ternium’s larger competitors could use their resources against Ternium in a variety of ways, including by making additional acquisitions, implementing modernization programs, expanding their production capacity, investing more aggressively in product development, and displacing demand for Ternium’s products in certain markets. To the extent that these producers become more efficient, Ternium could confront stronger competition and could fail to preserve its current share of the relevant geographic or product markets. In addition, there has been a trend in recent years toward steel industry consolidation among Ternium’s competitors, and smaller competitors in the steel market today could become larger competitors in the future. For example, in June 2006, Mittal Steel and Arcelor merged to create the world’s largest steel company, ArcelorMittal; in April 2007, Tata Steel completed the acquisition of Corus and in 2008 Severstal acquired Sparrow Points steel mill, WCI Steel and Esmark. Regional players in Ternium’s markets have also experienced consolidation through acquisitions; for example, Siderperu was acquired by Gerdau in 2006, Sicartsa of Mexico was acquired by ArcelorMittal in December 2006 and Aceria Paz del Rio of Colombia was acquired by Votorantim in March 2007. For further information please see Item 4. “Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Competition.” Moreover, competition from alternative materials (including aluminum, wood, concrete, plastic and ceramics) could adversely affect the demand for, and consequently the market prices of, certain steel products and, accordingly, could affect Ternium’s sales volumes and revenues. Competition in the global and regional markets could also be affected by antidumping and countervailing duties imposed on some producers in major steel markets and by the removal of barriers to imported products in those countries where the Ternium companies direct their sales. For further information please refer to Item 4. “Information on the Company—Regulations—Trade regulations.” Risks Relating to our Business If Ternium does not successfully implement its business strategy, its opportunities for growth and its competitive position could be adversely affected. Ternium plans to continue implementing its business strategy of further integrating the operating and marketing activities of the Ternium companies, developing value-added products, providing services to a wider range of customers in the local and export markets, gaining further access to iron ore and other inputs, increasing its steel production and continuing to pursue strategic acquisition opportunities. Any of these components or Ternium’s overall business strategy could be delayed or abandoned or could cost more than anticipated, any of which could impact its competitive position and reduce its revenue and profitability. For example, Ternium could fail to develop its projects to increase steel production capacity and lose market share in its regional markets. Even if Ternium successfully implements its business strategy, it may not yield the desired goals. Recent and future acquisitions, green-field projects, significant investments and strategic alliances could disrupt Ternium’s operations and adversely affect its profits. Ternium may not realize the benefits it expects from these business decisions. A key element of Ternium’s business strategy is to identify and pursue growth-enhancing strategic opportunities. As part of this growth strategy, Ternium has acquired interests in various companies, including Hylsamex, one of the main steel producers in Mexico; and Grupo Imsa, a leading steel processor with operations in Mexico, the United States and Guatemala. Additionally, Ternium has recently entered into a definitive agreement to acquire a 54% ownership interest in Colombia-based Ferrasa S.A.S. (“Ferrasa”) and Ferrasa Panamá and signed a non-binding memorandum of understanding with Nippon Steel Corporation to form a joint venture in Mexico for the manufacturing and sale of hot-dip galvanized and galvannealed steel sheets to serve the Mexican automobile market, see Item 5. “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—G. Recent Developments.” 11 Table of Contents We regularly consider capital investments, strategic acquisitions, greenfield projects and alliances and we intend to actively pursue that growth strategy. However, any growth project will depend upon market and financing conditions. We must necessarily base any assessment of potential capital investments, acquisitions, green-field projects and alliances on assumptions with respect to operations, profitability and other matters that may subsequently prove to be incorrect. Our recent and future acquisitions, investments and alliances may not perform in accordance with our expectations and could adversely affect our operations and profitability. Furthermore, we may fail to find suitable acquisition targets or fail to consummate our acquisitions under favorable conditions, or could be unable to successfully integrate any acquired businesses into our operations. Moreover, we may also acquire, as part of future acquisitions, assets unrelated to our business, and we may not be able to integrate them or sell them under favorable terms and conditions. These risks, and the fact that integration of any acquired businesses will require a significant amount of the time and resources of Ternium’s management and employees, could disrupt Ternium’s ongoing business and could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Ternium may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if it must reassess its goodwill or other amortizable intangible assets. In accordance with IFRS, management must test all of Ternium’s goodwill, intangible assets with an indefinite useful life and intangible assets not yet available for use annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indicators of impairment, and recognize a non-cash charge in an amount equal to any impairment. We recorded goodwill in connection with the acquisition of our Mexican subsidiaries, the balance of which, as of December 31, 2009, amounted to USD708.6 million. If Ternium’s management were to determine in the future that the goodwill from the acquisition of our Mexican subsidiaries was impaired, Ternium would be required to recognize a non-cash charge to write down the value of this goodwill, which would adversely affect Ternium’s results of operations. Labor disputes at Ternium’s operating subsidiaries could result in work stoppages and disruptions to Ternium’s operations. A substantial majority of Ternium’s employees at its manufacturing subsidiaries are represented by labor unions and are covered by collective bargaining or similar agreements, which are subject to periodic renegotiation. Strikes or work stoppages could occur prior to or during the negotiations leading to new collective bargaining agreements, during wage and benefits negotiations or, occasionally, during other periods for other reasons. Ternium could also suffer plant stoppages or strikes if it were to implement cost reduction plans. In Argentina, in early 2009, following a decrease in the level of activity since the last quarter of 2008 due to the global economic downturn, Siderar downsized contractor and subcontractor activities and temporary personnel, triggering adverse reactions from the construction workers’ union and the steelworkers’ union. Later in 2009, during the negotiations between Siderar and the steelworkers’ union regarding the annual bonuses related to results, the unions called for work stoppages and other measures. For more information on the collective bargaining agreement applicable to most of Siderar’s employees in Argentina, see Item 6. “Directors, Senior Management and Employees—D. Employees—Argentina.” In Mexico, the various measures that Ternium’s Mexican subsidiaries have taken in order to become more competitive during 2009 have not resulted in significant labor unrest. Notwithstanding this, we cannot assure that this situation will remain stable. Any future stoppage, strike, disruption of operations or new collective bargaining agreements could result in lost sales and could increase Ternium’s costs, thereby affecting our results of operations. For more information on labor relations, see Item 6. “Directors, Senior Management and Employees—D. Employees.” 12 Table of Contents Ternium’s related party transactions with companies controlled by San Faustín may not always be on terms as favorable as those that could be obtained from unaffiliated third parties. Some of Ternium’s sales and purchases are made to and from other companies controlled by San Faustín. These sales and purchases are primarily made in the ordinary course of business, and we believe that they are made on terms no less favorable than those we could obtain from unaffiliated third parties. Ternium will continue to engage in related party transactions in the future, and these transactions may not be on terms as favorable as those that could be obtained from unaffiliated third parties. For information concerning the principal transactions between Ternium and related parties see Item 7. “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions.” Following the completion of the Sidor nationalization process, Ternium is exposed to credit concentration risk with Venezuela. On May 7, 2009, Ternium completed the transfer of its entire 59.7% interest in Sidor to Corporación Venezolana de Guayana, or CVG, a Venezuelan state-owned entity. Ternium agreed to receive an aggregate amount of USD1.97 billion as compensation for its Sidor shares. Of that amount, CVG paid USD400 million in cash on that date. The balance was divided in two tranches: the first tranche, of USD945 million, is being paid in six quarterly installments of approximately USD158 million each beginning in August 2009 until November 2010, while the second tranche, of USD626 million, will be due in November 2010, subject to quarterly mandatory prepayment events based on the increase of the WTI crude oil price over its May 6, 2009 level. As of the date of this annual report, CVG has paid USD1.51 billion and the outstanding principal is USD458 million. These receivables with CVG are unsecured. Accordingly, we have significant credit concentration risk with CVG and Venezuela. Under the agreements with CVG and Venezuela, in the event of non-compliance by CVG with its payment obligations, Ternium has reserved the rights and remedies that it had prior to the transfer of the Sidor shares in relation to any claim against Venezuela, subject to certain limitations, including that Ternium may not claim an amount exceeding the outstanding balance due from CVG. For more information on the Sidor nationalization process, see note 29 to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report and Item 4. “Information on the Company—A. History and Development of the Company—Sidor Nationalization Process.” A significant rise in interest rates or any limitation in the Ternium companies’ ability to hedge against interest rate fluctuations and other financial risks could adversely affect Ternium’s business and results. Changes in interest rates affect the amount of Ternium’s interest payments as well as the fair value of its fixed rate debt. Most of Ternium’s long-term borrowings are at variable rates, and accordingly, Ternium is exposed to the risk of increased interest expense in the event of a significant rise in interest rates. As of December 31, 2009, Ternium’s total indebtedness was USD2.3 billion and, as stated above, most of it has variable rates. In addition, a substantial rise in interest rates in developed economies such as the United States could adversely affect the economies in the countries where Ternium conducts its operations and markets its products. In the ordinary course of business, the Ternium companies from time to time enter into interest rate derivatives agreements to manage their exposure to interest rate changes. Future regulatory or financial restrictions in the countries where Ternium operates may affect its ability to mitigate its exposure to interest rate fluctuations and other financial risks, and thus cause an adverse impact on Ternium’s results of operations and financial condition. Changes in exchange rates or any limitation in the Ternium companies’ ability to hedge against exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect Ternium’s business and results. The operations of the Ternium companies expose them to the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Most of Ternium’s sales are carried out in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As a result of this foreign currency exposure, exchange rate fluctuations impact the Ternium companies’ results and net worth as reported in their income statements and statements of financial position in the form of both translation risk and transaction risk. In the ordinary course of business, the Ternium companies enter from time to time into exchange rate derivatives agreements to manage their exposure to exchange rate changes. Future regulatory or financial restrictions in the countries where Ternium operates may affect its ability to mitigate its exposure to exchange rate fluctuations, and thus cause an adverse impact on Ternium’s results of operations and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents Risks Relating to our Mining Activities Iron ore is one of the principal raw materials used by Ternium’s operating subsidiaries. Ternium has equity interests in two iron ore mining companies in Mexico: a 100% interest in Las Encinas and a 50% interest in Consorcio Minero Benito Juárez Peña Colorada, S.A. de C.V., which operates Peña Colorada, Mexico’s largest iron ore mine. In addition, Ternium may seek to expand its mining activities in the future. Our present and future mining activities are or would be subject to particular risks, as follows: Our mining activities depend on governmental concessions and on our ability to reach and maintain lease agreements (or other agreements for the use of land) with the owner of the real estate where the mines are located. Our mining activities are subject to specific regulations and depend on concessions and authorizations granted by governmental authorities. Amendments to applicable law and regulations may change the terms pursuant to which we are required to pursue our exploration, mining and ore processing activities. Such changes may result in new taxes or royalties or require modifications to the processes and technologies used in our mining activities, leading to unexpected capital expenditures and higher costs. If the relevant government authority determines that we are not in compliance with our obligations as concessionaires, it may terminate our concession. Furthermore, in order to explore or exploit mines it is necessary to obtain the right to occupy and use the land where the mines are situated. Even though government regulations frequently establish provisions intended to facilitate the establishment of such rights, in some cases it may be difficult to reach and maintain agreements with the owners or such agreements may be excessively onerous. If we are unable to establish use and occupancy rights on acceptable terms, our mining activities may be compromised. Our exploration activities are subject to uncertainties as to the result of such exploration; even if the exploration activities lead to the discovery of ore deposits, the effective exploitation of such deposits remains subject to several risks. Exploration activities are highly speculative, involve substantial risks and may be unproductive. We may incur substantial costs for exploration which do not yield the expected results. The failure to find sufficient and adequate reserves could adversely affect our business. In addition, even if ore deposits are discovered, our ability to pursue exploitation activities may be delayed for a long time during which market conditions may vary. Significant resources and time needed to be invested in order to establish ore resources through exploration, define the appropriate processes that shall be undertaken, obtain environmental licenses, concessions and other permits, build the necessary facilities and infrastructure for greenfield projects and obtain the ore or extract the metals from the ore. If a project does not turn out to be economically feasible by the time we are able to exploit it, we may incur substantial write-offs. Our expected costs for exploration or exploitation activities may vary significantly and affect our expected results. We may be subject to increased costs or delays relating to the acquisition of adequate equipment for the exploration and exploitation of ore deposits. We may also fail to obtain any necessary permits, or experience significant delays in connection with the issuance of such permits. Adverse mining conditions, whether permanent or temporary, may lead to a significant increase on our costs and/or affect our ability to produce the expected quantities of mineral. All of the above may adversely affect our ability to conduct our mining activities as planned and affect our expected results of operations. Difficulties in the relationships with local communities may adversely affect our mining activities. Communities living near areas where we operate may take actions to oppose and interfere with our mining activities. Although we make significant efforts to maintain good relationships with such communities, actions taken by them may hamper our ability to conduct our mining activities as planned, or significantly increase the cost of exploring and/or exploiting the mines and adversely affect our business and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Risks Relating to the Structure of the Company As a holding company, the Company’s ability to pay cash dividends depends on the results of operations and financial condition of its subsidiaries and could be restricted by legal, contractual or other limitations. The Company conducts all its operations through subsidiaries. Dividends or other intercompany transfers of funds from those subsidiaries are the Company’s primary source of funds to pay its expenses, debt service and dividends and to repurchase shares or ADSs. The Company does not and will not conduct operations at the holding company level. The ability of the Company’s subsidiaries to pay dividends and make other payments to the Company will depend on their results of operations and financial condition and could be restricted by, among other things, applicable corporate and other laws and regulations, including those imposing foreign exchange controls, and agreements and commitments of such subsidiaries. If earnings and cash flows of the Company’s operating subsidiaries are substantially reduced, the Company may not be in a position to meet its operational needs or to pay dividends. In addition, the Company’s ability to pay dividends is subject to legal and other requirements and restrictions in effect at the holding company level. For example, the Company may only pay dividends out of net profits, retained earnings and distributable reserves and premiums, each as defined and calculated in accordance with Luxembourg laws and regulations. The Company’s controlling shareholder may be able to take actions that do not reflect the will or best interests of other shareholders. As of March 31, 2010, San Faustín beneficially owned 60.64% and Tenaris, which is also controlled by San Faustín, held 11.46% of our outstanding voting stock. Rocca & Partners controls a significant portion of the voting power of San Faustín and has the ability to influence matters affecting, or submitted to a vote of, the shareholders of San Faustín. As a result, Rocca & Partners is indirectly able to elect a substantial majority of the members of the Company’s board of directors and has the power to determine the outcome of most actions requiring shareholder approval, including, subject to the requirements of Luxembourg law, the payment of dividends. The decisions of the controlling shareholder may not reflect the will or best interests of other shareholders. For example, the Company’s articles of association permit the board of directors to waive, limit or suppress preemptive rights in certain cases. Accordingly, our controlling shareholder may cause our board of directors to approve an issuance of shares for consideration without preemptive rights, thereby diluting the minority interest in the Company. See “—Risk Factors—Risks Relating to our ADSs—Holders of our shares and ADSs in the United States may not be able to exercise preemptive rights in certain cases.” Remaining minority interests in Siderar could delay or impede our ability to complete our strategy. We do not own one hundred percent of the interests in certain of our subsidiaries. As of March 31, 2010, approximately 25.97% of Siderar was held by the Administración Nacional de la Seguridad Social (“ANSeS”), Argentina’s governmental social security agency, approximately 9.71% was publicly held, and approximately 3.38% was held by certain Siderar employees. ANSeS became a shareholder of Siderar in the last quarter of 2008 as a result of the nationalization of Argentina’s private pension system, which caused assets under administration of Argentina’s private pension funds—including significant interests in publicly traded companies, such as Siderar, held by such funds—to be transferred to ANSeS. The existence of a minority interest in Siderar could prevent Ternium from taking actions that, while beneficial to the Company, might not be beneficial to Siderar considered separately. As a result, we could be delayed or impeded in the full implementation of our strategy or the maximization of Ternium’s competitive strengths. The Company’s tax-exempt status will terminate on December 31, 2010. If we are unable to mitigate the consequences of the termination of the preferential tax regime applicable to the Company, in the future we may be subject to a higher tax burden and holders of our shares or ADSs may be subject to tax withholdings. The Company was established as a société anonyme holding under Luxembourg’s 1929 holding company regime and the “billionaire” provisions relating thereto. 1929 holding companies are exempt from Luxembourg corporate income tax over income derived from low tax jurisdictions and withholding tax over dividends distributions to holders of our shares and ADSs. Following a decision by the European Commission, the Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg terminated its 1929 holding company regime, effective January 1, 2007. However, under the implementing legislation, pre-existing publicly-listed companies—including the Company—are entitled to continue benefiting from their current tax regime until December 31, 2010. If we are unable to mitigate the consequences of the termination of the preferential tax regime, in the future we may be subject to a higher tax burden and holders of our shares or ADSs may be subject to tax withholdings. 15 Table of Contents Risks Relating to the Countries in Which We Operate Negative economic, political and regulatory developments in certain markets where Ternium has a significant portion of its operations and assets could hurt Ternium’s financial condition, shipments and prices and disrupt its manufacturing operations, thereby adversely affecting its results of operations and financial condition. The results of Ternium’s operations are subject to the risks of doing business in emerging markets, principally in Mexico and Argentina, and have been, and could in the future be, affected from time to time to varying degrees by political developments, events, laws and regulations, such as forced divestiture of assets; restrictions on production, imports and exports; interruptions to essential energy inputs; exchange and/or transfer restrictions; inflation; devaluation; war or other international conflicts; civil unrest and local security concerns that threaten the safe operation of company facilities; direct and indirect price controls; tax increases; changes in interpretation or application of tax laws and other retroactive tax claims or challenges; expropriation of property; changes in laws or regulations; cancellation of contractual rights; delays or denial of governmental approvals; and environmental regulations. Both the likelihood of such occurrences and their overall effect upon Ternium vary greatly from country to country and are not predictable. Realization of these risks could have an adverse impact on the results of operations and financial condition of Ternium’s subsidiaries located in the affected country. Mexico Ternium has significant manufacturing operations and assets located in Mexico and a majority of its sales are made in Mexico. Ternium’s main revenues derive from its Mexican operations, therefore, are related to market conditions in Mexico and to changes in its GDP and per capita disposable income. Ternium’s business could be materially and adversely affected by economic, political and regulatory developments in Mexico. Economic and social conditions and government policies in Mexico could negatively impact Ternium’s business and results of operations. In the past, Mexico has experienced several periods of slow or negative economic growth, high inflation, high interest rates, currency devaluation and other economic problems. Furthermore, the Mexican national economy tends to reflect changes in the economic environment in the United States. If problems such as the recent deterioration in Mexico’s economic conditions continue, or social instability, political unrest, reduction in government spending or other adverse social developments reemerge in the future, they could lead to continued volatility in the foreign exchange and financial markets, and, depending on their severity and duration, could adversely affect the business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity of Ternium. In addition, high incidences of violence and crime in Mexico related to drug trafficking could result in an economic slowdown, reducing domestic demand for our products and thereby having an adverse effect on our business. A continued deterioration of the security situation may result in significant obstacles or additional costs to the implementation of our growth plans in Mexico. Mexican peso volatility could have a negative impact on Ternium’s financial condition. Ternium could have, at any given time, a long or short net Mexican peso financial position. The fluctuation of the Mexican peso against the U.S. dollar (whether an appreciation or a devaluation) could result in financial losses. For example, most of Ternium Mexico’s trade receivables are Mexican peso-denominated; accordingly, in the event of a Mexican peso devaluation, the financial condition of our Mexican operations, when measured in U.S. dollars, could be adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents Changes in the Mexican tax system could have an adverse effect on Ternium’s Mexican operations. On September 14, 2007, the Mexican Congress passed a tax reform act, which created a new flat tax (the “impuesto empresarial a tasa única” or IETU) and, effective January 1, 2008, replaced the Mexican assets tax (the “impuesto al activo” or IMPAC). The act also established certain temporary and operational limits for the recoverability of assets tax credits. The IETU works as a corporate income tax supplement and is levied on income received. Ternium Mexico consolidates its various subsidiaries for purposes of determination and payment of Mexican corporate income tax. However, consolidation was not permitted for purposes of determination and payment of the new flat tax, nor was it possible to apply corporate income tax credits against IETU liabilities. Additionally, on November 5, 2009, the Mexican Congress passed a tax reform modifying the Income Tax Law. As a result, the statutory tax rate was raised from 28% to 30% for the years 2010, 2011 and 2012, and subsequently reduced to 29% for 2013 and to 28% for 2014. The tax consolidation regime was also modified. According to such changes and effective for the fiscal years ending after January 1, 2010, the tax deferred in the sixth preceding fiscal year under the tax consolidation regime has to be paid in five annual installments of 25%, 25%, 20%, 15%, and 15%, respectively, with the first installment being due in 2010. Present and future changes in the Mexican tax system may affect our Mexican subsidiaries’ tax burden and the application or recoverability of tax credits, thereby affecting our financial condition and results of operations. Argentina Ternium has significant manufacturing operations and assets located in Argentina and a significant portion of its sales are made in Argentina. Ternium’s main revenues from its Argentine operations, therefore, are related to market conditions in Argentina and to changes in Argentina’s gross domestic product, or GDP, and per capita disposable income. Accordingly, Ternium’s business could be materially and adversely affected by economic, political, fiscal and regulatory developments in Argentina. Economic and political instability, which resulted in a severe recession in 2002, may occur in the future, thereby adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results. Our business and results of operations in Argentina have closely followed macroeconomic conditions. Domestic sales of our Argentine subsidiary were severely affected by Argentina’s recession during 2001 and 2002. The domestic economic recovery over the 2003 — 2008 period, with sustained growth in construction, agriculture, industrial activity and particularly a significant improvement in the automobile industry, led to a recovery of steel shipments to the Argentine domestic market. During the last quarter of 2008, however, the downturn in the global economy reached the Argentine economy and had a significant adverse impact on our shipments to the Argentine domestic market until the third quarter of 2009. The Argentine economy is currently facing significant challenges. Inflation is high, as further discussed below, and the economy has been affected by supply constraints. Capital investment in general has lagged due to, among other factors, political uncertainties and government actions including price controls, export taxes, the nationalization of Argentina’s private pension system, and other measures limiting the conduct of business in the private sector or affecting investor confidence. Declining capital investment may affect growth and, accordingly, cause the demand for our local subsidiary’s products in the domestic market to drop. A lack of financing alternatives could significantly impair Argentina’s ability to sustain the economy’s activity level, foster economic growth and/or avert a new sovereign default. Economic conditions in Argentina have deteriorated rapidly in the past and may deteriorate rapidly in the future. The Argentine economy may not continue to grow and economic instability may return. Our business and results of operations in Argentina could be adversely affected by rapidly changing economic conditions in Argentina or by the Argentine government’s policy response to such conditions. Inflation may undermine economic growth in Argentina, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations and financial position. In the past, inflation has undermined the Argentine economy and the government’s ability to stimulate economic growth. During 2002, the Argentine Consumer Price Index (“CPI”) increased by 41%, and the Wholesale Price Index (“WPI”) increased by 118.2%. According to official inflation data published by the Instituto Nacional de Estadística y Censos (“INDEC”), Argentina’s national statistics institute, inflation slowed in 2003, with a 3.7% increase in the CPI and a 2% increase in the WPI. Beginning in 2004, both indexes began showing significant year-over-year increases in local prices, signaling a trend characteristic of an inflationary economy. The pace of inflation has increased rapidly and significantly over the last three years; however, Argentina’s inflation indicators have been subject to changes in calculation and may not be consistent with the past or may not adequately reflect increases in costs. Moreover, since such changes were implemented and as of the date of this annual report, the official inflation figures published by the INDEC have been consistently disputed by independent economists. 17 Table of Contents Sustained inflation in Argentina could negatively impact our results of operations and financial position as the Argentine peso-denominated costs (mainly labor-related costs) at our Argentine subsidiary increase, thereby affecting its cost-competitiveness and deteriorating its margins. In addition, a high inflation economy could negatively affect the economy’s activity and employment levels. Uncertainty about future inflation may contribute to slow the economic activity level by reducing the economy’s growth. Argentine inflation rate volatility makes it impossible to estimate with reasonable certainty the extent to which activity levels and results of operations of our Argentine subsidiary could be affected by inflation in the future. The Argentine Central Bank has imposed restrictions on the transfer of funds outside of Argentina and other exchange controls in the past and may do so in the future, which could prevent Ternium from paying dividends or other amounts from cash generated by its Argentine operations. In 2001 and 2002 and until February 7, 2003, the Argentine Central Bank restricted Argentine individuals and corporations from transferring U.S. dollars abroad without its prior approval. In 2003 and 2004, the government reduced some of these restrictions, including those requiring the Argentine Central Bank’s prior authorization for the transfer of funds abroad in order to pay principal and interest on debt obligations. Nevertheless, significant government controls and restrictions remain in place. Increasingly during 2008 and into 2009, the Argentine government imposed new restrictions on foreign exchange outflows, including through certain transactions on securities traded locally. The existing controls and restrictions, and any additional restrictions of this kind that may be imposed in the future, could impair Ternium’s ability to transfer funds generated by Ternium’s Argentine operations in U.S. dollars outside Argentina to fund the payment of dividends or other amounts and to undertake investments and other activities that require payments in U.S. dollars. On June 10, 2005, the Argentine government issued Decree No. 616/2005 that, together with related regulations, established restrictions on capital inflows into Argentina, requiring that, with certain exceptions, 30% of the amount of off-shore proceeds be deposited in a non-transferable, non-interest bearing account with an Argentine bank for 365 days. In addition, any principal payment obligation on external financial debt—excluding, subject to compliance with certain requirements, export financings and debt securities publicly traded in Argentina—of Argentine residents (including private Argentine entities) is required to have a maturity of at least 365 days from the date of receipt of the proceeds thereof. These restrictions could affect Ternium’s ability to finance its investments and operations in Argentina. In addition, our Argentine subsidiary is currently required to repatriate U.S. dollars collected in connection with exports from Argentina (including U.S. dollars obtained through advance payment and pre-financing facilities) into Argentina and convert them into Argentine pesos at the relevant exchange rate applicable on the date of repatriation. In October 2008, the time periods for the repatriation of export revenues credited in foreign currency overseas were, in practice, substantially shortened. The above restrictions and requirements, and any additional restrictions or requirements that may be imposed in the future, expose Ternium to the risk of losses arising from fluctuations in the exchange rate of the Argentine peso and could prevent Ternium from paying dividends or other amounts from cash generated by its Argentine operations. For additional information on current Argentine exchange controls and restrictions, see Item 10. “Additional Information—D. Exchange Controls.” The Argentine government has increased taxes on Argentine companies and could further increase the fiscal burden in the future. Since 1992, the Argentine government has not permitted the application of an inflation adjustment on the value of fixed assets for tax purposes. Since the substantial devaluation of the Argentine peso in 2002, the amounts that the Argentine tax authorities permit Ternium to deduct as depreciation for its past investments in plant, property and equipment have been substantially reduced, resulting in a higher effective income tax charge. Additionally, in 2001, the Argentine government imposed a 0.6% tax on credits in checking accounts (34% of which is paid on account of income tax payments) and a 0.6% tax on debits in checking accounts, while in 2002 a 5% tax was imposed on the export of manufactured products. If the Argentine government continues to increase the tax burden on Ternium’s operations in Argentina, Ternium’s results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents Restrictions on the supply of energy to Ternium’s operations in Argentina could curtail Ternium’s production and negatively impact Ternium’s results of operations. There has been a lack of investment in natural gas and electricity supply and transport capacity in Argentina in recent years. Over the course of the last several years, demand for natural gas and electricity has increased substantially, driven by a recovery in economic conditions and low prices in comparison with alternative fuel sources. This in turn resulted in shortages of natural gas and electricity to residential and industrial users during periods of high demand. For example, in recent years our operations in Argentina experienced constraints in their natural gas supply requirements and interruptions in their electricity supply at peak hours on many occasions. If demand for natural gas and electricity increases and a matching increase in natural gas and electricity supply and transport capacity fails to materialize on a timely basis, Ternium’s production in Argentina (or that of its main customers and suppliers) could be curtailed, and Ternium’s sales and revenues could decline. Although Ternium could take measures, such as the purchase of alternative fuels such as fuel oil, to limit the effect of supply restrictions on its operations in Argentina, such efforts might not be sufficient to avoid any impact on Ternium’s production in Argentina and Ternium might not be able to similarly limit the effect of future supply restrictions. See “—Risks Relating to the Steel Industry—Price fluctuations or shortages in the supply of raw materials, slabs and energy could adversely affect Ternium’s profitability” above. Certain Regulatory Risks and Litigation Risks International trade actions or regulations and trade-related legal proceedings could adversely affect Ternium’s sales, revenues and overall business. International trade-related legal actions and restrictions pose a constant risk for Ternium’s international operations and sales throughout the world. Additionally, increased global trade liberalization, with many countries forming free trade blocs or otherwise reducing restrictions on imported goods, including steel products, and excess global steel capacity have increased competition in many markets in which Ternium sells its products. Such risks and increased competition are likely to continue into the foreseeable future. Also, we are a significant purchaser of slabs for our operations in Mexico, which we buy from various suppliers in Mexico and overseas. Imports of slabs into Mexico are, subject to certain conditions, imported under lower import duties or through a temporary import regime. Should imports of slabs into Mexico grow, we may not be able to make such imports under the lower duty regime, or the Mexican government may increase the applicable duties or impose restrictions in the quantities allowed to be imported. Increased trade liberalization has reduced certain of Ternium’s imported input costs and increased Ternium’s access to many foreign markets. However, greater trade liberalization in its domestic markets is increasing competition for Ternium in such markets. In recent times, as a consequence of the global downturn, the number of antidumping and countervailing actions limiting trade has increased substantially. Accordingly, producers from certain countries find themselves excluded from certain markets and in need to find alternatives for their products. Ternium’s domestic market share could be eroded in the face of foreign imports if tariffs and other barriers are reduced or eliminated in Ternium’s domestic markets. Ternium’s increased exports to foreign markets where import barriers have been reduced may not completely offset domestic market share losses resulting from increased foreign competition. Countries can impose restrictive import duties and other restrictions on imports under various national trade laws. The timing and nature of the imposition of trade-related restrictions potentially affecting Ternium’s exports are unpredictable. Trade restrictions on Ternium’s exports could adversely affect Ternium’s ability to sell products abroad and, as a result, Ternium’s profit margins, financial condition and overall business could suffer. One significant source of trade restrictions results from countries’ imposition of so-called “antidumping” and “countervailing” duties, as well as “safeguard measures”. These duties can severely limit or altogether impede an exporter’s ability to export to relevant markets. In several of Ternium’s export destinations, such as the United States or Europe, safeguard duties and other protective measures have been imposed against a broad array of steel imports in certain periods of excess global production capacity, as is currently the case. Furthermore, certain domestic producers have filed antidumping and/or countervailing duty actions against particular steel imports. Some of these actions have led to restrictions on Ternium’s exports of certain types of steel products to some steel markets. As domestic producers’ filing of such actions is largely unpredictable, additional antidumping, countervailing duty or other such import restrictions could be imposed in the future, limiting Ternium’s export sales to and potential growth in those markets. See Item 4. “Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulations—Trade regulations.” 19 Table of Contents The cost of complying with environmental regulations and potential environmental and product liabilities may increase our operating costs and negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We are subject to a wide range of local, provincial and national laws, regulations, permit requirements and decrees relating to the protection of human health and the environment, including laws and regulations relating to hazardous materials and radioactive materials and environmental protection governing air emissions, water discharges and waste management. Laws and regulations protecting the environment have become increasingly complex and more stringent and expensive to implement in recent years. International environmental requirements vary. Environmental laws and regulations may, in some cases, impose strict liability rendering a person liable for damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety without regard to negligence or fault. Some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. These laws and regulations may expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by others or for acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time they were performed. Compliance with applicable requirements and the adoption of new requirements could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated statement of financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The ultimate impact of complying with environmental laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable since regulations under some of these laws have not yet been promulgated or are undergoing revision. The expenditures necessary to remain in compliance with these laws and regulations, including site or other remediation costs, or costs incurred from potential environmental liabilities, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and profitability. While we incur and will continue to incur expenditures to comply with applicable laws and regulations, there always remains a risk that environmental incidents or accidents may occur that may negatively affect our reputation or our operations. Some of the activities for which Ternium supplies products, such as canning for consumption, construction and the automotive industry are subject to inherent risks that could result in death, personal injury, property damage or environmental pollution. Furthermore, Ternium’s products are also sold to, and used in, certain safety-critical appliances. Actual or claimed defects in our products may give rise to claims against us for losses suffered by our customers and expose us to claims for damages. The insurance we maintain may not be adequate or available to protect us in the event of a claim, its coverage may be limited, canceled or otherwise terminated, or the amount of our insurance may be less than the related impact on enterprise value after a loss. Risks Relating to our ADSs The market price for our ADSs could be highly volatile. Volatility in the price of our ADSs may be caused by factors outside of our control and may be unrelated or disproportionate to Ternium’s operating results. In particular, announcements of potentially adverse developments, such as proposed regulatory changes, new government investigations or the commencement or threat of litigation against Ternium, as well as announced changes in Ternium’s business plans or those of its competitors could adversely affect the trading price of our ADSs, regardless of the likely outcome of those developments or proceedings. Broad market and industry factors could adversely affect the market price of our ADSs, regardless of its actual operating performance. As an example of this volatility, the price of our ADSs reached USD45.99 on June 6, 2008, before falling to USD4.55 on November 20, 2008, and then recovering to a closing price of USD35.42 on December 31, 2009. Furthermore, the trading price of our ADSs could suffer as a result of developments in emerging markets. Although the Company is organized as a Luxembourg corporation, almost all of its assets and operations are located in Latin America. Financial and securities markets for companies with a substantial portion of their assets and operations in Latin America are, to varying degrees, influenced by political, economic and market conditions in emerging market countries. Although market conditions are different in each country, investor reaction to developments in one country can have significant effects on the securities of issuers with assets or operations in other emerging markets, including Mexico and Argentina. 20 Table of Contents In deciding whether to purchase, hold or sell our ADSs, you may not be able to access as much information about us as you would in the case of a U.S. company. There may be less publicly available information about us than is regularly published by or about U.S. issuers. Also, Luxembourg regulations governing the securities of Luxembourg companies may not be as extensive as those in effect in the United States, and Luxembourg law and regulations in respect of corporate governance matters might not be as protective of minority shareholders as state corporation laws in the United States. Furthermore, IFRS differ in certain material aspects from the accounting standards used in the United States. Holders of our ADSs may not be able to exercise, or may encounter difficulties in the exercise of, certain rights afforded to shareholders. Certain shareholders rights under Luxembourg law, including the right to vote, to receive dividends and distributions, to bring actions, to examine the books and records and to exercise appraisal rights may not be available to holders of ADSs, or may be subject to restrictions and special procedures for their exercise, as holders of ADSs only have those rights that are expressly granted to them in the deposit agreement. The Bank of New York Mellon, as depositary, through its custodian agent, is the registered shareholder of the deposited shares underlying the ADSs and therefore only the depositary can exercise the shareholders rights in connection with the deposited shares. For example, if we make a distribution in the form of securities, the depositary is allowed, at its discretion, to sell that right to acquire those securities on your behalf and to instead distribute the net proceeds to you. Also, under certain circumstances, such as our failure to provide the depositary with voting materials on a timely basis, you may not be able to vote by giving instructions to the depositary. In the circumstances specified in the deposit agreement, if the depositary does not receive voting instructions from the holder of ADSs or the instructions are not in proper form, then the depositary shall deem such holder to have instructed the depositary to give, and the depositary shall give, a proxy to a person designated by the Company with respect to that amount of shares underlying such ADSs to vote that amount of shares underlying such ADSs in favor of any proposals or recommendations of the Company (including any recommendation by the Company to vote that amount of shares underlying such ADSs on any issue in accordance with the majority shareholders’ vote on that issue) as determined by the appointed proxy. No instruction shall be deemed given and no proxy shall be given with respect to any matter as to which the Company informs the depositary that (x) it does not wish such proxy given, (y) substantial opposition exists, or (z) the matter materially and adversely affects the rights of the holders of ADSs. Holders of our shares and ADSs in the United States may not be able to exercise preemptive rights in certain cases. Pursuant to Luxembourg corporate law, existing shareholders of the Company are generally entitled to preemptive subscription rights in the event of capital increases and issues of shares against cash contributions. Under the Company’s articles of association, the board of directors had been authorized to waive, limit or suppress such preemptive subscription rights until October 26, 2010; such authorization was renewed in the Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 2, 2010 and is in force until the fifth anniversary of the date of publication in Luxembourg’s official gazette of the deed recording the minutes of the meeting. The Company, however, may issue shares without preemptive rights only if the newly issued shares are issued: • for, within, in conjunction with or related to, an initial public offering of the shares of the Company on one or more regulated markets (in one or more instances); • for consideration other than cash; • upon conversion of convertible bonds or other instruments convertible into shares of the Company; provided, however, that the preemptive subscription rights of the then existing shareholders shall apply in connection with any issuance of convertible bonds or other instruments convertible into shares of the Company for cash; or • subject to a certain maximum percentage, as compensation to directors, officers, agents or employees of the Company, its direct or indirect subsidiaries or its affiliates, including without limitation the direct issuance of shares or the issuance of shares upon exercise of options, rights convertible into shares or similar instruments convertible or exchangeable into shares issued or created to provide compensation or incentives to directors, officers, agents or employees of the Company, its direct or indirect subsidiaries or its affiliates. 21 Table of Contents For further details, see Item 10. “Additional Information—B. Memorandum and Articles of Association.” Furthermore, holders of our shares and ADSs in the United States may, in any event, not be able to exercise any preemptive rights, if granted, for shares unless those shares are registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) with respect to those rights or an exemption from registration is available. We intend to evaluate, at the time of any rights offering, the costs and potential liabilities associated with the exercise by holders of shares and ADSs of the preemptive rights for shares, and any other factors we consider appropriate at the time, and then to make a decision as to whether to register additional shares. We may decide not to register any additional shares, requiring a sale by the depositary of the holders’ rights and a distribution of the proceeds thereof. Should the depositary not be permitted or otherwise be unable to sell preemptive rights, the rights may be allowed to lapse with no consideration to be received by the holders of the ADSs. It may be difficult to obtain or enforce judgments against the Company in U.S. courts or courts outside of the United States. The Company is a corporation organized under the laws of Luxembourg, and most of its assets are located outside of the United States. Furthermore, most of the Company’s directors and officers named in this annual report reside outside the United States. As a result, investors may not be able to effect service of process within the United States upon the Company or its directors or officers or to enforce against the Company or them in U.S. courts judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities law. Likewise, it may be difficult for a U.S. investor to bring an original action in a Luxembourg court predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against the Company, its directors or its officers. There is also uncertainty with regard to the enforceability of original actions in courts outside the United States of civil liabilities predicated upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws. Furthermore, the enforceability in courts outside the United States of judgments entered by U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities law will be subject to compliance with procedural requirements under applicable local law, including the condition that the judgment does not violate the public policy of the applicable jurisdiction. 