D. Risk Factors We wish to caution the readers that the following important factors, and those important factors described in other reports submitted to, or filed with, the Securities and Exchange Commission, among other factors, could affect our actual results and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. In particular, as we are a non-U.S. company, there are risks associated with investing in American Depository Shares (“ADSs”) that are not typical with investments in shares of U.S. companies. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations would likely suffer. In such case, the trading price of our ADSs could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. 6 ACTIONS SEMICONDUCTOR CO., LTD. Risks Related to Our Company The recent worldwide economic downturn has adversely affected the demand for our products, which directly impacts our business and results of operations. The recent systemic economic and financial downturn that has been affecting global business, banking and financial sectors has also been affecting the consumer electronic market. Our customers have altered and may continue to alter their purchasing activities in response to lack of credit, economic uncertainty and concern about the stability of markets in general, and have reduced or delayed purchases of our products and services. There could also be a number of effects from such turmoil on our business, including continued decreases in orders from our customers; insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and/or customer insolvencies; and counterparty failures negatively impacting our treasury operations. Current uncertainty in global economic conditions also poses a risk to the overall economy that could impact our ability to manage commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers and creditors. Revenues for our System-on-a-Chip (“SoC”) products have decreased by US$53.8 million, or 31.6%, from US$170.1 million in 2006 to US$116.3 million in 2007, and decreased by US$ 21.4 million, or 18.4%, to US$94.9 million in 2008, and further decreased by US$ 51.0 million, or 53.7%, to US$43.9 million in 2009. Our customers are facing challenges in the current economic downturn. If they cannot perform their obligations to us, our financial results could suffer. If economic conditions continue to deteriorate, certain of our customers may face liquidity concerns and may delay or be unable to satisfy their payment obligations. We may face increased payment and performance risk in the current economic downturn from our customers. In order to promote sales, we may be required to provide extended payment terms, financing arrangements or other modified sale terms for some customers, which will increase our sales expenses and further increase our exposure to customer credit risk, all in an environment of downward pressure on average selling prices. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, more allowance for doubtful accounts may be required. Furthermore, if any of our customers become insolvent or commence bankruptcy or similar proceedings, our receivables from such customers may become uncollectible, which may lead to additional bad debt expense for us and may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. We derive almost all of our revenues from our SoCs for portable media players, and we cannot be sure that sales of these products will not decline further. We derive almost all of our revenues from sales of our SoCs for portable media players. In 2008, the average selling price of our SoCs declined by approximately 15.5% and our units shipped decreased by 3.4% compared to 2007. In 2009, the average selling price of our SoCs declined by approximately 33% and our units shipped also decreased by 31% compared to 2008. We cannot be sure that our SoCs will continue to be successful in the markets in which we compete, or that portable media players will continue to remain popular with retail customers. Our future success depends on our ability to develop successful new products in a timely and cost-effective manner; meanwhile, we attempt to exploit new application markets to bring us additional revenues. We are required to continually evaluate expenditures for planned product developments and choose among alternatives based upon our expectations of future market trends, which are difficult to predict. For example, if market demand shifts rapidly toward portable, multifunctional electronic products such as mobile phones with add-on portable media player functionality and away from stand-alone portable media players, the sales of our SoCs for portable media players may decline. The migration and adoption of 3G mobile phone networks may also cause the embedding of portable media player functionality into mobile phones to grow in popularity as 3G technology allows audio, image and video files to be readily downloaded to mobile phones. We may not be able to compete with SoC providers that target mobile phone manufacturers by combining mobile phone and portable media player functionality into one SoC. We may not be able to develop and introduce new or enhanced products in a timely and cost-effective manner, keep pace with market trends, or be sure that our products will generate significant revenues. The development of our SoCs and total solutions is highly complex, and successful product development and market acceptance of our products depend on a number of factors, including: • our accurate prediction of the changing requirements of our customers; • our timely completion and introduction of new designs; 7 ACTIONS SEMICONDUCTOR CO., LTD. • the availability of third-party manufacturing, assembly, and testing capacity; • the ability of our contract foundries to achieve high manufacturing yields for our products; • the quality, price, performance, power efficiency and size of our products relative to our competitors; • our management of effective sales channels; • our customer service capabilities and responsiveness; • the success of our relationships with existing and potential customers; and • changes in industry standards. The selling prices of our products tend to decline over time, and if we are unable to develop successful new products in a timely manner, our operating results and competitive position could be harmed. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, the selling prices of our products tend to decline significantly over the life of the product. If we are unable to offset reductions in the selling prices of our products by introducing new products at higher prices or by reducing our costs, our revenues, gross margins and operating results will be adversely affected. We must continuously develop new SoCs or other products and enhancements for existing SoCs to keep pace with evolving industry standards and rapidly changing customer requirements. We may not have the financial resources necessary to fund future innovation. Even if we have sufficient financial resources, if our future innovation produces technology that is behind that of our competitors, we may lose customers. Similarly, if our new products are ahead of the current technological standards in our industry, our customers may be unwilling to invest in developing consumer electronics products that can utilize our products, or purchase our SoCs, until the consumer electronics market is ready to accept them. Further, we may be required to develop products that utilize technologies with which our engineers are not familiar. Our efforts to develop in-house capability to work with these technologies or to acquire such expertise through acquisitions or investments in businesses may not be successful. If we are unable to successfully define, develop and introduce competitive new SoCs or other products, we may not be able to compete successfully. In addition, if we, or our customers, are unable to manage product transitions, our business and results of operations would be negatively affected. Our failure to manage adequately our growth and expansion could result in deterioration in our results of operations and financial condition. We had grown rapidly from establishing our operations in December 2001 until 2006, mainly flying along with MP3’s product innovation. This expansion presented, and our anticipated fluctuation in the future may continue to present, a significant challenge to our management and administrative systems and resources and, as a result, to our results of operations and financial condition. Our future success will depend on, among other things, our ability to: • effectively maintain and service our existing customer relationships while developing new value-added distributor, contract manufacturer and brand owner customers; • continue training, motivating and retaining our existing employees and attract and integrate new technical, engineering and sales and marketing employees; • identify and attract new management personnel to our company as we continue to expand; • protect our intellectual property effectively; • integrate new businesses, technologies, services and products that we acquire by way of acquisitions or investments into our operations; • effectively manage our capital expenditures and working capital requirements; 8 ACTIONS SEMICONDUCTOR CO., LTD. • maintain and further improve our operational, financial, accounting and other internal systems and controls; and • maintain adequate controls and procedures to ensure that our periodic public disclosure under applicable laws, including U.S. securities laws, is complete and accurate. Any failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and the market price of our ADSs. We are subject to reporting obligations under the United States securities laws. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company’s internal controls over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. Our management and independent registered public accounting firm have concluded that our internal controls as of December 31, 2009 are effective. However, we cannot assure you that in the future we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify material weaknesses during the Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act audit process or for other reasons. In addition, because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a result, if we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or should we be unable to prevent or detect material misstatements due to error or fraud on a timely basis, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business, results of operations and negatively impact the market price of our ADSs, and harm our reputation. Furthermore, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur considerable costs and to use significant management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Because of the lengthy product development periods for our products and the headcount driven nature of a significant portion of our expenses, we may incur substantial expenses before we earn associated revenues and may not ultimately achieve our forecasted sales for our products. It may take nine to 18 months for us to design, develop and commence production of our products, and commercial production of consumer end-products that use our SoCs may take an additional two to six months. Product development cycles for our products are lengthy for a number of reasons: • our customers usually complete an in-depth technical evaluation of our products before they place a purchase order; • the commercial adoption of our products by value-added distributors, contract manufacturers and brand owners is typically limited during the initial release of their new products while they evaluate product performance and consumer demand; • new product introductions often center around key trade shows and failure to deliver a product prior to such an event may seriously delay or cancel introduction of a product; and • the development and commercial introduction of products incorporating new technology frequently are delayed or canceled. Because most of our expenses are associated with our headcount or incurred in advance of anticipated sales, we may not be able to decrease our expenses in a timely manner to offset any shortfall in sales. We are currently expanding our staffing and increasing our expenditures to support future growth, which may increase our cost of revenues and operating expenses. If our growth does not materialize, our operating results would be adversely impacted. As a result of the time it takes to begin commercial production and sales of a new product, and the fact that a significant portion of our operating expenses are driven primarily by personnel compensation or incurred in advance of anticipated sales, we may incur substantial expenses in developing new products before we earn associated revenues. For example, we incurred significant development expenses in late 2004 and early 2005 in connection with our ATJ2097 series SoCs, while we were not able to introduce this product to the market until June 2005. Similarly, we incurred significant development expenses in 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008 in connection with the development of our Series 13 SoCs, and we were not able to rollout these products in mass volume smoothly due to the complexity of integrating firmware on the complicated MIPS structure until 2009. In addition, as the markets for the end products that incorporate our products are rapidly evolving and subject to changing consumer preferences, the products we design may not be in demand by our customers at the time we complete our product development process. As a result, the total sales volume of Series 13 SoCs in 2008 was only 2.4 million units and in 2009 increased to 4.6 million units. We incurred significant development expenses in 2008 and 2009 in connection with the development of our new Series 25 SoCs. Because the complexity of this chip’s software and hardware exceeded our expectations, compound with the increased competition and dramatic changes in end-customer buying patterns, we encountered significant difficulties promoting our new products. As a result, the total sales volume of Series 25 SoCs in 2009 was only 75,000 units. These factors have caused us to miss the sales targets we set for these products when we commenced development activities and we may not be able to decrease our operating expenses in a timely manner to offset additional short-falls in sales, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 9 ACTIONS SEMICONDUCTOR CO., LTD. We currently rely on two third-party contractors to manufacture almost all of our mass-produced SoC products; any event that prevents these foundries from producing our products, or our failure to successfully manage our relationship with these foundries, could damage our relationships with our customers, decrease our sales, and limit our growth. We do not own or operate a semiconductor fabrication facility. Instead we rely on third-parties to manufacture our semiconductors. Presently, He Jian Technology Company（He Jian）and United Microelectronics Corporation ( UMC ) manufacture almost all of our semiconductors. As a result, if He Jian and UMC were to experience any catastrophic or other event that caused it to be unable to conduct manufacturing operations, or otherwise choose to discontinue manufacturing our products, it could have a significant adverse impact on our ability to sell our products. While we have in the past utilized, and continue to maintain relationships with, other contract foundries to have access to alternative manufacturing capabilities, we cannot be sure that these other contract foundries would be willing or have the capacity to produce our products. Even if such other foundries were willing to produce semiconductors for us, they may be unable to provide us with the same committed capacity, or be able to manufacture our semiconductors with the same yield rate, as we currently have with He Jian and UMC. As a result, we depend significantly on maintaining a strong relationship with He Jian and UMC, and these two companies’ continued ability to manufacture our semiconductor products, to maintain our revenues and customer relationships. We provide He Jian and UMC with monthly rolling forecasts of our production requirements; however, the ability of them to provide silicon wafers to us is limited by their available capacity. Moreover, the price of our silicon wafers fluctuates based on changes in available industry capacity. We do not have a long term supply contract with these two companies or any other contract foundry. Therefore, they could choose to prioritize capacity for other customers, reduce or eliminate deliveries to us on short notice or increase the prices they charge us. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that these two companies or any other contract foundry will allocate sufficient capacity to satisfy our requirements. If we are unable to obtain foundry capacity as required, we may experience delays in our ability to deliver our products, which would harm our relationships with our existing customers and result in decreased sales. There are additional risks associated with our reliance on third-party contractors, including: • their inability to increase production and achieve acceptable yields on a timely basis; • their production shutdown due to earthquake, power shortage, fires or storms; • reduced control over delivery schedules and product quality; • increased exposure to potential misappropriation of our intellectual property; • limited warranties on wafers or products supplied to us; • shortages of materials that foundries use to manufacture our products; • labor shortages or labor strikes; and • actions taken by our third-party contractors that breach our agreements. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller process geometry technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. In 2009, we successfully completed the migration from 0.162 micron to 0.153 micron processing technology. We are currently further transitioning our SoCs for portable media players from 0.153 micron to 0.13 micron processing technology in order to make sure we continue to satisfy our customers’ demands and to maintain our competitiveness. This transition requires us to redesign some products and integrated circuit designs that we use in multiple products, and will require our contract foundries to modify the manufacturing processes they use to produce our products. In addition, we will incur significant engineering costs and the attention of our engineering personnel will be diverted from other product development efforts during this transition. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties in shifting to smaller process geometry technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in periods of reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller micron process geometry. In addition, we will depend on our contract foundries to transition to smaller process geometries successfully. Our contract foundries may not be able to effectively manage this transition. If our contract foundries or we experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, we could experience reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses, all of which could harm our relationships with our customers and our results of operations. As smaller process geometries become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third-party intellectual property, into our products. However, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, or at all. Further, we cannot be sure that integrating greater functionality into a SoC will result in a corresponding increase in selling price. Because our customers are able to change or cancel orders on relatively short notice, we could unexpectedly lose anticipated sales. The lengthy product development periods for our products make forecasting the volume and timing of orders difficult. In addition, the delays inherent in lengthy product development periods raise additional risks that customers may cancel or change their orders. Because industry practice allows contract manufacturers and brand owners to reschedule or cancel orders on relatively short notice, backlog and customer forecasts are not always good indicators of our future sales. If customers reduce or cancel their orders, it could result in the loss of anticipated sales without allowing us sufficient time to reduce our inventory and operating expenses. Further, because our sales are made by means of standard purchase orders rather than long term contracts, our customers may not continue to purchase our products at current levels, or at all. We depend on a few key customers for a substantial majority of our sales and the loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, any of them would likely significantly reduce our revenues. In 2007, 2008 and 2009, sales to our top five customers accounted for approximately 59%, 69% and 65% of our revenues, respectively. Our operating results in the foreseeable future will likely continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers, as well as the ability of these customers to sell products that use our SoCs and solution development kits. Our revenues would likely decline if one or more of these customers were to significantly reduce, delay or cancel their orders for any reason. In addition, any difficulty in collecting outstanding amounts due from our customers, particularly customers who place large orders, would harm our financial performance. Many of our key customers are value-added distributors, who integrate our products into a system platform and sell that system platform to contract manufacturers. We also sell some of our products directly to contract manufacturers. Growth in our business will depend on our ability to maintain and expand our relationships with both value-added distributor customers and contract manufacturer customers. However, some of our value-added distributor customers may also carry and sell product lines that are competitive with ours. As these customers are not required to maintain a specified minimum level of purchases from us, we cannot be sure that they will prioritize selling our products. As we continue to expand our sales capabilities, we will also need to manage the potential conflicts that may arise between us and our value-added distributor customers. Further, we rely on our customers to accurately and timely report to us their sales of our products and to provide certain engineering support services to the brand owners who market and distribute the end products to consumers. Our inability to obtain accurate and timely reports and to successfully manage these relationships would adversely affect our business and financial results. If our products are not manufactured with satisfactory yields or quality, our sales could decrease, and our relationships with our customers and our reputation may be harmed. Due to the complexity of SoCs design and manufacturing process, even minor deviations in the semiconductor manufacturing process can cause substantial decreases in yields, and in some cases, cause production to be suspended. We establish a minimum yield with our foundries at the time our products are qualified. If actual yield at the foundry is below the minimum, the foundry incurs the cost of the wafers, and if actual yield is above the minimum, we incur the cost. However, the fact that a contract foundry is achieving minimum yields on a product does not mean that the yield is sufficient to allow us to maintain or increase our profits on that product. Further, even though a contract foundry is responsible for yield losses we incur on a particular shipment of SoCs, these yield losses could cause us to delay shipments to our customers and damage our relationship with them. The manufacturing yields for our new products tend to be lower initially and increase as the contract foundry achieves full production. For example, it took us nine months to increase the yield of our Series 8 SoCs from 67% to 90%. Our product pricing is based on the assumption that increases in manufacturing yields will continue, even with the increasing complexity of our semiconductors. However, we may experience fluctuations in the manufacturing yield in some cases and thus be unable to sustain a high and improving yield level. Furthermore, shorter product life cycles require us to develop new products faster and require our contract foundry to manufacture these products in shorter periods of time. In some cases, these shorter manufacturing periods may not reach the high volume manufacturing periods conducive to higher manufacturing yields and declining costs. If our contract foundry fails to deliver fabricated silicon wafers of satisfactory quality in the volume and at the price required, we may be unable to meet our customers’ demand for our products or to sell those products at an acceptable profit margin, which would adversely affect our sales and margins and damage our customer relationships. 10 ACTIONS SEMICONDUCTOR CO., LTD. Our products are complex and may require modifications to resolve undetected errors or failures in our hardware and software, which could lead to an increase in our costs, a loss of customers or a delay in market acceptance of our products. Our SoCs and total solutions are complex and may contain undetected hardware and software errors or failures when first introduced or as new versions are released. These errors could cause us to incur significant re-engineering costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from product development efforts and harm both our customer relations and business reputation. If we deliver products with errors, defects or bugs, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our products could be harmed. We provide warranties for product defects under which we must collect and replace defective goods upon receipt of notice from our customers. Increased claims under these warranties would increase our costs and adversely affect our profitability. Defects could also lead to liability as a result of lawsuits against us or against our customers. Our products are manufactured across several sites throughout China. Failure to deliver the work-in-process in time from one site to another may lead to higher operation costs, a decrease in sales and harm our reputation. Our principle operation center and our third-party manufacturing partners such as foundry service providers, testing houses and packing subcontractors are all located throughout China. The distance between manufacturing sites is long and the delivery of raw material, work-in-process, and finished goods relies on the land-carriage and air-express, which are restricted by the weather and transportation conditions. Any delay in delivery could have a negative effect on our operations and may lead to higher operating costs, a decrease in sales, and harm our reputation and customer relationships. Our principal contract foundry, other subcontractors and many of our customers are located in the Pacific Rim, an area subject to significant risk of snowstorms, earthquakes, typhoons, and adverse consequences related to the outbreak of SARS(Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome), avian influenza and other public health concerns. The principal contract foundry that manufactures our products and all of the principal subcontractors that assemble, package, and test our products are located in either China, Hong Kong, or Taiwan. Many of our customers are also located in these areas. The risk of snowstorms, earthquakes, typhoons and other natural disasters in these Pacific Rim locations is significant. The occurrence of an earthquake or other natural disaster near our principal contract foundry or subcontractors could result in damage, power outages and other disruptions that impair their production and assembly capacity. Any disruption resulting from such events could cause significant delays in the production or shipment of our products until we are able to shift our manufacturing, assembling, packaging or production testing from the affected contractor to another third-party vendor. For example, in January and February of 2008, China’s worst snowstorm in more than half a century caused a significant adverse impact on the transportation industry and the economy of China. In May 2008, a major earthquake occurred with its epicenter in Sichuan, China. The earthquake caused over 69,000 known deaths and estimated property damage in excess of US$20 billion. As a result of the earthquake, the economy of China was adversely affected. Also, the 2003 outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, curtailed travel to and from certain countries (primarily in the Asia-Pacific region) and limited travel and consumer activities within those countries, which had a significant adverse effect on the economies of many countries in this region. In addition, since 1997, certain Asian countries, including China, have, from time to time, encountered incidents of avian influenza that resulted in several confirmed human cases and deaths and significant disruption to worker productivity. Any future outbreaks of SARS, avian influenza or other public health concerns could result in a significant negative impact on the economy in China and the Asia-Pacific region, harming our business. We may experience significant period-to-period quarterly and annual fluctuations in our revenues and operating results, which may result in volatility in our stock price. The industry in which we operate is highly cyclical and is currently experiencing an unprecedented downturn which has negatively impacted our business. Currently, this industry is experiencing a dramatic and unprecedented decline in demand for semiconductor devices due to the worldwide economic downturn. The unprecedented nature of the global economic and financial downturn may result in changes in the semiconductor industry and the manner in which we must conduct our business. We have had in the past and may in the future experience significant period-to-period fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. It is possible that our revenues and operating results in some quarters may be below market expectations, which would cause the value of our ordinary shares and ADSs to decline. Our quarterly and annual operating results are affected by a number of factors, including: 11 ACTIONS SEMICONDUCTOR CO., LTD. • the unpredictable timing and volume of purchase orders and cancellations from our customers; • the rate of acceptance of our products by our customers; • the rate of growth of the market for portable media players and our SoCs; • fluctuation and seasonality in demand for consumer electronics products; • increases in prices charged by contract foundries and other third-party subcontractors; • the availability of third-party foundry capacity; • the availability and pricing of other components used in our customers’ products, including NAND Flash memory and TFT-LCD panels; • fluctuations in our contract foundry’s manufacturing yields; • the difficulty of forecasting and managing our inventory and production levels; • our ability to successfully develop, introduce and sell new or enhanced products; • additions or departures of key personnel; • our involvement in litigation; • natural disasters, particularly earthquakes, snowstorms or disease outbreaks affecting countries in which we conduct our business or in which our products are manufactured, assembled, or tested; and • the evolution of industry standards and introduction of new products by our competitors. Because the markets in which we compete are highly competitive and many of our competitors have greater resources than us, we cannot be certain that our products will compete successfully and we may lose or be unable to gain market share. We face competition from a relatively large number of competitors in China and internationally. In the portable media player market, our principal competitors include ALi, AllWinner, Amlogic, Anyka, BestRely, Buildwin, Freescale (SigmaTel), Rockchips, Samsung, Sigma Design, Silicon Motion, Sino Wealth, Sunplus and Telechips. As we diversify and expand our product categories, we may also face competition from other semiconductor companies and manufacturers of consumer electronics and mobile devices. We expect to face increased competition in the future from our current and emerging competitors. In addition, some of our customers have developed and other customers could develop technology or products internally that could replace their need for our products or otherwise reduce demand for our products. Our customers may also enter into strategic relationships with or acquire existing semiconductor design companies. The consumer electronics market, which is the principal end market for our SoCs, has historically been subject to intense price competition. In many cases, low cost, high volume producers have entered markets and driven down profit margins. If a low cost, high volume producer should develop products that are competitive with our products, our sales and profit margins would suffer. Some of our potential competitors may have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, access to larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than us. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to changing customer demands or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sales of their products than we can. Our current and potential competitors may develop and introduce new products that will be priced lower, provide superior performance or achieve greater market acceptance than our products. In addition, in the event of a manufacturing capacity shortage, these competitors may be able to obtain capacity when we are unable to do so. Furthermore, our current or potential competitors have established, or may establish, financial and strategic relationships among themselves or with existing or potential customers or other third-parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of our prospective customers. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share, which would harm our business. If we fail to compete successfully, our business will suffer and we may lose or be unable to gain market share. 12 ACTIONS SEMICONDUCTOR CO., LTD. Our business may be severely disrupted if we lose the services of our key executives and employees or fail to add new senior and mid-level managers to our management. Our future success is heavily dependent upon the continued service of our board of directors and key executives. Our future success is also dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified senior and mid-level managers to our management team. If one or more of our key executives and employees are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to easily replace them, and our business may be severely disrupted. In addition, if any of these key executives or employees joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we could lose customers and suppliers and incur additional expenses to recruit and train personnel. We do not maintain life insurance for any of our key executives. We also rely on a number of key technology staff for the operation of our company. Given the competitive nature of our industry, the risk of key technology staff leaving our company is high and losses of significant numbers of technology staff could disrupt our operations. Our inability to retain and attract qualified technical personnel in the future, or delays in hiring such additional personnel, could make it difficult to meet key objectives, such as timely and effective product introductions. We may not be able to successfully execute future acquisitions or investments or manage or effectively integrate any acquired business, technologies or teams. We seek to acquire or invest in businesses that are complementary to ours. This may require a significant commitment of management time, capital investment and other management resources. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in identifying and negotiating acquisitions or investments on terms favorable to us. If we are unable to execute, manage or integrate our acquisitions and investments effectively, our growth, operating results and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. We have limited business insurance coverage and may be subject to losses that might not be covered by existing insurance coverage. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products. As a result, we do not have business liability or disruption insurance coverage for our operations. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. We believe we are a “passive foreign investment company” (“PFIC”), for U.S. federal income tax purposes for calendar year 2009 and in future years. Assuming the Company is treated as a PFIC, U.S. investors in the ADSs will be subject to certain adverse U.S. federal income tax rules. We believe we were a PFIC, as that term is defined in Section 1297 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, for calendar year 2009 and believe we will be a PFIC in the foreseeable future. Consequently, this classification may result in adverse tax consequences, for U.S. holders. See the discussion about taxation in Item 10 of this Annual Report. U.S. shareholders and prospective holders of our ADSs are encouraged to consult their own tax advisers regarding the consequences of our PFIC status under U.S. federal income tax rules. Risks Related to Intellectual Property We or our customers may be exposed to infringement claims on intellectual property rights by third-parties. Third-parties, including our competitors, may in the future make claims or initiate litigation that assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights in technologies, related standards and product names that are relevant to us. As we continue to expand our operations and the number of products we manufacture, the risk of such claims may increase. In addition to making claims against us, third-parties may make claims against our customers that incorporate our SoCs into their products. Such actions could adversely affect our relationships with such customers and hurt our sales. The large number of patents in the semiconductor industry, the confidential treatment of some pending patent applications and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents make it neither economically feasible nor possible to determine conclusively in advance whether a product, any of its components, its method of manufacture or use, or its ornamental design, currently infringes or will in the future infringe upon the patent rights of others. Parties making infringement claims may be able to obtain an injunction that could prevent us from selling our products or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property, which could have a material negative effect on our business. Third-parties making infringement claims may also be able to bring an action before the ITC that could result in an order stopping the importation into the United States of our products or bring similar actions in other parts of the world. Further, in addition to claims that may be made directly against us, we may be named in infringement actions made against our manufacturers, suppliers or customers. Some of our customer contracts provide that we indemnify the customer against claims of infringement based on our products. Regardless of the merit of these claims, they can be time-consuming, and result in costly litigation and divert the attention of our technical and management personnel. 13 ACTIONS SEMICONDUCTOR CO., LTD. To resolve any claim made against us, we may be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology or obtain a license for the relevant intellectual property, each of which could be costly and time consuming. Licenses may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, or at all. We might also be required to cease using the trademark or trademarks under which our products were being marketed and sold. If any infringement or other intellectual property-based claim made against us by any third-party is successful, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We rely upon third-party licensed technology to develop our products. If licenses of third-party technology do not continue to be available to us or become very expensive, our ability to develop and introduce new products could be negatively impacted. We integrate third-party software or other licensed technology into almost all of our products. From time to time, we may be required to license additional technology from third-parties to develop new products or product enhancements. However, these third-party licenses may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Further, some of our existing licenses can be terminated without cause by the licensor. Our inability to maintain existing licenses on reasonable terms, or obtain additional licenses necessary to develop new products and product enhancements, could require us to obtain substitute technology at a greater cost or of lower quality or performance standards or delay product development. Any of these results may limit our ability to develop new products that utilize the latest technologies, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products are designed for use in devices manufactured by our customers that comply with international standards. These international standards are often covered by patents or copyrights held by third-parties, which may include our competitors. Before we design our products, we discuss with our customers the proprietary technologies that we must incorporate into our SoCs and the international standards that our SoCs must meet to function in the targeted portable media player products. We then obtain licenses required to incorporate each of those proprietary technologies into SoCs that meet these standards. The combined costs of identifying and obtaining licenses from all holders of patents and copyrights essential to such international standards could be high and could reduce our profitability or increase our losses. The cost of not obtaining such licenses could also be high if a holder of such patent or copyrights brings a claim for patent or copyright infringement. Any claims for indemnification that may be made could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our rights to the intellectual property we develop may be difficult to enforce. We generally rely on patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws to establish and protect the proprietary rights in our know-how, technology, products, and product names. Our patent and trademark applications may not be granted, or if granted, may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by others. Further, we cannot be sure that any rights granted under patents, trademarks, copyrights or proprietary rights that are issued or registered will be sufficient to protect our technology or will in fact provide competitive advantages to us. If we are unable to protect the key intellectual property that we develop and use in our products, our ability to compete effectively may be diminished. Our success also depends on our other rights in proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret, trademark and contractual protection to establish and protect our proprietary rights that are not protected by patents, and we also typically enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and consultants. We require our customers to enter into confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements before we disclose any sensitive aspect of our platforms, technology or business plans. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights through confidentiality and licensing agreements, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our platforms or technology. It is difficult to monitor unauthorized use of technology, particularly in China and other developing countries. In addition, our competitors may independently develop technology similar to ours. Our precautions may not prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property. 14 ACTIONS SEMICONDUCTOR CO., LTD. From time to time, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. Even where we take such actions, we cannot assure you that we will be successful or that our rights will be protected. Further, our headquarters, manufacturing operations and the principal market of most of our products are located in China. Our efforts to protect our proprietary rights could be ineffective in China where the laws may not protect proprietary rights as effectively as the laws do in other countries such as the United States. Our intellectual property indemnification practices may adversely impact our business. From time to time, we may be required to indemnify our customers for certain costs and damages of patent and copyright infringement in circumstances where our product is the factor creating the customer’s infringement exposure. This practice may subject us to significant indemnification claims by our customers and may adversely impact our business. Risks Related to our Industry Demand for our products is highly dependent on the consumer electronics market, which is characterized by short product life cycles and subject to risks related to product transitions and supply of other components. We derive almost all of our revenues from a limited number of products that are used in consumer electronic devices. The consumer electronics market is characterized by intense competition, rapidly changing technology, and continuously evolving consumer preferences. These factors result in the frequent introduction of new products, short product life cycles and significant price competition. The dynamic nature of this market limits our, as well as our customers’, ability to accurately forecast quarterly and annual sales. If we or our customers are unable to manage product transitions, our business and results of operations could be negatively affected. In addition, we are subject to the risk of supply problems for other components, such as flash memory and TFT- LCD display, which our customers require for manufacturing the consumer end products. For example, if our customers are unable to obtain sufficient supplies of other key components in their portable media players, the sales of our products that are also used in such devices would be adversely affected. A decrease in demand for consumer electronics will also decrease demand for our products, which will adversely affect our business and results of operations. The availability of digital media content may affect demand for our products. The demand for portable media players may be adversely impacted by the enforcement of limits on file sharing and downloadable media content. The major record labels are pursuing ways to curb consumer downloading of music from the Internet without paying any fees or royalties to the owners of that music. In particular, the Recording Industry Association of America, a recording industry trade group, has sued numerous individuals for distributing copyrighted songs over the Internet. The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that distributors of software for sharing music and video files may be held responsible for theft if their intent was to encourage users to illegally trade copyrighted files. This may cause websites offering such software to cease operating. If the record labels, other music or video producers, or other parties are successful in limiting the ability of consumers to obtain free music or videos on the Internet, the demand for consumer electronic devices such as portable media players that use our products may decline, which in turn could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to the highly cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical. The industry has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product life cycles (of both semiconductor companies’ and their customers’ products) and declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. In early 2009, the semiconductor industry experienced a dramatic and unprecedented decline in demand for semiconductor devices due to the worldwide economic downturn. The unprecedented nature of the global financial and economic downturn may result in changes in the semiconductor industry and the manner in which we must conduct our business, in ways that cannot now be predicted. If the global economic downturn continues, we anticipate our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected for a prolonged period of time. From time to time, the semiconductor industry also has faced periods of increased demand and production capacity constraints. We may experience substantial changes in future operating results due to semiconductor industry conditions, general economic conditions and other factors. The industry standards supported by our products are continually evolving, and our success depends on our ability to adapt our products to meet these changing industry standards. Our ability to compete in the future will depend on our ability to ensure that our products comply with changing industry standards. The emergence of new industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by our customers. As a result, we could be required to invest significant time and effort and to incur significant expense to redesign our products to ensure compliance with relevant standards. If our products do not comply with prevailing industry standards for a significant period of time, we could miss opportunities to make crucial product introductions. We may invest substantial effort and expense in developing or using new technologies or in developing new products or product enhancements, but such effort and expense may not result in market acceptance of our products. 15 ACTIONS SEMICONDUCTOR CO., LTD. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Taiwan regulations and recent changes in the policies of the Investment Commission in Taiwan relating to the involvement of Taiwanese persons in companies that have direct and indirect investments in the PRC may limit our ability to retain certain employees and members of our management. Pursuant to various Taiwan regulations promulgated by Taiwan’s Ministry of Economic Affairs, Investment Commission, or IC, no Taiwanese person or entity established under the laws of Taiwan, which we refer to as Taiwanese Persons, may invest, directly or indirectly, in a PRC entity unless the investment complies with certain regulations and policies relating to restrictions on investment and participation in investments in PRC companies, which we refer to as the PRC Investment Regulations, and is approved by the IC, or, in limited circumstances, a report to the IC has been filed. Furthermore, the IC has prohibited investments by Taiwanese Persons in certain industries in the PRC, including the semiconductor design industry and certain sectors of the semiconductor manufacturing industry. Under the PRC Investment Regulations, if (a) a Taiwanese Person invests in a non-Taiwan entity, or NTE, that invests in a PRC entity, and (b) such Taiwanese Person has “control and influence” over the NTE, that Taiwanese Person will be deemed to have made an indirect investment in the PRC and must abide by the PRC Investment Regulations. According to a press release issued by the IC on June 14, 2005, a Taiwanese Person will be deemed to have control and influence over the NTE if (i) that Taiwanese Person holds more than 5% of the equity of the NTE or is the largest shareholder of the NTE; (ii) the investment amount made by that Taiwanese Person in the NTE is over US$200,000; or (iii) that Taiwanese Person acts as a director, supervisory director or president of the NTE. Taiwanese Persons who violate these regulations and policies may be subject to both civil and even criminal sanctions in Taiwan. Certain of our employees and management are Taiwanese Persons. The Taiwan government may interpret its current regulations and policies, or the Taiwan government may change or amend its regulations and policies in this area, such that it considers one or more of our employees, management, and directors as having inappropriate control and influence. Such employee, manager or director, including our chief executive officer, could be required to leave the company or be subject to sanctions by the Taiwan Government. A slowdown in the growth of the Chinese economy may harm our growth and profitability. Our business is primarily dependent upon the economy and the business environment in China. In particular, our growth strategy is based upon the assumption that demand in China for portable media players will continue to grow with the Chinese economy. However, the growth of the Chinese economy has been uneven across geographic regions and economic sectors. Several years ago, the Chinese economy also experienced deflation, which may reoccur in the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that growth of the Chinese economy will be steady, uniform or that any slowdown will not have a negative effect on our business. China’s legal system is characterized by uncertainty that could negatively impact our business and results of operations. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little value as precedent. Beginning in 1979, the PRC government promulgated a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters, which has had the overall effect of significantly enhancing the protections afforded to foreign invested enterprises in China. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively new and are evolving rapidly, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to foreign investors. In addition, enforcement of existing laws, or contracts based on existing law, may be uncertain and sporadic, and it may be difficult to obtain swift and equitable enforcement or to obtain enforcement of a judgment by a court of another jurisdiction. The relative inexperience of China’s judiciary in many cases creates additional uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. Furthermore, interpretation of statutes and regulations may be subject to new government policies reflecting domestic political changes. Our activities in China will be subject to administrative review and approval by various national and local agencies of the PRC government. Because of the changes occurring in China’s legal and regulatory structure, we may not be able to secure the requisite governmental approval for our activities. Failure to obtain the requisite governmental approval for any of our activities could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 16 ACTIONS SEMICONDUCTOR CO., LTD. Changes in China’s political and economic policies could negatively impact our business. Substantially all of our business operations are conducted in China. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject in a significant degree to the economic, political and legal developments in China. China’s economy has historically been a planned economy subject to governmental plans and quotas and has, in certain aspects, been transitioning to a more market-oriented economy. Although we believe that the economic reform and the macroeconomic measures adopted by the PRC government have had a positive effect on the economic development of China, we cannot predict the future direction of these economic reforms or the effects these measures may have on our business, financial position or results of operations. In addition, the Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD. These differences include: • economic structure; • level of government involvement in the economy; • level of development; • level of capital reinvestment; • control of foreign exchange; • methods of allocating resources; and • balance of payments position. As a result of these differences, our business may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy were similar to those of the OECD member countries. Restrictions on foreign currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. Any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenues generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside China or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars or other foreign currencies. Although the PRC government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the Renminbi for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign invested enterprises may only buy, sell and/or remit foreign currencies at those banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange business after providing valid commercial documents. In addition, remittance of foreign currencies abroad and conversion of Renminbi for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi, especially with respect to foreign exchange transactions. Changes in the preferential tax treatments we currently enjoy in the PRC may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. The PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or EIT Law, effective January 1, 2008, has imposed a single uniform income tax rate of 25% for most domestic enterprises and foreign-invested enterprises. It contemplates various transition periods and measures for existing preferential tax policies, including among others, a grace period for as long as five years for foreign-invested enterprises which are currently entitled to a lower income tax rate, and continued implementation of preferential tax treatment with a fixed term until the expiration of such fixed term. 17 ACTIONS SEMICONDUCTOR CO., LTD. Each of our principal and major PRC subsidiaries, Actions Semiconductor (Zhuhai) and Artek Microelectronics (Shenzhen), respectively, is a foreign invested enterprise operating in a designated economic zone. Actions Semiconductor (Zhuhai) benefited from a 7.5% preferential enterprise income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2007, 9.0% for the year ended December 31, 2008, and 15.0% for the year ended December 31, 2009. Artek Microelectronics (Shenzhen) was exempted from income tax duty for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2008 and benefited from a 10.0% preferential rate for the year ended December 31, 2009. We expect that our overall applicable tax rates will increase in 2010 and further increase following the expiry of the above preferential tax treatment in December 2011. We may be deemed a Chinese resident enterprise under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and be subject to the PRC taxation on our worldwide income. Under the EIT Law, if any enterprise incorporated outside the PRC has its “de facto management body” located within the PRC, such enterprise may be recognized as a PRC resident enterprise and be subject to the unified enterprise income tax rate of 25%. On December 6, 2007, the Implementation Rules of the EIT Law were promulgated. It defined the “de facto management body” as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and treasury, and acquisition and disposition of properties and other assets of an enterprise. Currently no interpretation or application of the EIT Law and its implementing rules is available for non-Chinese enterprise or group enterprise controlled entity. Therefore, it is unclear whether PRC tax authorities would treated us as a PRC resident enterprise.. If we or any of our subsidiaries that are not incorporated in the PRC are treated as a PRC resident enterprise, we or any such subsidiaries, as the case may be, will be subject to PRC enterprise income tax on our worldwide income, or on the worldwide income of such subsidiaries, as the case may be, at the 25% uniform tax rate, which could have an impact on our effective tax rate and an adverse effect on our net income and results of operations and increase our income tax expenses. Dividends we receive from our non-PRC resident subsidiaries and dividends payable by us to our foreign investors and gain on the sale of our Shares may become subject to withholding taxes under PRC tax laws. According to the EIT Law, dividends received by a PRC resident enterprise from another PRC resident are exempted from enterprise income tax except for the dividends derived from publicly issued and traded shares of a resident enterprise that are held for less than 12 consecutive months. However, given the short history of the EIT Law and its subsequently issued circulars retroacting to January 1, 2009, it remains unclear whether we, Actions Semiconductor Co., Ltd., and/or our overseas holding companies will be treated as PRC resident enterprises or, if so, whether dividends declared and paid by our subsidiaries in the PRC to our overseas holding companies and by our overseas holding companies to us will be exempted from enterprise income tax. Under the EIT Law and implementation regulations issued by the State Council, PRC income tax at the rate of 10% is applicable to dividends payable to investors that are “non-resident enterprises” (and that do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC, or that have such establishment or place of business but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business) to the extent such dividends have their source within the PRC. Under PRC Individual Income Tax Law, individuals are generally liable for a 20% individual income tax on dividend income. Such individual income tax should apply to dividends received by a non-resident individual from a PRC resident enterprise. A reduced tax rate on dividends may be applicable for non-resident enterprise investors and nonresident individual investors under an applicable tax treaty or tax arrangement between the PRC and the investor’s resident country or region. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of shares by non-resident enterprise and individual investors is also subject to a 10% PRC enterprise income tax and a 20% individual income tax, respectively, if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC unless otherwise exempted under PRC domestic regulations and applicable tax treaties or tax arrangements. Our subsidiaries in China are foreign-invested enterprises directly held by our subsidiaries in Hong Kong or Mauritius. According to the tax treaties between China and Hong Kong and between China and Mauritius, dividends payable by a foreign-invested enterprise in China to a company in Hong Kong or to a company in Mauritius, which directly holds at least 25% of the equity interests in the foreign-invested enterprise, will be subject to a withholding tax of 5%. However, on February 20, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation promulgated the Notice on Relevant Issues of Implementing Dividend Clauses under Tax Treaties, or the 2009 February Notice, clarifying that no enterprise is entitled to the preferential treatment on dividend withholding tax rates pursuant to any tax treaties if such enterprise becomes qualified for such preferential tax rates through any transaction or arrangement whose major purpose is to obtain such preferential tax treatment. The tax authority in charge has the right to make adjustments to the applicable tax rates if it determines that any taxpayer has enjoyed preferential treatment under tax treaties as a result of such transaction or arrangement. Furthermore, on August 24, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation promulgated the Administrative Measures on Treatment of Non-residents under Tax Treaties (Trial Implementation), or 2009 August Notice, which became effective on October 1, 2009. According to the 2009 August Notice, any non-resident who wishes to enjoy tax treaty treatment under the following sections in the relevant tax treaties shall apply to the tax authorities with competent jurisdiction for approval: (i) dividend; (ii) interest; (iii) royalty; and (iv) property income. The relevant tax authorities shall have twenty to fifty working days, after an application is accepted, to decide whether to approve such application. If the relevant tax authorities do not notify the applicant of the approving result in writing within the above time frame, the relevant application shall be deemed to have been approved. We have not applied to the relevant tax authorities for enjoying the withholding tax rate under the tax treaty between China and Hong Kong or the tax treaty between China and Mauritius so far. Since both the 2009 February Notice and the 2009 August Notice are newly issued, it remains unclear how the PRC tax authorities will implement them in practice and to what extent they will affect the dividend withholding tax rates for dividends distributed by our subsidiaries in China to our Hong Kong subsidiaries or our Mauritius subsidiary. If the relevant tax authority determines that our Hong Kong subsidiaries and Mauritius subsidiary were set up to take advantage of the preferential tax rates on dividends, or our application for enjoying the withholding tax rate under the tax treaty between China and Hong Kong or the tax treaty between China and Mauritius cannot be approved by the competent tax authorities, the higher 10% withholding tax rate may apply to such dividends. If we are considered as a PRC “resident enterprise”, the dividends we pay with respect to our ADSs, or the gain you may realize from the transfer of our ADSs, could be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and be subject to PRC tax. In addition, dividends distributed from our PRC subsidiaries to our Hong Kong companies or Mauritius company and ultimately to our Cayman Islands company, could be exempt from PRC dividend withholding tax, and dividends from our Cayman Islands company to our ultimate shareholders would be subject to PRC withholding tax at 10% and 20% for institutional or individual shareholders, respectively, or a lower treaty rate, depending on the residences of the shareholders. If we are required under the EIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on our dividends payable to our non PRC resident shareholders, or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of your ADSs, the value of your investment in our ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. We face uncertainty from China’s Circular on Strengthening the Administration of Enterprise Income Tax on Non-Resident Enterprises' Share Transfer (“Circular 698”) that was released in December 2009 with retroactive effect from January 1, 2008. The Chinese State Administration of Taxation (SAT) released a circular (Guoshuihan No. 698 – Circular 698) on December 15, 2009 that addresses the transfer of shares by nonresident companies. Circular 698, which is effective retroactively to January 1, 2008, may have a significant impact on many companies that use offshore holding companies to invest in China. Circular 698, which provides parties with a short period of time to comply with its requirements, indirectly taxes foreign companies on gains derived from the indirect sale of a Chinese company. Where a foreign investor indirectly transfers equity interests in a Chinese resident enterprise by selling the shares in an offshore holding company, and the latter is located in a country or jurisdiction where the effective tax burden is less than 12.5% or where the offshore income of his, her, or its residents is not taxable, the foreign investor is required to provide the tax authority in charge of that Chinese resident enterprise with the relevant information within 30 days of the transfers. Moreover, where a foreign investor indirectly transfers equity interests in a Chinese resident enterprise through an abuse of form of organization with no reasonable commercial purposes such that the corporate income tax liability is avoided, the PRC tax authority will have the power to re-assess the nature of the equity transfer in accordance with PRC’s “substance-over-form” principle and deny the existence of the offshore holding company that is used for tax planning purposes. There is uncertainty as to the application of Circular 698. For example, while the term "indirectly transfer" is not defined, it is understood that the relevant PRC tax authorities have jurisdiction regarding requests for information over a wide range of foreign entities having no direct contact with China. Moreover, the relevant authority has not yet promulgated any formal provisions or formally declared or stated how to calculate the effective tax in the country or jurisdiction and to what extent and the process of the disclosure to the tax authority in charge of that Chinese resident enterprise. In addition, there are not any formal declarations with regard to how to decide “abuse of form of organization” and “reasonable commercial purpose,” which can be utilized by us to balance if our company complies with Circular 698. As a result, we may become at risk of being taxed under Circular 698 and we may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with Circular 698 or to establish that we should not be taxed under Circular 698, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely principally on dividends paid by our subsidiaries to fund any cash and financing requirements we may have, and any limitation on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are a holding company and rely principally on dividends paid by our subsidiaries for cash requirements, including the funds necessary to service any debt we may incur. If any of our subsidiaries incurs debt in its own name in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict dividends or other distributions on its equity interest to us. 18 ACTIONS SEMICONDUCTOR CO., LTD. Furthermore, applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations permit payment of dividends by our combined PRC entities only out of their retained earnings, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards. Our PRC subsidiaries are required to set aside a certain percentage of their after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to their reserve fund in accordance with the requirements of relevant laws and provisions in their respective articles of associations. As a result, our PRC subsidiaries may be restricted in their ability to transfer a portion of their net income to us whether in the form of dividends, loans or advances. Any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends or otherwise fund and conduct our business. Fluctuations in the value of the Renminbi could negatively impact our results of operations. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar and virtually all of our sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. Our operating expenses and substantially all of our assets and liabilities are denominated in Renminbi. As a result, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange risk, and our results of operations may be negatively impacted by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and Renminbi. Due to the potential substantial volatility of currency exchange rates caused by the unprecedented turmoil in the global financial market, we cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon our financial statements and future operating results. Generally, if the Renminbi appreciates against the U.S. dollar, our operating expenses will increase and, as a consequence, our operating margins and net income will likely decline. However, this effect may partially offset by the fact that we also incur expenses and liabilities in U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies and have our major interest-generating financing activities in Renminbi. We believe that the potential loss that would result from an increase or decrease in the exchange rate may have an adverse impact on us. The value of the Renminbi is subject to changes in China’s governmental policies and to international economic and political developments. Since January 1, 1994, the PRC government has used a unitary managed floating rate system. Under this system, the People’s Bank of China, or PBOC, publishes a daily base exchange rate with reference primarily to the supply and demand of Renminbi against U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies in the market during the previous day. Authorized banks and financial institutions are allowed to quote buy and sell rates for Renminbi within a specified band around the central bank’s daily exchange rate. However, since July 2005 the Renminbi has been no longer pegged solely to the U.S. dollar. Instead, it is reported to be pegged against a basket of currencies, determined by the People’s Bank of China, against which it can rise or fall by as much as 0.3% each day. This volatility range was further expanded by the People’s Bank of China by 0.5% each day since May 21, 2007. The Renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the long term, depending on the fluctuation of the basket of currencies against which it is currently valued or it may be permitted to enter into a full float, which may also result in a significant appreciation or depreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. As we rely entirely on dividends paid to us by Actions Semiconductor (Zhuhai) and Artek Microelectronics (Shenzhen), any significant devaluation of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Reduction in interest rates will result in a decrease in our interest income. Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to the interest income generated by our cash deposits in banks and other financial institutions. In 2007, 2008 and 2009, the rate of return on cash deposit was 3.2%, 4.7% and 4.3%, respectively. However, in light of the current global economic downturn and relaxed monetary policy, interest rates for cash deposits may stay in low levels during an extended period of time. For example, China’s central bank cut interest rates several times in 2008 and did not raise them in the whole year of 2009. As of December 31, 2008 and 2009, the one-year Renminbi deposit rate sustained at 2.25% in China. If global economic and market conditions remain uncertain or deteriorate further, decreased interest rate might adversely affect out interest income and further impact our net income. We have not used derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio to hedge interest rate risks or otherwise. Interest-earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. However, historically we have not been exposed to material risks due to changes in interest rates. Our future interest income may fluctuate in line with the changes in interest rates. The systematic credit risks among banking and financial institutions in China and worldwide may negatively impact our results of cash management and eventually shareholder’s equity. As of December 31, 2009, we had marketable securities, current and non-current, of US$ 163.8 million. These marketable securities were principal guaranteed investments with higher interest rates and mainly with 3 to 24 month terms. Most of them were issued, managed or guaranteed by state-owned banks or financial institutions in China. Chinese government has been closely supervising its state-owned banks and financial institutions since the global financial crisis in 2008 and did not allow any delinquencies in credit guaranteed by them. However, if Chinese government relaxes its discipline on its banking and financial systems, the systematic credit risks may cause our investments in marketable securities to become uncollectible, impact our results of cash management, and eventually deteriorate shareholder’s equity. The global economic downturn may cause a decrease in the value of our assets, resulting in a decrease in shareholder’s equity. As of December 31, 2009, we had properties, intangible assets, long-term investments and inventories of US$ 16.0 million, US$ 3.6 million, US$ 4.8 million and US$ 4.5 million, respectively. The global economic downturn may have a great impact on the value of our assets and the value of our properties and intangible assets may decrease. We may also experience a decrease in our long-term investments due to the loss of profits of our subsidiaries. In addition, the demand for our products may decline sharply in an economic downturn, but our ability to reduce inventories quickly is limited by delays associated with order cancellations, the lag between production and delivery of our products, and reducing deliveries from our supplier pipeline. During an extended downturn, a portion of our inventory may have to be written down as excess or obsolete if it is not sold in a timely manner. Therefore, the value of our total assets may decrease, which will adversely affect shareholder’s equity. 19 ACTIONS SEMICONDUCTOR CO., LTD. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure and Our ADSs We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than under U.S. law, there may be less protection of your shareholder rights than you would have under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, the rights of minority shareholders to institute actions, and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, the latter of which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of our board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a U.S. company. We may incur significant costs to avoid being considered an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Generally, the Investment Company Act of 1940, or the 1940 Act, provides that a company is not an investment company and is not required to register under the 1940 Act as an investment company if the company is primarily engaged, directly or through a wholly-owned subsidiary or subsidiaries, in a business or businesses other than that of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities or has investment securities that comprise less than 40% of its total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities or cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. We are a fabless semiconductor company that engages primarily in the businesses of designing, developing and marketing integrated platform systems, including SoCs, firmware, software development tools and reference designs, for manufacturers of portable multimedia players. Also, based on the primary activities of our officers and directors and an analysis of our income during 2009, we do not believe we will be considered an investment company. Nevertheless, a part of the determination of whether we will be an investment company will be based upon the composition and value of our assets, a significant portion of which are time deposits, restricted cash in the form of loan guarantees and marketable securities that are subject to change, particularly when market conditions are volatile. As a result, we could inadvertently become an investment company. If we were to become subject to the requirements of the 1940 Act, our operations and results would be negatively impacted in a significant manner, including among other possible effects, our inability to borrow money or raise capital through the offer and sale of our securities in the United States. We could also be subject to administrative or legal proceedings and, among other things, contracts to which we are a party might be rendered unenforceable or subject to rescission. Additionally, we would be unable to continue operating as we currently do and might need to acquire or sell assets that we would not otherwise acquire or sell in order to avoid becoming an "investment company" as defined under the 1940 Act. We may incur significant costs and management time to avoid being considered an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. Your ability to bring an action against us or against our directors and officers, or to enforce a judgment against us or them, will be limited because we are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, because we conduct substantially all of our operations in China and because the majority of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and we conduct substantially all of our operations in China through Actions Semiconductor (Zhuhai) and Artek Microelectronics (Shenzhen). Most of our directors and officers reside, and substantially all of the assets of those persons are located, outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the United States in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands or China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. 20 ACTIONS SEMICONDUCTOR CO., LTD. The price of our ADSs has been volatile and may continue to be volatile, which may make it difficult for holders to resell the ADSs when desired or at attractive prices. The trading price of our ADSs has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. Since our ADSs became listed in November 2005, the closing price of our ADSs on the Nasdaq Global Market has ranged from US$12.24 to US$1.35 per ADS and the last reported sale price on April 26, 2010 was US$2.4. Our ADSs price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors. The financial markets in general, and the market prices for many ADS issuers with a majority of operations in China in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. In addition to market and industry factors, the price and trading volume for our ADSs may be highly volatile for specific business reasons, including those discussed in this Risk Factors section. Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the volume and price at which our ADSs will be traded. We cannot give any assurance that these factors will not occur in the future. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to holders of our ordinary shares, including rights to acquire our securities. We cannot offer to holders of our ADSs those rights unless the securities to which the rights relate are either registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, which we refer to in this document as the Securities Act, or exempt from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. The depositary may allow rights that are not distributed or sold to lapse. In that case, you will receive no value for them. Holders of ADSs may not be able to exercise the rights of shareholders, including the right to vote as a shareholder. As a holder of our ADSs, you will not be recorded as a shareholder on the share register of the Company. Only registered holders of our ordinary shares are entitled as a matter of Cayman Islands law to exercise the rights of shareholders including voting their shares and receiving dividends and distributions. The depositary or its custodian will be the registered holder of all the ordinary shares represented by the ADSs and, thus, will be the only party entitled to exercise the rights of a shareholder with respect to those ordinary shares held by them. You will not be able to exercise the rights of a shareholder, including the right to vote, unless you withdraw the ordinary shares underlying the ADSs you hold. However, you may not be able to withdraw ordinary shares in time to be able to exercise your rights. For example, you may not know about shareholder meetings enough in advance to withdraw those ordinary shares. If we ask for your instructions, the depositary will notify you of an upcoming vote and arrange to deliver our voting materials to you. You may not receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ordinary shares. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions. This means that you may not be able to exercise your right to vote, and there may be little you can do if the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs are not voted as you requested. Except in limited circumstances, the depositary for our ADSs, in the case of poll voting will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs if you do not vote at a shareholders meeting, which could adversely affect your interests. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary, in the case of poll voting will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs at shareholders’ meetings if you do not vote, unless we notify the depositary that: • we do not wish to receive a discretionary proxy; • we think there is substantial shareholder opposition to the particular proposal; or • we think the particular proposal would have a material adverse impact on our shareholders. The effect of this discretionary proxy is that you cannot prevent our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs from being voted, absent the situations described above, and it may make it more difficult for shareholders to influence the management of our company. Holders of our ordinary shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. You may not receive dividends or other distributions on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to you. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian for our ADSs receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of our ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. We have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of our ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of our ADSs. This means that you may not receive the distributions we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us or the depositary to make them available to you. These restrictions may have a material adverse effect on the value of your ADSs. 21 ACTIONS SEMICONDUCTOR CO., LTD. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs represented by American Depositary Receipts, or ADRs, are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of our ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it is advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. You may be subject to limitations on transfers of our ordinary shares. Our ordinary shares are transferable subject to restrictions in our articles of association. However, our board of directors may, in its absolute discretion, decline to register any transfer of any ordinary share without assigning any reasons therefor. In addition, the registration of transfers may be suspended as our board of directors may determine, for up to 45 days in any year. ITEM 