Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to risk factors included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should also consider all the “Risks Related to Our Business and Operations Following Our Acquisition of Pac-Van,” “Risks Related to the Acquisition” and “Risk Related to our Substantial Indebtedness” as set forth in definitive proxy materials filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a special meeting of stockholders to be held on September 30, 2008, as described under “Subsequent Merger Announcement” in Item 1. Risks Related to Our Business Our overall financial results will be affected by the relative value of the Australian dollar to the U.S. dollar and may be affected by other currencies with future acquisitions While the past two years have seen gains in the Australian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar, there is a likelihood that that trend will reverse. If the Australian dollar loses value against the U.S. dollar then the value of the operating results and the value of the investment in Australia will decline for financial reporting purposes and our overall financial results will be diminished. Future acquisitions in other countries may further impact the currency exchange impact on our financial results and may not be offset by increases in our U.S. dollar-based operations. Sales of storage container units constitute a significant portion of Royal Wolf’s revenues. Failure to continue to sell units at historic levels could adversely affect our financial results and our ability to grow. Sales of storage container units and related modification revenues constituted approximately 70% of Royal Wolf’s total revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. Revenues from sales of storage container units have a material impact on our financial results and our ability to service our debt. Further, the funding of the growth of the container lease fleet is dependent upon the sales of storage container units to take advantage of business and growth opportunities available to it. 16 Table of Contents General or localized economic downturns or weakness may adversely affect Royal Wolf’s customers, in particular those in the mining, transport and construction industries, which may reduce demand for Royal Wolf’s products and services which would negatively impact our future revenues and results of operations. A significant portion of Royal Wolf’s revenues is derived from customers in industries and businesses that are cyclical in nature and subject to changes in general economic conditions, including the mining, transport and construction industries, which constituted approximately 15%, 21.5% and 11% respectively, of Royal Wolf’s revenues in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. Although we believe the variety of Royal Wolf’s products, the breadth of its customer base and its geographic diversity throughout Australia and New Zealand reduce its exposure to general economic or localized downturns, such downturns could reduce demand for Royal Wolf’s products and negatively impact our future revenues and results of operations. We may need additional debt or equity to sustain our growth, but we do not have commitments for such funds. We finance our growth through a combination of borrowings, cash flow from operations and equity financing. Our ability to continue growing at the pace we have historically grown will depend in part on our ability to obtain either additional debt or equity financing on acceptable terms and pricing. The terms on which debt and equity financing is available to us varies from time to time and is influenced by our performance and by external factors, such as the economy generally and developments in the market, that are beyond our control. Also, additional debt financing or the sale of additional equity securities may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. If we are unable to obtain additional debt or equity financing on acceptable terms, we may have to curtail our growth by delaying new branch openings, or, under certain circumstances, lease fleet expansion. Royal Wolf faces significant competition in the portable buildings industry and regional competition in the portable storage market. Royal Wolf also faces potentially significant competition from modular industry companies who have portable storage offerings, especially from national competitors in Australia who have greater financial resources and pricing flexibility than Royal Wolf does. If Royal Wolf is unable to compete successfully in these industries, it could lose customers and our future revenues could decline. Although Royal Wolf’s competition varies significantly by market, the portable buildings market in which Royal Wolf competes is dominated by three or four large participants and is highly competitive. In addition, Royal Wolf competes with a number of large to mid-sized regional competitors, as well as many smaller, full and part-time operators in many local regions. The modular space industry is highly competitive and almost all of the competitors have portable storage product offerings. The primary modular national competitors with portable storage offerings are less leveraged than Royal Wolf, and have greater financial resources and pricing flexibility than Royal Wolf does. If they focus on portable storage, Royal Wolf could lose customers and our future revenues could decline. If Royal Wolf is unable to compete successfully in these markets, it could lose customers and our future revenues could decline. We may be required to take certain actions to satisfy Bison Capital’s put option or our call option for Bison Capital’s 13.8% interest in GFN U.S. prior to when we determine it would be feasible to do so. We have entered into a shareholders agreement with Bison Capital with respect to our 86.2% and Bison Capital’s 13.8% ownership interest in GFN U.S., which indirectly owns Royal Wolf. Under our shareholders agreement with Bison Capital, at any time after September 13, 2009, Bison Capital has the option to cause us to purchase from them all of its 13.8% outstanding capital stock of GFN U.S. Also, under the shareholders agreement, we have the option to, at anytime prior to September 13, 2010, cause Bison Capital to sell and transfer its 13.8% outstanding capital stock of GFN U.S. to us. If Bison Capital exercises its put option or if we exercise our call option under unfavorable market conditions; we may choose to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, in order to satisfy the payment to Bison Capital for its 13.8% interest in GFN U.S. Any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. The failure of Royal Wolf to achieve its business strategy of increasing its leasing revenue could adversely affect the predictability of our quarterly earnings results and adversely affect our results of operations. Historically, sales of containers have been approximately 70% of Royal Wolf’s total revenues and leasing of containers has generated approximately 30% of total revenues. We are pursuing a strategy of increasing revenue generated from leasing operations. Revenues generated from sales can vary greatly from quarter to quarter, while revenue from leasing operations is more predictable. If we are not successful in increasing the percentage of our revenues generated by our leasing operations, our results of operations may vary greatly quarter to quarter, and would therefore be less predictable. In addition, if we are not successful in increasing the percentage of our revenues from our leasing operations, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Our customers lease our storage container products on a month-to-month basis, and our results of operations could be adversely affected by a downturn in economic activity. Should a significant number of Royal Wolf’s storage container products be returned by customers during a short period of time, Royal Wolf would have to lease a large supply of units to new customers at similar rates in order to maintain historic revenues from these operations. Royal Wolf’s failure to effectively lease to new customers a large influx of units returned by customers from leases could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 17 Table of Contents The supply and cost of used ocean-going containers fluctuates, which fluctuation could affect Royal Wolf’s pricing and our ability to grow. Royal Wolf currently purchases, refurbishes and modifies used ocean-going containers in order to replenish and expand its lease fleet. Various freight transportation companies, freight forwarders and commercial and retail storage companies also purchase used ocean-going containers. Many of these other companies have greater financial resources than Royal Wolf does. As a result, if the number of available containers for sale decreases, these competitors may be better able to absorb an increase in the cost of containers. If used ocean-going container prices increase substantially, Royal Wolf may not be able to purchase enough new units to maintain or increase the size of its fleet. These price increases also could increase Royal Wolf’s acquisition costs and operating expenses and adversely affect our results of operations and reduce our earnings. Conversely, an oversupply of used ocean-going containers may cause container prices to fall, which may result in competitors then lowering the lease rates on their storage units. As a result, Royal Wolf may need to lower its lease rates to remain competitive, which would cause our future revenues to decline. Governmental regulations could impose substantial costs and restrictions on Royal Wolf’s operations that could harm our future results of operations. Royal Wolf is subject to various Australia and New Zealand federal, state and local environmental, transportation, health and safety laws and regulations in connection with its operations. Any failure to comply with these laws or regulations could result in capital or operating expenditures or the imposition of severe penalties or restrictions on its operations or reductions or delays in sales of storage container products. In addition, these laws and regulations could change in a manner that materially and adversely affects Royal Wolf’s ability to conduct its business. More burdensome regulatory requirements in these or other areas may increase our general and administrative costs. If Royal Wolf is unable to pass these increased costs on to its customers, our future operating results could be negatively impacted. Royal Wolf may not be able to facilitate its growth strategy by identifying or completing transactions with attractive acquisition candidates, which could impair the growth and profitability of its business. An important element of our growth strategy for Royal Wolf is to continue to seek additional acquisitions in order to add new leasing customers within existing geographic markets and branch locations and to expand Royal Wolf’s operations into new markets. Any future growth through acquisitions will be partially dependent upon the continued availability of suitable acquisition candidates at favorable prices, upon advantageous terms and conditions and upon successful integration of the acquired businesses. However, future acquisitions may not be available at advantageous prices or upon favorable terms and conditions. In addition, acquisitions involve risks that the businesses acquired will not perform in accordance with expectations, that business judgments concerning the value, strengths and weaknesses of businesses acquired will prove incorrect, that the acquired businesses may not be integrated successfully and that the acquisitions may strain Royal Wolf’s management resources. Future acquisitions and any necessary related financings also may involve significant transaction-related expenses. If Royal Wolf is unable to complete additional acquisitions or successfully integrate any businesses that it does acquire, our future growth and operating results would be adversely impacted. There is no assurance that we or Royal Wolf will be able to identify, negotiate or complete any future acquisitions, or, if completed that any such acquisitions will be successful. Failure to retain key personnel could adversely affect Royal Wolf’s operations and could impede our ability to execute our business plan and growth strategy. Royal Wolf is managed largely by its existing officers, including Robert Allan, its Chief Executive Officer, and Peter McCann, its Chief Financial Officer. The continued success of Royal Wolf will depend largely on the efforts and abilities of these executive officers and certain other key employees. The ten members of the senior management team of Royal Wolf have an average of over 14 years of experience in the equipment leasing industry. These officers and employees have knowledge and an understanding of Royal Wolf and its industry that cannot be readily duplicated. Each of Messrs. Allan and McCann has an employment agreement which is terminable under certain circumstances upon notice to him. However, we do not have key-man insurance on any of these key personnel. The loss of any member of Royal Wolf’s senior management team could impair our ability to execute our business plan and growth strategy, cause a loss of customers, reduce revenues and adversely affect employee morale. 18 Table of Contents Any failure of Royal Wolf’s management information systems could disrupt our business and result in decreased lease or sale revenues and increased overhead costs, which could negatively impact our results of operations. Royal Wolf depends on its management information systems to actively manage its lease fleet, control new unit capital spending and provide fleet information, including leasing history, condition and availability of our units. These functions enhance Royal Wolf’s ability to optimize fleet utilization, lease fleet condition and redeployment. The failure of Royal Wolf’s management information systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt its business and could result in, among other things, decreased leases or sales and increased overhead costs, which could negatively impact our results of operations. A write-off of all or a part of our goodwill and intangibles would hurt our operating results and reduce our stockholders’ equity. As a result of our acquisition of Royal Wolf and subsequent acquisitions, we have recorded significant intangible assets related to goodwill, which represent the excess of the total purchase price of the acquisitions over the fair value of the net assets acquired. We are not permitted to amortize goodwill under the U.S. accounting standards and instead are required to review goodwill and other non-amortizable intangibles at least annually for impairment. In the event impairment is identified, a charge to earnings would be recorded. Although it does not affect our cash flow, a write-off in future periods of all or a part of our goodwill or intangibles would hurt our operating results and stockholders’ equity. We are unable to currently estimate if and when it may become necessary to write-off goodwill or intangibles or the effect such a write-off may have on our financial results or the market prices of our securities. Significant increases in raw material costs could increase our operating costs significantly and harm our stockholders’ equity. Royal Wolf purchases raw materials, including metals, lumber, siding and roofing and other products, to perform periodic refurbishment of its units and to modify containers to its customers’ requirements. During periods of rising prices for raw materials, and in particular when the prices increase rapidly or to levels significantly higher than normal, we may incur significant increases in our operating costs and may not be able to pass price increases through to our customers in a timely manner, which could harm our future results of operations. Failure by Chinese manufacturers to sell and deliver products to Royal Wolf in timely fashion may harm Royal Wolf’s reputation and our financial condition. Royal Wolf currently purchases new storage container products directly from container manufacturers in China. Although Royal Wolf is not dependent on any one manufacturer and is able to purchase products from a variety of suppliers, the failure of one or more of its suppliers to timely manufacture and deliver containers to Royal Wolf could adversely affect its operations. Royal Wolf purchases new storage container products under purchase orders issued to container manufacturers, which the manufacturers may or may not accept or be able to fill. Royal Wolf has no contracts with any supplier. If these suppliers do not timely fill Royal Wolf’s purchase orders, or do not properly manufacture the ordered products, our reputation and financial condition also could be harmed. Some zoning laws restrict the use of Royal Wolf’s storage container units and therefore limit its ability to offer its products in all markets. Most of Royal Wolf’s customers use Royal Wolf’s storage container units to store goods on their own properties. Local zoning laws in some of Royal Wolf’s geographic markets prohibit customers from maintaining portable storage units on their properties or require that portable storage units be located out of sight from the street. If local zoning laws in one or more of Royal Wolf’s geographic markets were to ban or restrict portable storage units stored on customers’ sites, Royal Wolf’s business in that market will suffer. Unionization by some or all of Royal Wolf’s employees could cause increases in operating costs. Royal Wolf’s employees are not presently covered by collective bargaining agreements. However, from time to time various unions have attempted to unionize some of Royal Wolf’s employees. We are unable to predict the outcome of any continuing or future efforts to unionize Royal Wolf’s employees, the terms of any future labor agreements, or the effect, if any, those agreements might have on our operations or financial performance. 19 Table of Contents We may not take certain actions with respect to Royal Wolf without the written consent of Bison Capital, as the holder of 13.8% of the outstanding capital stock of GFN U.S., which indirectly owns Royal Wolf. Under the shareholders agreement, neither GFN U.S. nor Royal Wolf may take certain actions without the written consent of Bison Capital, including, without limitation, selling material assets outside the ordinary course of business, entering into transactions with GFN, issuing capital stock to GFN without offering a pro rata share to Bison Capital, issuing capital stock to a third party, issuing subordinated debt to any person without offering Bison its pro rata share, paying dividends or, with certain exceptions, make other payments to GFN, changing the nature of the business, merging with any person that results in a change of control, or acquiring any business if the purchase price and assumed debt exceeds $10 million. Under our shareholders agreement with Bison Capital, we have agreed to acquire businesses comparable with Royal Wolf in a certain geographic territory solely through Royal Wolf. Under our shareholders agreement with Bison Capital, we have agreed to acquire businesses engaged in the sale and lease of portable storage containers, portable container buildings and freight containers in certain geographic territory solely through Royal Wolf. The geographic territory is that part of the world south of Guam, west of Hawaii and east of Viet Nam. Covenants in our debt instruments restrict or prohibit our ability to engage in or enter into a variety of transactions. The agreements governing our secured senior subordinated note with Bison Capital and our secured credit facility with Australian and New Zealand Banking Group Limited contain various covenants that may limit our discretion in operating our business. In particular, we are limited in our ability to merge, consolidate or transfer substantially all of our assets, issue preferred stock of subsidiaries and create liens on our assets to secure debt. In addition, if there is default, and we do not comply with certain financial covenants or maintain borrowing availability in excess of certain pre-determined levels, we may be unable to incur additional indebtedness, make restricted payments (including paying cash dividends on our capital stock) or redeem or repurchase our capital stock. Our secured credit facility requires us, under certain limited circumstances, to maintain certain financial ratios and limits our ability to make capital expenditures. These covenants and ratios could have an adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition or other corporate opportunities and to fund our operations. Breach of a covenant in our debt instruments could cause acceleration of a significant portion of our outstanding indebtedness. Any future debt could also contain financial and other covenants more restrictive than those imposed under the agreements governing the secured senior subordinated note and the secured credit facility. A breach of a covenant or other provision in any debt instrument governing our current or future indebtedness could result in a default under that instrument and, due to cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions, could result in a default under our other debt instruments. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the secured credit facility or any other debt instrument, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them, if any, to secure the indebtedness. If the lenders under our current or future indebtedness accelerate the payment of the indebtedness, we cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to repay in full our outstanding indebtedness. The amount we can borrow under our secured credit facility depends in part on the value of the portable storage units in our lease fleet. If the value of our lease fleet declines, the amount we are able to borrow may decline. We are required to satisfy several covenants with our lenders that are affected by changes in the value of our container for lease fleet. We would breach some of these covenants if the value of our lease fleet drops below specified levels. If this happens, we may not be able to borrow the amounts we need to expand our business, and we may be forced to liquidate a portion of our existing fleet. GFN or its subsidiaries’ operations may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to its meet debt service obligations. GFN or its subsidiaries’ ability to make payments on its indebtedness will depend on its ability to generate cash from operations. The business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to enable it to repay GFN or its subsidiaries’ indebtedness and to fund other liquidity needs, including capital expenditure requirements. The indebtedness to be incurred by GFN or its subsidiaries under the secured credit facility will bear interest at variable rates, and therefore if interest rates increase, GFN or its subsidiaries’ debt service requirements will increase. In such case, GFN or its subsidiaries may need to refinance or restructure all or a portion of its indebtedness on or before maturity. GFN or its subsidiaries may not be able to refinance any of its indebtedness, including the new credit facility, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If GFN or its subsidiaries cannot service or refinance its indebtedness, it may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents Ronald F. Valenta and John O. Johnson allocate some portion of their time to other businesses, which could cause conflicts of interest in their allocation of time to our affairs. These conflicts of interest could have a negative impact on our ability to function as an operating company and consummate future acquisitions. Our ability to be successful may depend on the efforts of Ronald F. Valenta and John O. Johnson. Neither Ronald F. Valenta, our Chief Executive Officer, nor John O. Johnson, our Chief Operating Officer, devotes or is required to devote his full time to our affairs. This could create a conflict of interest when allocating their time between our operations and their other commitments. These executive officers are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to devote any specific number of hours to our affairs. If these executive officers’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to function as an operating company and consummate future business combinations. Mr. Valenta has significant experience and contacts in owning, operating and acquiring companies in the business of equipment sales and leasing, our present business. Mr. Johnson has significant experience in acquisitions, and part of our strategy is to acquire additional businesses engaged in equipment sales and leasing. Neither Mr. Valenta nor Mr. Johnson has an employment agreement with us, and they are not currently compensated for their services, although Mr. Valenta and Mr. Johnson currently beneficially own approximately 18% and 5%, respectively, of our outstanding common stock. Mr. Johnson and Mr. Valenta intend to serve in their current capacities without compensation and employment agreement until October 1, 2008 and January 1, 2009, respectively. Ronald F. Valenta is affiliated with companies in the specialty finance business, which could create a conflict of interest in decisions affecting our business. Ronald F. Valenta, a director and our Chief Executive Officer, is also affiliated with other companies in the specialty finance industry. Among them, he is a director of and the Chairman of the Board of Directors of MOAC, the parent company of Pac-Van., a U.S. office modular and portable storage company that we are attempting to acquire, as described under “Subsequent Merger Announcement” in Item 1. Risks Associated with Future Acquisitions To complete future business combinations, we may issue shares of our capital stock that would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and could cause a change in control of our ownership, or incur debt, which could adversely affect our financial condition. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 100,000,000 shares of common stock and up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock. At June 30, 2008, there were 78,162,568 authorized shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants and options that may be issued under our 2006 Stock Option Plan). If we seek to consummate future business combinations, we may be required to issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, to complete the other business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: • may significantly reduce the equity interest of investors; • may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded to our common stock; • will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and • may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. In addition, we may incur substantial debt to complete another business combination. The incurrence of debt could result in: • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; • acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves are breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; • our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; and • our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt security instrument covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt instrument is outstanding. 21 Table of Contents While part of our business strategy is to acquire additional businesses, there is no assurance that we will be able to identify businesses that we can acquire upon terms we believe acceptable, or if such acquisitions require additional financing, that we could obtain such additional financing. If we do seek to complete other acquisitions, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for other future transactions. We cannot assure you that, if required, additional financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular acquisition, we would be compelled to either restructure the transaction or abandon that particular acquisition. In addition, if we consummate a future acquisition, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing may impact the continued development or growth of the target business. Our growth plan includes the expansion of Royal Wolf’s operations into markets outside of Australia and New Zealand, including Asia-Pacific areas. Such international expansion may not prove successful, and may divert significant capital, resources and management’s time and attention and adversely affect Royal Wolf’s on-going operations in Australia and New Zealand. To date, Royal Wolf has conducted all of its business within Australia and New Zealand. However, Royal Wolf has plans to enter international markets, including the Asia-Pacific area, in the future, which will require meaningful amounts of management time and attention. Royal Wolf’s products and its overall marketing approach may not be accepted in other markets to the extent needed to make its international expansion profitable. In addition, the additional demands on its management from these activities may detract from Royal Wolf’s efforts in the Australian and New Zealand markets and adversely affect its operating results in its principal market. Any international expansion will expose Royal Wolf to the risks normally associated with conducting international business operations, including unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, changes in foreign legislation, possible foreign currency controls, currency exchange rate fluctuations or devaluations, tariffs, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, difficulties in obtaining and managing vendors and distributors, potential negative tax consequences and difficulties collecting accounts receivable. Royal Wolf’s planned growth could strain our management resources, which could disrupt our development of new Royal Wolf CSCs. Our future performance will depend in large part on our ability to manage Royal Wolf’s planned growth. Royal Wolf’s growth could strain our existing management, human and other resources. To successfully manage this growth, we must continue to add managers and employees and improve Royal Wolf’s operating, financial and other internal procedures and controls. We also must effectively motivate, train and manage Royal Wolf’s employees. If we do not manage Royal Wolf’s growth effectively, some of its new CSCs and acquisitions may lose money or fail, and we may have to close unprofitable locations. Closing a CSC would likely result in additional expenses that would adversely affect our future operating results Future acquisitions of businesses could subject us to additional business, operating and industry risks, the impact of which cannot presently be evaluated, and could adversely impact our capital structure. We intend to pursue additional acquisition opportunities in an effort to diversify our investments and/or grow our business. Any business we acquire may cause us to be affected by numerous risks inherent in the acquired business’s operations. If we acquire a business in an industry characterized by a high level of risk, we may be affected by the currently unascertainable risks of that industry. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular industry or target business, we cannot assure you that we will be able to properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. In addition, the financing of any acquisition we complete could adversely impact our capital structure as any such financing would likely include the issuance of additional equity securities and/or the borrowing of additional funds. The issuance of additional equity securities may significantly reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and/or adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Increasing our indebtedness could increase the risk of a default that would entitle the holder to declare all of such indebtedness due and payable and/or to seize any collateral securing the indebtedness. In addition, default under one debt instrument could in turn permit lenders under other debt instruments to declare borrowings outstanding under those other instruments to be due and payable pursuant to cross default clauses. Accordingly, the financing of future acquisitions could adversely impact our capital structure and your equity interest in our company. Except as required by law or the rules of any securities exchange on which our securities might be listed at the time we seek to consummate a subsequent acquisition, you will not be asked to vote on any such proposed acquisition and no redemption rights in connection with any such acquisition will exist. Risks Associated with Our Warrants Our outstanding options and warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of common stock and increase the difficulty of effecting future business combination. At June 30, 2008, we had outstanding options and warrants to purchase 8,011,380 shares of common stock. The potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares of common stock upon exercise of these warrants and options could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business. Such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants and options could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future financing. 22 Table of Contents We may choose to redeem outstanding warrants at a time that it is disadvantageous to our warrant holders. Subject to there being a current prospectus under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, with respect to the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants issued as a part of the units in our initial public offering, we may redeem the warrants at any time after the warrants become exercisable, in whole and not in part, at a price of $.01 per warrant, upon a minimum of 30 days prior written notice of redemption, if and only if, the last sales price of our common stock equals or exceeds $11.50 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period ending three business days before the notice of redemption is sent. We may also elect to reduce the warrant price in our sole discretion to encourage warrant holders to exercise their warrants to purchase our common stock. Redemption of the warrants could force the warrant holders (i) to exercise the warrants and pay the exercise price therefore at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so, (ii) to sell the warrants at the then current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants, or (iii) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants. Although we are required to (and intend to) use our best efforts to have an effective registration statement covering the issuance of the shares underlying the warrants issued in our IPO at the time that the warrant holders exercise their warrants, we cannot guarantee that a registration statement will be effective, in which case the warrant holders may not be able to exercise their warrants. Holders of the warrants issued in our IPO will be able to receive shares upon exercise of the warrants only if (i) a current registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 relating to the shares of common stock underlying the warrants is then effective and (ii) such shares are qualified for sale or exempt from qualification under the applicable securities laws of the states in which the various holders of warrants reside. Although we have agreed in the warrant agreement, and therefore have a contractual obligation, to use our best efforts to maintain a current registration statement covering the shares underlying the warrants to the extent required by federal securities laws, and we intend to comply with such agreement, we cannot give assurance that we will be able to do so. In addition, some states may not permit us to register the shares issuable upon exercise of our warrants for sale. The value of the warrants will be greatly reduced if a registration statement covering the shares issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not kept current or if the securities are not qualified, or exempt from qualification, in the states in which the holders of warrants reside. Holders of warrants who reside in jurisdictions in which the shares underlying the warrants are not qualified and in which there is no exemption will be unable to exercise their warrants and would either have to sell their warrants in the open market or allow them to expire unexercised. If and when the warrants become redeemable by us, we may exercise our redemption right even if we are unable to qualify the underlying securities for sale under all applicable state securities laws. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for shareholders to resell common stock when they want or at a price they find attractive. We expect that the market price of our common stock will fluctuate. Our common stock price can fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in interest rates and other general economic conditions; • significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors; • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; • news reports relating to trends, concerns, litigation, regulatory changes and other issues in our industry; • geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts; and • relatively low trading volume. If equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock will rely in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. We do not control these analysts. The price of our stock could decline if one or more equity analysts downgrade our stock or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. We do not currently intend to pay dividends, which may limit the return on your investment in us. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 23 Table of Contents 