Risk Factors Investing in our ordinary shares involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the following risk factors, as well as the other information in this annual report, before deciding to invest in our ordinary shares. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be affected adversely by any of these risks. The trading price of our ordinary shares could decline due to any of these risks and you might lose all or part of your investment in our ordinary shares. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Market If we fail to enhance our existing products, develop new and more technologically advanced products or successfully commercialize these products, the results of our operations would suffer. To compete effectively, we must enhance our existing products and introduce new, cost-effective products and features to meet changing customer requirements and evolving industry standards. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology and frequent introductions of new products. We, or our competitors, may announce products that have the potential to shorten the life cycle of, or replace, our products. We have made such announcements in the past and may do so in the future. Such announcements could cause customers not to buy our products or to defer decisions to buy our products. We cannot assure you that products or technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies non-competitive or obsolete. We must design our products to support emerging technologies and features, including personalized programming, targeted advertising, new compression standards, high definition television, or HDTV, distributed networking, dense decoding and the greater use of video-over-internet-protocol, or voice-over-IP. Our products must also meet industry standards in the geographical regions in which we operate. Our future products, if and when fully developed and tested, may not perform as we expect or compete successfully with products developed by our competitors. Further, there can be no assurance that the cost of our future development efforts will not materially increase. Sales of our products are also dependent on the market acceptance of advanced video services. If adoption of advanced services is not as widespread or as rapid as we expect, or if we are unable to develop new products based on emerging technologies on a timely basis, our results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. MPEG-4 Our encoders and decoders do not currently support MPEG-4, a newer compression standard. We are developing an MPEG-4 compatible encoder, which we expect to be available for shipment in the third quarter of 2006. We have not yet begun developing an MPEG-4 compatible decoder. To the extent our targeted customers require MPEG-4 compatibility, we may be unable to successfully market our encoders and decoders until MPEG-4 support can be developed, particularly in the U.S. where there is a growing demand for advanced compression technologies. Developing MPEG-4 support will require significant research and development efforts and license fees. If we are unable to upgrade our products to newer compression technologies in a timely and cost-effective manner, we may not be able to market or sell our products, which would adversely affect our results of operations. 6 VC-1 Although MPEG has evolved as the prevailing standard for compressing digital video in most of our target markets, we cannot assure you that alternative standards will not be adopted. Microsoft has developed a different standard for compressing digital video, called VC-1, which our products do not currently support. Microsoft is currently making efforts to have this standard accepted by the industry. If network operators adopt VC-1, we will need to enhance our products to support this standard, which would be a lengthy and costly process. HDTV While our intelligent video gateway processes HDTV content, and we currently resell third-party HDTV encoders and decoders, the encoders and decoders developed by us do not currently support HDTV. We are currently developing HDTV encoders and decoders, which we expect to be available for shipment towards the end of 2007. To the extent our target customers prefer to purchase HDTV encoders and decoders developed by us rather than third-parties, we may be unable to successfully market these products. Until we develop HDTV encoders and decoders, we will rely on the resale of third-party products which have lower gross margins than internally-developed versions. If we are unable to provide HDTV support in our encoding and decoding products, we may not be able to compete effectively, particularly in the U.S., which would adversely affect our results of operations. Personalized Programming and Targeted Advertising The ability to support personalized programming and targeted advertising are essential features of our intelligent video gateway currently under development. While we have successfully demonstrated these features, we do not expect to ship products which incorporate these features until the second quarter of 2006. If we are unable to successfully introduce these features on a timely basis, our prospective customers may be unwilling to purchase our intelligent video gateway and our competitive position and results of operations would be adversely affected. We only recently introduced our intelligent video gateway, and if we fail in our efforts to sell this product, or if our target customers are unwilling to purchase this product from us, our results of operations would suffer. Most of our revenues to date have been derived from sales of encoders and decoders. We began shipping our intelligent video gateway in the fourth quarter of 2003. We have devoted significant research and development and sales and marketing resources toward this product, and we expect sales of this product to represent a growing portion of our revenues in the future. We lack substantial experience selling this product and we cannot be certain that this product will be accepted. In some cases, our current original equipment manufacturer, or OEM, partners resell comparable video processing products provided by our competitors, so it may be difficult for us to build an OEM channel for our intelligent video gateway. The sale of our intelligent video gateway is a critical component of our growth strategy, and if we are unsuccessful in our efforts to expand this portion of our business, our revenues may not grow, we may need to adjust our growth strategy and our results of operations would suffer. 7 We intend to increase our sales and marketing efforts in the U.S. and to telecom service providers and major cable operators, which may require us to broaden our OEM partnerships. We may not be successful in these activities, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our ability to increase our sales in the U.S. and to telecom service providers and major cable operators depends on our ability to obtain key customers in these markets, and to devote substantial technical, marketing and sales resources to these markets, which have lengthy equipment qualification and sales cycles. We will need to engage distributors who will be able to market and support our products effectively in the telecom and cable markets. Large cable and telecom operators in the U.S. may be reluctant to purchase products from a small, non-U.S. supplier like us. We therefore intend to expand our OEM partnerships, which exposes us to risks, including reduced gross margins. Large annual purchase agreements or contracts with U.S. telecom service providers and major cable operators are not typical. If we are unable to successfully increase our sales in the U.S., or to telecom service providers or major cable operators, or expand our OEM partnerships, our results of operations would suffer. We have a history of losses and may never achieve or maintain profitability. We have incurred losses in each year since our inception, and as of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $33.1 million. Our losses may increase in the future as we expand our research and development activities and increase our manufacturing and sales and marketing capabilities. The future success of our business will depend on our ability to increase product sales, develop additional products and applications, expand our sales force and distribution network and control costs, which we may be unable to do. We may not generate sufficient revenues from product sales or generate sufficient free cash flow in the future to achieve or maintain profitable operations, resulting in the possibility of future capital requirements. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly and may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, causing our share price to decline. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to fluctuate in the future on both an annual and quarterly basis as a result of several factors, many of which are outside of our control. Some of the factors that may cause these fluctuations include: – the timing, size, delivery, installation and revenue recognition of customer orders; – our long and unpredictable sales cycle, which typically lasts approximately 3 to 12 months; – the cost and availability of electronic components; – our ability to enhance our products and market acceptance of our existing and new products; – the potential loss of key OEM partnerships; – our customers' need for local franchise and licensing approvals; and – regulatory changes in the U.S. and other countries. We have no supply agreements with our key suppliers, on whom we depend for essential components for our products. If we are unable to obtain these components we may not be able to meet the demand for our products. We depend on single sources of supply for certain essential components of our products, including video decoder chips, video encoder chips and network processors. We have no long-term supply agreements with any of these suppliers, and cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such components on a timely basis or at acceptable prices, if at all. If we are unable to obtain our key components at acceptable prices and on a timely basis, we may not be able to meet the demand for our products, which would adversely affect our production capability, our reputation and results of operations. 8 Discontinued Components Our key suppliers routinely develop new components and discontinue the manufacturing of older components. While it is a common practice in our industry to provide at least six months notice before discontinuing production of components, our suppliers are not required to give us advance notice of such changes. When one of our suppliers introduces a new component, or ceases to manufacture older components, we must adapt our current line of products to the new component, which may take longer than the advance notice period, if any, received from the supplier. Start-up Company Suppliers Some of our third-party suppliers are start-up companies, and are not financially stable. In the event that the supplier of a key component of our products ceases operations or otherwise ceases to do business with us, it would cause delays as we seek an alternate supplier, and we may not have access to the information necessary to enable another supplier to manufacture the component. Subcontractors in Israel We depend on two subcontractors to assemble our products in Israel. We are restricted by the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor, or OCS, from manufacturing our products outside of Israel without OCS approval, which would result in an increased royalty rate to the OCS, if granted. Any disruption to our sources of manufacturing, or our inability to manufacture our products at a sufficient rate to keep pace with demand from our customers, would have an adverse effect on our business and customer relationships. Our products designed for the U.S. market require adaptation before sale outside of the U.S., which may result in additional development costs and delays in sales outside of the U.S. The U.S. market imposes specific standards on products such as ours, which are different from those applicable in other parts of the world. As a result, we have directed a substantial portion of our recent research and development efforts toward the development of products for the U.S. market. We need to modify certain of these products before we are able to sell them outside of the U.S., which may result in additional development costs and which may delay our ability to introduce new products outside of the U.S. in a timely manner and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business is dependent on the capital spending patterns of network operators, and any decrease or delay in capital spending by them would adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Demand for our products will depend on the magnitude and timing of capital spending by network operators as they construct and upgrade their networks. The ordering patterns of our customers is sporadic, and the capital spending patterns of network operators are dependent on a variety of factors, including: – competitive pressures, including pricing pressures; – consumer demand for new services; – emphasis on generating revenues from existing customers instead of new network construction or upgrades; – evolving industry standards and network architectures; and 9 – completion of major network upgrades, which may have the effect of reducing capital expenditures by our customers. In addition, uncertain and volatile capital markets have depressed the market values of network operators and restricted their access to capital, resulting in delays or the cancellation of certain projects. Financial difficulties among network operators would adversely affect our results of operations. We may not be able to successfully compete with larger competitors which have greater operations, financial, marketing, human and other resources than us. We compete in a highly competitive market. We compete primarily on the basis of the technological merits of our products, cost, support and product availability. Many of our competitors are large companies with significantly greater financial, marketing, human and other resources than us, which may give them competitive advantages over us. Our larger competitors have broader product lines that our target customers may prefer. SBC, one of our targeted telecom customers, recently awarded a large IPTV contract to Scientific-Atlanta which may limit our ability to sell to SBC. Other customers may also award initial contracts to larger suppliers than us. Our revenues and our sale prices may decline significantly if our competitors introduce equivalent or superior products. Scientific-Atlanta recently announced a product similar to our intelligent video gateway. We are currently unable to assess the potential impact this new product may have on our business, or our relationship with Scientific-Atlanta. In addition, many of our competitors manufacture their products in countries where the cost of production is significantly lower than in Israel, where we produce most of our products, thus decreasing their cost and thereby enabling them to offer competitive lower prices for their products. We rely on third-parties to distribute and market the majority of our products, and our financial performance may be adversely affected if we cannot maintain effective distributor relationships. Some of our distributors may sell products that compete with our products, or may cease selling our products as we increase our direct sales efforts. We sell a significant portion of our products through third-party distributors, including resellers, system integrators and agents, and we expect OEM sales to represent a growing portion of our revenues. Our distributors and OEMs may not be successful in marketing and selling our products in the future and may terminate their relationships with us upon short notice with little or no penalty. We may not be able to maintain an effective distributor or OEM network, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Some of our distributors have sold in the past, and may sell in the future, products that compete with our products. In addition, we are increasing efforts to sell our products directly to larger cable and telecom operators. Some of these operators are current or target customers of our OEMs, and our OEMs may decide to purchase products from other manufacturers who do not compete directly with them. The loss of one or more of our major distributors or OEM partners, especially in a key market, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Some of the technology we use is licensed from third-parties and integrated into our products. If our licensors terminate our license agreements, we may be forced to stop selling some of our products, and seek other alternatives, which could harm our business. Our products are based on a combination of our core technology and licenses we obtain from third-parties. For example, the software that we use in our products to compress video into an MPEG format is licensed to us by a third-party. While some of our license agreements are perpetual, others are terminable within a short period. If any of our licensors decides to terminate the license agreement we have with such licensor, we may be forced to stop selling some of our products, and seek other alternatives, which could harm our business and results of operations. 10 A substantial majority of our sales and substantially all of our other activities occur outside the U.S. We are subject to risks associated with operating in a wide variety of countries, which may negatively affect our operating results. Sales to customers outside the U.S. for 2003, 2004 and 2005 represented 92.0%, 88.4%, and 85.6% of our revenues, respectively. We expect that non-U.S. sales will continue to represent a major portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Substantially all of our research and development and contract manufacturing occurs in Israel. Our operations, the operations of our contract manufacturers and our sales in non-U.S. markets, are subject to a number of risks, including: – longer payment cycles; – potentially weak protection of intellectual property rights in certain countries; – the burden of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws, treaties and technical standards; – import and export license requirements, tariffs, taxes and other trade barriers; and – political and economic changes and instability. In 2005, most of our revenues were denominated in U.S. dollars, and we expect that a significant portion of our revenues will continue to be denominated in U.S. dollars, with a smaller portion denominated in Euros and other currencies. Our expenses to date have been incurred, in almost equal parts, in U.S. dollars or currencies linked to the U.S. dollar, and in New Israeli Shekels, or NIS. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could cause fluctuations in our revenues, accounts receivable, accounts payable and other monetary assets and liabilities. We engage in currency hedging from time to time to reduce the risks associated with fluctuations in currency exchange rates. If we do not successfully engage in hedging transactions, our results of operations may suffer. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates also could cause our products to become relatively more expensive to customers in a particular country, leading to a reduction in sales in that country, which could adversely impact our business and results of operations. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed. Our success and ability to compete depend upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, and on confidentiality and invention assignment agreements in order to protect our intellectual property rights. Our technology is currently covered by two issued patents in the U.S. (U.S. Patent 6,784,811, 6,961,377), and by several additional patent applications pending in the U.S. The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive, and there can be no assurance that our existing or future patent applications will result in patents being issued, or that our existing patents, or any patents which may be issued as a result of existing or future applications, will provide meaningful protection or commercial advantage to us. Any issued patents may be challenged, invalidated or legally circumvented by third-parties. We cannot be certain that our patents will be upheld as valid, be enforceable or prevent the development of competitive products. Moreover, we operate, sell and market our products in some countries, including China, with potentially weak protection of intellectual property rights. Consequently, our competitors could develop, manufacture and sell products that directly compete with our products, which could decrease our revenues and gross margins. In addition, competitors could purchase one of our systems and attempt to replicate some or all of the competitive advantages we derive from our development efforts, design around our protected technology or develop their own competitive technologies that fall outside of our intellectual property rights. If our intellectual property is not adequately protected against competitors’ products and methods, our competitive position could be adversely affected, as could our results of operations. 11 We have also developed technical knowledge, which, although not patented, we consider to be significant in enabling us to compete. However, the proprietary nature of such knowledge may be difficult to protect. We generally enter into agreements with our employees and consultants who are involved in our research and development activities or who have access to any of our confidential information prohibiting these individuals from disclosing any confidential information or trade secrets. We cannot assure you that these agreements will provide meaningful protection of our proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of this information, nor in the event of a competing claim to this technology by a previous employer of any of our employees or consultants. Furthermore, in the absence of patent protection, we may be exposed to competitors who independently develop equivalent technology or gain access to our knowledge. Third-party claims of infringement could require us to redesign our products, seek licenses or engage in future, costly intellectual property litigation, which could impact our future business and financial performance. Claims by competitors and other third-parties that our products allegedly infringe upon the patent rights of others could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our industry is characterized by frequent and substantial intellectual property litigation. Intellectual property litigation is complex and expensive, and the outcome of this type of litigation is difficult to predict. Any future litigation, regardless of outcome, could result in substantial expense and significant diversion of the efforts of our management and technical personnel. An adverse determination in any such proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities or require us to seek licenses from third-parties or pay royalties that may be substantial. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that necessary licenses would be available on satisfactory terms, or at all. Accordingly, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing or selling certain of our products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may become involved in litigation to protect the trademark rights associated with our name or the names of our products. We do not have a trademark registration or application for our company name. We do not know whether others will assert that our name infringes upon their trademark rights. In addition, names we choose for our products may be claimed to infringe upon names held by others. If we need to change the name of our company or products, we may experience a loss in goodwill associated with our brand name, customer confusion and a loss of revenues. We have a limited backlog of orders and must maintain sufficient inventory levels to meet anticipated demand. This may result in write-offs of obsolete inventory, which could adversely affect our financial performance. The timing and volume of orders for our products are difficult to forecast, as a substantial portion of our sales are booked and shipped in the same quarter pursuant to purchase orders. We generally do not have long-term supply agreements with our customers, and we have a limited backlog of orders for our products and must maintain or have available sufficient inventory levels to satisfy anticipated demand on a timely basis. Maintaining sufficient inventory levels to ensure prompt delivery of our products increases the risk of inventory obsolescence and associated write-offs, which could harm our financial performance. In addition, our limited backlog makes accurately forecasting inventory and other expenditures difficult. Changes in telecommunications regulations could harm our prospects and future revenues. Global efforts to deregulate the telecommunications industry have resulted in increased levels of competition among service providers and a rapidly-evolving industry landscape. In the U.S. for example, the Telecommunications Act of 1996 generally permitted service operators to enter each others’ markets and to provide a variety of voice, video and data services. Changes in telecommunications regulations in the U.S. and other countries could limit the construction or expansion of our customers’ networks and affect the sales of our products. Increased regulation of our customers’ service offerings could limit their capital equipment investments and consequently the purchases of our products. Changes in regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 12 Business combinations and other financial restructurings by network operators or our competitors could adversely affect our business. Business combinations and other restructurings in our industry are common, such as the acquisition of AT&T Broadband by Comcast in 2002, the acquisition by The News Corporation in December 2003 of an indirect controlling interest in Hughes Electronics, the parent company of DIRECTV, the recent privatization of Cox Communications, the planned sale of Adelphia Communications out of bankruptcy and the proposed sale of Cablevision’s VOOM satellite assets to Echostar. Further business combinations may occur in our industry, which may reduce the number of network operators and decrease capital spending in our industry, which could reduce demand for our products and adversely affect our results of operations. Certain of our customers have accumulated significant levels of debt and have announced reorganizations and financial restructurings, including bankruptcy filings, during recent years. Further business combinations and restructurings may occur again in the future, which may adversely impact our customers’ purchases of new equipment. The communications equipment industry is characterized by frequent mergers and acquisitions. An acquisition of one of our competitors, or merger between our competitors, could harm our competitive position or cause our target customers to delay purchases of our products while they assess the impact of the combination. If a larger company with more resources were to acquire a competitor of ours, they may invest additional resources in developing, marketing and supporting competitive products, which would negatively impact our business and results of operations. We are highly dependent on key members of our executive team, and the failure to attract and retain key personnel could adversely affect our business. We are highly dependent on the members of our executive management team and technical staff, including, in particular, David Mahlab, our Chief Executive Officer, who founded Scopus and who has directed our business since inception, and Yaron Simler, our President, who only recently joined our company and is important to our U.S. operations and expansion strategy. Pursuant to a transition plan approved by our board of directors, on January 1, 2007. Mr. Gat will step down of his position as the chairman of our board of directors, and will be replaced by Mr. David Mahlab, who will be appointed as the active chairman. Yoel Gat will continue to serve as a consultant and as a director in the board of directors and will be appointed to another position such as a vice chairman of our board of directors. On January 1, 2007, Dr. Simler will replace Mr. David Mahlab as our chief executive officer, and become president and chief executive officer. After the transition, the respective compensation package paid to each of Dr. Simler, Mr. Mahlab and Mr. Gat will remain unchanged. We do not currently carry “key man” insurance with respect to either Mr. Mahlab or Dr. Simler. We depend on our management’s and technical staff’s experience and familiarity with our technology to execute our business strategy. We have entered into employment agreements with both Mr. Mahlab and Dr. Simler pursuant to which they have agreed not to engage in certain activities that directly compete with us upon their termination of employment. However, these prohibitions against Mr. Mahlab and Dr. Simler’s competitive activities are limited to four months and one year, respectively, following their termination of employment. Our employment agreement with Mr. Mahlab requires a one-year notice of termination and that he be entitled to use any of his accrued vacation. Our success will also depend in large part on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled management and technical personnel. The departure or other loss of any member of our executive management team or technical staff could harm our ability to effectively develop and market our products. Competition for certain employees, particularly development engineers, is intense. We may be unable to continue to attract and retain sufficient numbers of highly skilled employees. If we are unable to attract and retain additional qualified and highly skilled employees our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. 13 We are exposed to additional costs and risks associated with complying with increasing and new regulation of corporate governance and disclosure standards. As a public company, we are spending an increased amount of management time and resources to comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and Nasdaq Stock Market rules. Particularly, as a foreign private issuer, we may need to comply with the provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act no later than the filing of our annual report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006. Section 404 requires management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting, and attestation of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting by management and our independent registered public accounting firm in connection with the filing of our annual report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006, and with each subsequently filed annual report on Form 20-F. As part of this process, we will need to document and test our internal control systems and procedures and make improvements in order for us to comply with the requirements of Section 404. This process will require us to hire additional personnel and outside advisory services and will result in significant additional accounting and legal expenses. We may have difficulty managing our growth, which could limit our ability to increase sales and cash flow. We have experienced significant growth in our operations in recent years, with our annual revenues increasing from $20.1 million in 2000 to $44.8 million in 2005. During the next two years, we expect to expand our research and development, sales and marketing and manufacturing activities, including our activities in the U.S. Our growth has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management, as well as our financial and operational resources, as required to: – manage a larger organization; – implement appropriate operational and financial systems; – expand our distribution and manufacturing capacity; and – expand our sales and marketing infrastructure and capabilities. If we cannot grow and manage our business appropriately, we may not be able to execute our business strategies and our business and financial results would suffer. We may seek to expand our business through acquisitions that could result in a diversion of resources and additional expenses, which could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. We may, in the future, pursue acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies, or establish joint venture arrangements to expand our business. The negotiation of potential acquisitions or joint ventures, as well as the integration of an acquired or jointly developed business, technology, service or products could divert management’s time as well as our resources, and disrupt our operations and cause our business to suffer. We have not acquired a business in the past, and we may be unable to successfully integrate acquired businesses or joint ventures with our operations. Future acquisitions may also require additional capital, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all, or which may dilute the interests of our shareholders. 14 We are subject to regulation by the United States Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, and other foreign governmental and qualification requirements by non-governmental agencies and our customers. If we are unable to obtain and maintain regulatory qualifications or approvals for our products and our future applications and products, our business may be adversely affected. Our products are sold worldwide. The regulatory requirements in various countries vary widely, and complying with such regulatory requirements can be an expensive and time-consuming process. In addition, different network operators and national non-governmental standards organizations in the U.S. and worldwide impose varying standards and qualification requirements. While our products have been approved in certain countries, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain these regulatory or industry qualifications, clearances or approvals in all the countries in which we operate, or that we will be able to obtain such qualifications, clearances or approvals in new foreign markets or for new products. We may incur significant costs in attempting to maintain or obtain qualifications, clearances or approvals. If we do not comply with the applicable regulatory requirements in each of the jurisdictions in which our products are sold, we may be subject to regulatory enforcement actions which could require us to, among other things, cease selling our products. Furthermore, if our products fail to meet the standards and qualification requirements imposed by network operators or non-governmental standards organizations, we may not be able to successfully market and sell our products. If any of these events were to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations would suffer. We may be materially affected by the WEEE and RoHS directives. The European Union has adopted the 2002/96/EC Directive on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment, or WEEE directive, which regulates the collection, recovery and recycling of waste from electrical and electronic products, and the 2002/95/EC Directive on Restrictions on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment, or RoHS directive, which bans the use of certain hazardous materials including lead, mercury, cadmium, chromium, and halogenated flame-retardants. Our products fall under the scope of both directives as electrical and electronic equipment. Certain of our key components use lead. Under WEEE, we will be responsible for financing operations for the collection, treatment, disposal and recycling of past and future products sold in the European Union. Implementation of these directives is carried out at the national level by each of the European Union Member States. Because the specific national requirements have not yet been finalized in all Member States, we are presently unable to reasonably estimate the amount of any costs that may be necessary in order to comply with WEEE. We cannot assure you that compliance with WEEE and RoHS will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to this our Ordinary Shares Our ordinary shares have only been traded for a short period and our share price may be volatile. Our ordinary shares commenced trading in December 2005, there has been no public market for our ordinary shares prior to that. An active public trading market may not develop or, if developed, may not be sustained. The lack of a trading market may result in the loss of research coverage, if any, provided by securities analysts, or the loss of, or failure to secure, coverage by securities analysts which may negatively impact the public trading market for our ordinary shares. The market price of our ordinary shares would be affected by a number of factors, including changes in the estimates of our operating results or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that elect to follow our ordinary shares, and market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and the economy as a whole. If our future quarterly results or guidance for future periods are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of our ordinary shares would likely decline. Share price fluctuations may be exaggerated if the trading volume of our ordinary shares is low. 15 Our major shareholders, officers, directors and affiliated entities own a majority of our ordinary shares and control us. Our major shareholders, executive officers, directors and entities affiliated with them, in the aggregate, will beneficially own approximately 59.8% of our outstanding ordinary shares (including shares subject to options granted to such shareholders that are currently exercisable or exercisable within 60 days of March 31, 2006). These shareholders, if acting together, would be able to control all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. Future sales of our ordinary shares could reduce our share price. We have 13,103,018 ordinary shares outstanding. We intend to file a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act to register 6,028,017 ordinary shares issued or issuable under our shares option plans. As of December 31, 2005, options to purchase 3,515,066 ordinary shares were issued and outstanding, of which options to purchase 2,084,435 ordinary shares had vested and had not been exercised. We have granted to a number of our shareholders, who together own a total of approximately 8,462,888 ordinary shares, registration rights with respect to their ordinary shares or ordinary shares underlying other securities. Sales by shareholders of substantial amounts of our ordinary shares, or the perception that these sales may occur in the future, could materially and adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. In addition, a substantial number of shares held by our current shareholders or issuable upon exercise of options will be eligible for sale in the public market, and could be sold pursuant to registration under the Securities Act or an exemption from registration. Our executive officers, directors, shareholders and option holders have agreed not to sell an aggregate of approximately 12,110,602 shares owned by them for a period of 180 days following December 14, 2005. As these restrictions on resale end, the market price of our ordinary shares could drop significantly if the holders of these restricted shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. Our U.S. investors could suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a Passive Foreign Investment Company. If, for any taxable year, our passive income, or our assets that produce passive income, exceed levels provided by U.S. law in relation to our non-passive income or our non-passive assets, respectively, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Based upon a projection of our income and assets, determined by reference to the expected market value of our shares when issued, and assuming that we are entitled to value our intangible assets with reference to the market value of our shares, and our intended use of the proceeds of this offering, we do not believe that we will be a passive foreign investment company for our current taxable year. However, because passive foreign investment company status is based on our income and assets for the entire taxable year, it is not possible to determine whether we will have become a passive foreign investment company for the current taxable year until after the close of the year. Moreover, we must annually determine our passive foreign investment company status based on tests which are factual in nature, and we are therefore unable to determine whether we will become a passive foreign investment company in the future. While we intend to manage our business to avoid passive foreign investment company status, to the extent consistent with our other business goals, we cannot predict whether our business plans will allow us to avoid passive foreign investment company status or whether our business plans will change in a manner that affects our passive foreign investment company status determination. In addition, because the market price of our ordinary shares is likely to fluctuate after this offering, and our market price may affect the determination of whether we will be considered a passive foreign investment company, we cannot assure you that we will not be considered a passive foreign investment company for any taxable year. Characterization as a passive foreign investment company could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to our shareholders. U.S. shareholders should consult with their own U.S. tax advisors with respect to the U.S. tax consequences of investing in our ordinary shares. For a discussion of how we might be characterized as a passive foreign investment company and related tax consequences, see “Item 10E. U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences – Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations.” 16 Risks Related to Our Operations in Israel Security, political and economic instability in Israel may impede our ability to operate and harm our financial results. Our principal executive offices, research and development facilities and contract manufacturer are located in Israel. Accordingly, security, political and economic conditions in Israel may directly affect our business. Over the past several decades, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Any hostilities involving Israel, or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, could adversely affect our operations. Since October 2000, terrorist violence in Israel has increased significantly and negotiations between Israel and Palestinian authorities have occurred only intermittently. In addition, despite the progress towards peace between Israel, its Arab neighbors and the Palestinians, some countries, principally those in the Middle East as well as Malaysia and Indonesia, and some companies and organizations in those countries, continue to participate in a boycott of Israeli firms. Increased hostilities, future armed conflicts, political developments in other states in the region, or continued or increased terrorism could disrupt our operations and adversely affect the willingness of customers outside Israel to buy our products, which could increase our costs and adversely affect the expansion of our business and our results of operations. Our results of operations could be negatively affected by the obligations of our personnel to perform military service in Israel. All male and a portion of female adult Israeli citizens under the age of approximately 48, unless exempt, are obligated to perform military service duty annually for a period of up to approximately 36 days. Additionally, they can be called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. Should the hostilities in the region escalate, some of our executive officers, directors and employees could be called to active military duty, possibly resulting in interruptions in our sales and development efforts and other adverse impacts on our business and operations which we can not currently assess. You may have difficulties enforcing a U.S. judgment against us, our executive officers or our directors, asserting U.S. securities laws claims in Israel or serving process on our executive officers and directors and the Israeli experts named in this annual report. The majority of our executive officers and directors, and the Israeli experts named in this prospectus are located in Israel, and a majority of our assets, and the assets of these persons, are located in Israel. Therefore, a judgment obtained against us or any of them in the U.S., including one based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be collectible in the U.S. and may not be enforced by an Israeli court. Further, if a foreign judgment is enforced by an Israeli court, it generally will be payable in Israeli currency. It also may be difficult for you to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. The government grants we have received for research and development expenditures limit our ability to manufacture products and transfer technologies outside of Israel and require us to satisfy specified conditions. If we fail to satisfy these conditions, we may be required to refund grants previously received together with interest and penalties, and may be subject to criminal charges. Our research and development efforts have been financed, in part, through grants from the OCS. We, therefore, must comply with the requirements of the Israeli Law for the Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development, 1984 and related regulations, or the Research Law. In recent years, the government of Israel has accelerated the rate of repayment of OCS grants and may further accelerate them in the future. In addition, if we fail to comply with any of the requirements imposed by the OCS, such as change of control notices and annual reporting requirements, we may be required to refund any grants previously received together with interest and penalties, and a person transferring OCS backed technology may be subject to criminal charges and up to three years in prison. 17 While, under OCS rules, we may sell final electronic products which are based on technology developed with OCS funding worldwide without violating OCS transfer restrictions, the technology itself may not be transferred and any transfer of technology generally requires the approval of an OCS committee. A transfer for the purpose of OCS rules, means an actual sale of the technology, any exclusive license to develop, market, and manufacture products resulting from the technology or any other transaction which in essence constitutes a transfer of the technology. There is no assurance that we will receive the required approvals should we wish to transfer this technology in the future. These restrictions may impair our ability to sell our technology assets or to outsource manufacturing outside of Israel, and the restrictions continue to apply even after we have repaid the full amount of royalties payable for the grants. In addition, the restrictions may impair our ability to consummate a merger or similar transaction in which the surviving entity is not an Israeli company. The tax benefits available to us under Israeli law require us to meet several conditions, including making specified investments in property and equipment, and financing a percentage of investments with share capital, and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our taxes. We have not yet generated any taxable income and have therefore not taken advantage of tax exemptions and reductions resulting from the “Approved Enterprise” status of our facilities in Israel. To be eligible for these tax benefits, we must meet conditions, including making specified investments in property and equipment, and financing a percentage of investments with share capital. If we fail to meet these conditions in the future, the tax benefits would be canceled and we could be required to refund any tax benefits we might already have received. These tax benefits may not be continued in the future at their current levels, or at any level. In recent years, the Israeli government has reduced the benefits available and has indicated that it may further reduce or eliminate some of these benefits in the future. The termination or reduction of these benefits may increase our income tax expense in the future. Additionally, if we increase our activities outside of Israel, for example, through acquisitions, our increased activities generally will not be eligible for inclusion in Israeli tax benefit programs. See “Israeli Taxation – Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959” for more information about these programs. Provisions of our articles of association, other corporate documents and Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of us, which could prevent a change of control and negatively impact our share price. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. Moreover, as noted above, the transfer of our technology (including by acquisition) is subject to certain restrictions and approvals of the OCS, which provided grants for the development of our technology. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to some of our shareholders. These provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of our company, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. 18 Under current U.S. and Israeli law, we may not be able to enforce covenants not to compete and therefore may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees. We have entered into non-competition agreements with the majority of our professional employees. These agreements prohibit our employees, if they cease working for us, from competing directly with us or working for our competitors for a limited period of time. Under current U.S. and Israeli law, we may be unable to enforce these agreements, in whole or in part, and it may be difficult for us to restrict our competitors from gaining the expertise our former employees gained while working for us. For example, Israeli courts have recently required employers seeking to enforce non-competition undertakings of a former employee to demonstrate that the competitive activities of the former employee will harm one of a limited number of material interests of the employer which have been recognized by the courts, such as the secrecy of a company’s confidential commercial information or its intellectual property. If we cannot demonstrate that material harm would be caused to us, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of our former employees. 