D. Risk Factors We wish to caution the readers that the following important factors, and those important factors described in other reports submitted to, or filed with, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, among other factors, could affect our actual results and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. In particular, as we are a non-U.S. company, there are risks associated with investing in ADSs that are not typical with investments in shares of U.S. companies. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations would likely suffer. In such case, the trading price of our ADSs could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. 4 Risks Related to Our Company We derive substantially all of our revenues from our Systems-on-a-Chip, or SoCs, for tablets and portable media players, and we cannot be sure that sales of these products will be successful. We derive substantially all of our revenues from the sales of our SoCs for tablets and portable media player applications. We cannot be sure that our SoCs will continue to be successful in the markets in which we compete, or those applications will continue to remain popular with retail customers. Meanwhile, we attempt to exploit new application markets to bring us additional revenues. We continuously evaluate expenditures for planned product developments and choose among alternatives based upon our expectations of future market trends, which are difficult to predict. For example, the migration and adoption of smart phones have resulted in the increasing popularity of embedding portable media player functionality directly into smart phones. In addition, the rapid growth of smart phones and tablets has changed the market of higher end portable media players, so we are in the process of consolidating our SoCs for portable media players in mainstream and entry-level segments, and have spent most of our resources to accelerate the addition of SoCs for tablets into our product portfolio in 2012, sales of which generated almost 42% of our 2013 revenues. However, we may not be able to compete with providers of SoCs for smart phones that combine mobile phone and portable media player functionality into one SoC if such providers expand their product portfolio and compete with us in our target markets. We may also not be able to develop and introduce new or enhanced products in a timely and cost-effective manner, keep pace with market trends, or be sure that our new products will generate significant revenues. The development of our SoCs and total solutions is highly complex, and successful product development and market acceptance of our products depend on a number of factors, including: ·our accurate prediction of the changing requirements of our customers; ·our timely completion and introduction of new designs; ·the availability of third-party manufacturing, assembly, and testing capacity; ·the ability of our contract foundries to achieve high manufacturing yields for our products; ·the quality, price, performance, power efficiency and size of our products relative to our competitors; ·our management of effective sales channels; ·our customer service capabilities and responsiveness; ·the success of our relationships with existing and potential customers; and ·changes in industry standards and trends. 5 The selling prices of existing products tend to decline over time, and if we are unable to develop successful new products in a timely manner, our operating results and competitive position could be harmed. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, the selling prices of existing products tend to decline significantly over the life of the product. If we are unable to offset reductions in the selling prices of our products by introducing new products at higher prices or by reducing our costs, our revenues, gross margins and operating results will be adversely affected. We must continuously develop new SoCs or other products and enhancements for existing SoCs to keep pace with evolving industry standards and rapidly changing customer requirements. We may not have the financial resources necessary to fund future innovation. Even if we have sufficient financial resources, if our future innovation produces technology that is behind that of our competitors, we may lose customers. Similarly, if our new products are ahead of the current technological standards in our industry, our customers may be unwilling to invest in developing consumer electronics products that can utilize our products, or purchase our SoCs, until the consumer electronics market is ready to accept them. Further, we may be required to develop products that utilize technologies with which our engineers are not familiar. Our efforts to develop in-house capability to work with these technologies or to acquire such expertise through acquisitions or investments in businesses may not be successful. If we are unable to successfully define, develop and introduce competitive new SoCs or other products, we may not be able to compete successfully. In addition, if we, or our customers, are unable to manage product transitions, our business and results of operations would be negatively affected. Our failure to manage adequately the fluctuation in our growth and expansion may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Fluctuations in our growth and expansion have presented, and may continue to present, a significant challenge to our management and administrative systems and resources and, as a result, to our results of operations and financial condition. Our future success will depend on, among other things, our ability to: ·effectively maintain and service our existing customer relationships while developing new value-added distributor, contract manufacturer and brand owner customers; · continue training, motivating and retaining our existing employees and attract and integrate new technical, engineering and sales and marketing employees; · identify and attract new management personnel to our company as we continue to expand; · protect our intellectual property effectively; · integrate new businesses, technologies, services and products that we acquire by way of acquisitions or investments into our operations; 6 · effectively manage our capital expenditures and working capital requirements; · maintain and further improve our operational, financial, accounting and other internal systems and controls; and · maintain adequate controls and procedures to ensure that our periodic public disclosure under applicable laws, including U.S. securities laws, is complete and accurate. Because of the lengthy product development periods for our products and the headcount driven nature of a significant portion of our expenses, we may incur substantial expenses before we earn associated revenues and may not ultimately achieve our forecasted sales for our products. It may take nine to eighteen months for us to design, develop and commence production of our products, and commercial production of consumer end-products that use our SoCs may take an additional two to six months. Product development cycles for our products are lengthy for a number of reasons: · our customers usually complete an in-depth technical evaluation of our products before they place a purchase order; · the commercial adoption of our products by value-added distributors, contract manufacturers and brand owners is typically limited during the initial release of their new products while they evaluate product performance and consumer demand; · new product introductions often center around key trade shows or periods of time before the commencement of major sales seasons and failure to deliver a product prior to such events or design-in windows may seriously delay or cancel introduction of a product; and · the development and commercial introduction of products incorporating new technology frequently are delayed or canceled. Because most of our expenses are associated with our headcount, license of intellectual property or incurred in advance of anticipated sales, we may not be able to decrease our expenses in a timely manner to offset any shortfall in sales. If our growth does not materialize, our operating results would be adversely impacted. As a result of the time it takes to begin commercial production and sales of a new product, the fact that the market demand for end products that incorporate our products may have changed by the time we complete our product development process and the fact that a significant portion of our operating expenses are driven primarily by personnel compensation or are incurred in advance of anticipated sales, we may incur substantial expenses in developing new products before we earn associated revenues. These factors could cause us to miss the sales targets we set for products when we commenced development activities, and we may not be able to decrease our operating expenses in a timely manner to offset additional short falls in sales, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 7 We currently rely on third-party contractors to manufacture almost all of our mass-produced SoC products; any event that prevents these foundries from producing our products, or our failure to successfully manage our relationship with these foundries, could damage our relationships with our customers, decrease our sales, and limit our growth. We do not own or operate a semiconductor fabrication facility. Instead we rely on third-parties to manufacture our semiconductors. Presently, He Jian Technology Company, or He Jian, and United Microelectronics Corporation, or UMC, manufacture almost all of our semiconductors. As a result, if He Jian and UMC were to experience any catastrophic or other event that caused it to be unable to conduct manufacturing operations, or otherwise choose to discontinue manufacturing our products, it could have a significant adverse impact on our ability to sell our products. While we have in the past utilized, and continue to maintain relationships with, other contract foundries to have access to alternative manufacturing capabilities, we cannot be sure that these other contract foundries would be willing or have the capacity to produce our products. Even if such other foundries were willing to produce semiconductors for us, they may be unable to provide us with the same committed capacity, or be unable to manufacture our semiconductors with the same yield rate, as we currently have with He Jian and UMC. As a result, we depend significantly on maintaining a strong relationship with He Jian and UMC, and these two companies’ continued ability to manufacture our semiconductor products, to maintain our revenues and customer relationships. We provide He Jian and UMC with monthly rolling forecasts of our production requirements; however, the ability of them to provide silicon wafers to us is limited by their available capacity. Moreover, the price of our silicon wafers fluctuates based on changes in available industry capacity. We do not have a long term supply contract with these two companies or any other contract foundry. Therefore, they could choose to prioritize capacity for other customers, reduce or eliminate deliveries to us on short notice or increase the prices they charge us. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that these two companies or any other contract foundry will allocate sufficient capacity to satisfy our requirements. If we are unable to obtain foundry capacity as required, we may experience delays in our ability to deliver our products, which would harm our relationships with our existing customers and result in decreased sales. There are additional risks associated with our reliance on third-party contractors, including: · their inability to increase production and achieve acceptable yields on a timely basis; · their production shutdown due to earthquake, power shortage, fires or storms; · reduced control over delivery schedules and product quality; · increased exposure to potential misappropriation of our intellectual property; 8 · limited warranties on wafers or products supplied to us; · shortages of materials that foundries use to manufacture our products; · labor shortages or labor strikes; and · actions taken by our third-party contractors that breach our agreements. We currently rely on third-party contractors to package almost all, and to test a portion of, our mass-produced SoC products; the loss of the services of our independent testing and packaging vendors could significantly disrupt our shipments, harm our customer relationships and reduce our sales. We use a number of different independent vendors to carry out testing and packaging functions, including Tian Shui Hua Tian Technology, Siliconware Technology, Nantong Fujitsu Microelectronics and Shen Zhen Hua Yu Semiconductor. As a result, we do not directly control our product delivery schedules or quality assurance and control. These vendors may also test and package products for other companies, including our competitors. We do not have long-term agreements with independent testing and packaging vendors that guarantee us access to capacity. We typically obtain services from our vendors on an order-by-order basis. Since we do not have long-term agreements with the independent testing and packaging vendors that we use, they may give priority to orders from other customers when demand for their service is high. If any of our vendors experiences capacity constraints or financial difficulties, raises its prices, suffers any damage to its facilities, gets acquired and restructures its business, or terminates its relationship with us, or if there is any other disruption of testing and packaging capacity, we may have to seek alternative services, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or which may expose us to risks associated with qualifying new vendors. We currently estimate that it would take us six to nine months to locate and qualify a new testing and packaging vendor. Because of the amount of time that it takes us to qualify third-party testing and packaging vendors, we could experience significant delays in product shipments if we are required to find alternative vendors on short notice. In addition, we may be required to pay higher testing and packaging costs. Any problems that we may encounter with the delivery or quality of our products could damage our reputation, cause us to lose customers, and adversely affect our business and financial results. Our business may be severely disrupted if we lose the services of our key executives and employees or fail to add new senior and mid-level managers to our management. Our future success is heavily dependent upon the continued service of our board of directors and key executives. Our future success is also dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified senior and mid-level managers to our management team. If one or more of our key executives and employees are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to easily replace them, and our business may be severely disrupted. In addition, if any of these key executives or employees joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we could lose customers, suppliers and know-how, which may lead to a significant adverse impact on our business, and cause us to incur additional expenses to recruit and train personnel. Currently, we do not maintain life insurance for any of our key executives. 9 We also rely on a number of key technology and engineering staff for the operation of our company. Given the intense competition for the services of these personnel in the semiconductor industry, the risk of key technology and engineering staff leaving our company is high. In addition, we expect demand for skilled and experienced technology and engineering personnel in China to increase in the future as new semiconductor fabless design and other similar high technology businesses are established there. If we lose the services of key members of our technology and engineering staff, it could be difficult to locate, hire and integrate new staff with comparable semiconductor design experience and educational background. Our inability to retain our existing technology and engineering personnel, or to timely attract, assimilate and retain new qualified personnel in the future, could adversely affect our operations and delay or restrict the growth of our business. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller process geometry technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. We have different kinds of SoCs for tablets and portable media players and currently most of these SoCs are utilizing the processing technologies ranging from 0.18 micro to 55 nanometer. We continue to focus our efforts on transitioning our SoCs to smaller process geometry technologies in order to achieve better performance at low cost. This transition requires us to redesign certain of our products and will require our contract foundries to modify the manufacturing processes they use to produce our products. In addition, we will incur significant engineering costs and the attention of our engineering personnel will be diverted from other product development efforts during this transition. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties in shifting to smaller process geometry technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in periods of reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller micron process geometry. In addition, we will depend on our contract foundries to transition to smaller process geometries successfully. Our contract foundries may not be able to effectively manage this transition. If our contract foundries or we experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, we could experience reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses, all of which could harm our relationships with our customers and our results of operations. As smaller process geometries become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third-party intellectual property, into our products. However, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, or at all. Further, we cannot be sure that integrating greater functionality into a SoC will result in a corresponding increase in selling price. 10 Because our customers are able to change or cancel orders on relatively short notice, we could unexpectedly lose anticipated sales. The lengthy product development periods for our products make forecasting the volume and timing of orders difficult. In addition, the delays inherent in lengthy product development periods raise additional risks that customers may cancel or change their orders. Because industry practice allows contract manufacturers and brand owners to reschedule or cancel orders on relatively short notice, backlog and customer forecasts are not always good indicators of our future sales. If customers reduce or cancel their orders, it could result in the loss of anticipated sales without allowing us sufficient time to reduce our inventory and operating expenses. Further, because our sales are made by means of standard purchase orders rather than long term contracts, our customers may not continue to purchase our products at current levels, or at all. Our reliance on value-added distributors for the sale of a substantial portion of our products subjects us to a number of risks. Many of our key customers are value-added distributors, who integrate our products into a system platform and sell that system platform to contract manufacturers, although we also sell some of our products directly to contract manufacturers. Growth in our business will depend on our ability to maintain and expand our relationships with both value-added distributor customers and contract manufacturer customers. Our reliance on our value-added distributor customers subjects us to a number of risks. For example, if we were to lose a significant value-added distributor as a customer, our financial performance could be adversely affected in the short term before we were able to replace this distributor. In addition, some of our value-added distributor customers may also carry and sell product lines that are competitive with ours. As these customers are not required to maintain a specified minimum level of purchases from us, we cannot be sure that they will prioritize selling our products. As we continue to expand our sales capabilities, we will also need to manage the potential conflicts that may arise between us and our value-added distributor customers. Further, we rely on our value-added distributor customers to accurately and timely report to us their shipment forecasts and resale activity and to provide certain engineering support services to the brand owners who market and distribute the end products to consumers. Our inability to obtain accurate and timely reports and to successfully manage these relationships could adversely affect our business and financial results. Failure to collect, or delayed collection of, trade receivables could affect our liquidity. In order to promote our sales, we may be required to extend payment terms, provide additional financing or modify payment terms for some customers, in some cases without requiring collateral. In addition, payments may not be collected until a certain period of time after our customers receive their products. We perform ongoing evaluation of our customers’ financial conditions and generally experience little difficulty collecting their payments. However, if the financial condition of our customers deteriorates and results in an impairment of their ability to make timely payments, more allowance for doubtful accounts may be required. Furthermore, if any of our customers becomes insolvent or commences bankruptcy or similar proceedings, our receivables from such customers may become uncollectible, which may lead to additional bad debt expenses for us and may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. 11 If our products are not manufactured with satisfactory yields or quality, our sales could decrease, and our relationships with our customers and our reputation may be harmed. Due to the complexity of SoC design and manufacturing process, even minor deviations in the semiconductor manufacturing process can cause substantial decreases in yields, and in some cases, cause production to be suspended. We establish a minimum yield with our foundries at the time our products are qualified. If actual yield at the foundry is below the minimum, the foundry assumes the cost of the wafers, and if actual yield is above the minimum, we assume the cost. However, the fact that a contract foundry is achieving minimum yields on a product does not mean that the yield is sufficient to allow us to maintain or increase our profits on that product. Further, even though a contract foundry is responsible for yield losses we incur on a particular shipment of SoCs, these yield losses could cause us to delay shipments to our customers and damage our relationship with them. The manufacturing yields for our new products tend to be lower initially and increase as the contract foundry achieves full production. Our product pricing is based on the assumption that increases in manufacturing yields will continue, even with the increasing complexity of our semiconductors. However, we may experience fluctuations in the manufacturing yield in some cases and thus be unable to sustain a high and improving yield level. Furthermore, shorter product life cycles require us to develop new products faster and require our contract foundry to manufacture these products in shorter periods of time. In some cases, these shorter manufacturing periods may not reach the high volume manufacturing periods conducive to higher manufacturing yields and declining costs. If our contract foundry fails to deliver fabricated silicon wafers of satisfactory quality in the volume and at the price required, we may be unable to meet our customers’ demand for our products or to sell those products at an acceptable profit margin, which would adversely affect our sales and margins and damage our customer relationships. Our products are complex and may require modifications to resolve undetected errors or failures in our hardware and software, which could lead to an increase in our costs, a loss of customers or a delay in market acceptance of our products. Our SoCs and total solutions are complex and may contain undetected hardware and software errors or failures when first introduced or as new versions are released. These errors could cause us to incur significant re-engineering costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from product development efforts and harm both our customer relations and business reputation. If we deliver products with errors, defects or bugs, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our products could be harmed. We provide warranties for product defects under which we must collect and replace defective goods upon receipt of notice from our customers. Increased claims under these warranties would increase our costs and adversely affect our profitability. Defects could also lead to liability as a result of lawsuits against us or against our customers. 12 Our products are manufactured across several sites throughout China and the Asia-Pacific region. Failure to deliver the work-in-process in time from one site to another may lead to higher operation costs, a decrease in sales and harm our reputation. Our principal operation center and our third-party manufacturing partners such as foundry service providers, testing houses and packing subcontractors are all located throughout China and the Asia-Pacific region. The distance between manufacturing sites is long and the delivery of raw material, work-in-process, and finished goods relies on the land-carriage and air-express, which are restricted by the weather and transportation conditions. Any delay in delivery could have a negative effect on our operations and may lead to higher operating costs, a decrease in sales, and harm our reputation and customer relationships. Our principal contract foundries, other subcontractors and many of our customers are located in the Pacific Rim, an area subject to significant risk of earthquakes, tsunamis, snowstorms, typhoons, and adverse consequences related to the outbreak of SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome), avian influenza and other public health concerns as well as risk of regional conflicts due to territorial disputes. The principal contract foundries that manufacture our products and all of the principal subcontractors that assemble, package, and test our products are located in China, Hong Kong or Taiwan. Many of our customers are also located in these areas. The risk of earthquakes, tsunamis, snowstorms, typhoons and other natural disasters in these Pacific Rim locations is significant. The occurrence of an earthquake or other natural disaster, such as the magnitude 9.0 earthquake and resulting tsunami in Japan in March 2011, near our principal contract foundries or subcontractors could result in damage, power outages, nuclear radiation pollution, and other disruptions that impair their production and assembly capacity and decrease the availability of raw materials or components from suppliers and manufacturers in Japan. In addition, the relationship between China and Japan, which is often strained due to historical reasons, in 2012 reached reportedly the lowest point since the end of World War II due to territorial disputes surrounding what are called by China as the Diaoyu Islands but known in Japan as the Senkaku Islands and has further deteriorated since then. If the tension between the two countries further escalates or even results in regional military conflicts, the availability of raw materials such as monocrystalline silicon from Japan could be materially disrupted. If Japan were to limit the export of, or China were to limit the import of, such raw materials from Japan, due to the political or military tension between the two countries, we and the entire semiconductor industry may encounter supply delays, disruptions and shortages. Any disruption resulting from the above events could cause significant delays in the production or shipment of our products until we are able to shift our raw material sourcing, manufacturing, assembling, packaging or production testing from the affected supplier or contractor to another third-party vendor. For example, in January and February of 2008, China’s worst snowstorm in more than half a century caused a significant adverse impact on the transportation industry and the economy of China. In May 2008, a major earthquake occurred with its epicenter in Sichuan, China, causing over 69,000 known deaths and estimated property damage in excess of US$20 billion. As a result of the earthquake, the economy of China was adversely affected. Also, the 2003 outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, curtailed travel to and from certain countries (primarily in the Asia-Pacific region) and limited travel and consumer activities within those countries, which had a significant adverse effect on the economies of many countries in this region. In addition, since 1997, certain Asian countries, including China, have, from time to time, encountered incidents of avian influenza that resulted in several confirmed human cases and deaths and significant disruption to worker productivity. Any future outbreaks of SARS, avian influenza or other public health concerns could result in a significant negative impact on the economy in China and the Asia-Pacific region, harming our business. 13 We may experience significant period-to-period quarterly and annual fluctuations in our revenues and operating results, which may result in volatility in our share price. The industry in which we operate is highly cyclical. We have had in the past and may in the future experience significant period-to-period fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. It is possible that our revenues and operating results in some quarters may be below market expectations, which would cause the value of our ordinary shares and ADSs to decline. Our quarterly and annual operating results are affected by a number of factors, including: · the unpredictable timing and volume of purchase orders and cancellations from our customers; · the rate of acceptance of our products by our customers; · the rate of growth of the market for portable media players, tablets and our SoCs; · fluctuation and seasonality in demand for consumer electronics products; · increases in prices charged by contract foundries and other third-party subcontractors; · the availability of third-party foundry capacity; · the availability and pricing of other components used in our customers’ products, including NAND Flash memory and TFT-LCD panels; · fluctuations in our contract foundry’s manufacturing yields; · the difficulty of forecasting and managing our inventory and production levels; · our ability to successfully develop, introduce and sell new or enhanced products; · additions or departures of key personnel; · our involvement in litigation; · natural disasters, particularly earthquakes, snowstorms or disease outbreaks affecting countries in which we conduct our business or in which our products are manufactured, assembled, or tested; and 14 · the evolution of industry standards and introduction of new products by our competitors. Because the markets in which we compete are highly competitive and many of our competitors have greater resources than us, we cannot be certain that our products will compete successfully and we may lose or be unable to gain market share. We face competition from a relatively large number of competitors in China and worldwide. Our principal competitors include ALi, AllWinner, Amlogic, Anyka, BestRely, Buildwin, Freescale, General Plus, Infotmic, Ingenic, Intel, JieLI, MediaTek, MVSilicon, Rockchips, Vmicro and WonderMedia. As we diversify and expand our product categories, we may also face competition from other semiconductor companies and manufacturers of consumer electronics and mobile devices. We expect to face increased competition in the future from our current and emerging competitors. In addition, some of our customers have developed and other customers could develop technology or products internally that could replace their need for our products or otherwise reduce demand for our products. Our customers may also enter into strategic relationships with or acquire existing semiconductor design companies. The consumer electronics market, which is the principal end market for our SoCs, has historically been subject to intense price competition. In many cases, low cost, high volume producers have entered markets and driven down profit margins. If a low cost, high volume producer should develop products that are competitive with our products, our sales and profit margins would suffer. Some of our potential competitors may have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, access to larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than us. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to changing customer demands or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sales of their products than we can. Our current and potential competitors may develop and introduce new products that will carry lower prices, provide better performance or achieve greater market acceptance than our products. In addition, in the event of a manufacturing capacity shortage, these competitors may be able to obtain capacity when we are unable to do so. Furthermore, our current or potential competitors have established, or may establish, financial and strategic relationships among themselves or with existing or potential customers or other third-parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of our prospective customers. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share, which would harm our business. If we fail to compete successfully, our business will suffer and we may lose or be unable to gain market share. We may not be able to successfully execute future acquisitions or investments or manage or effectively integrate any acquired business, technologies or teams. We seek to acquire or invest in businesses that are complementary to ours. This may require a significant commitment of management time, capital investment and other management resources. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in identifying and negotiating acquisitions or investments on terms favorable to us. If we are unable to execute, manage or integrate our acquisitions and investments effectively, our growth, operating results and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. 15 We have limited business insurance coverage and may be subject to losses that might not be covered by existing insurance coverage. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products. As a result, we only have limited business liability or disruption insurance coverage for our operations. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. We believe we are a “passive foreign investment company” or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for calendar year 2013 and in future years. Assuming we are a PFIC, U.S. investors of our ADSs are subject to certain adverse U.S. federal income tax rules. We believe we were a PFIC, as that term is defined in Section 1297 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, for calendar year 2013 and believe we will be a PFIC in 2014 and for the foreseeable future. Consequently, this classification may result in adverse tax consequences for U.S. holders. See the discussion about taxation in Item 10 of this Annual Report. U.S. shareholders and prospective holders of our ADSs are encouraged to consult their own tax advisers regarding the consequences of our PFIC status under U.S. federal income tax rules. Any failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and the market price of our ADSs. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S securities laws. The SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company’s internal controls over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. Our management and independent registered public accounting firm have concluded that our internal controls as of December 31, 2013 were effective. However, we cannot assure you that in the future we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify material weaknesses during the Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act audit process or for other reasons. In addition, because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a result, if we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or should we be unable to prevent or detect material misstatements due to error or fraud on a timely basis, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business, results of operations and negatively impact the market price of our ADSs, and harm our reputation. Furthermore, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur considerable costs and to use significant management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 16 A worldwide economic downturn could adversely affect the demand for our products, and in turn, our business and results of operations. The economic and financial downturn beginning in 2009 which affected the global business, banking and financial sectors adversely affected the consumer electronics market, especially in the United States and Europe in 2011. From 2012 to 2013, Western Europe experienced instability, resulting in reduced demand. The Chinese economy is also facing certain challenges such as inflation and concerns over the possibility of a bubble in the real estate market, which may result in the suspension or decrease of consumer electronics market demand. Our customers have altered and may continue to alter their purchasing activities in response to lack of credit, economic uncertainty and concern about the stability of markets in general, and have reduced or delayed purchases of our products and services. There could also be a number of effects from such turmoil on our business, including continued decreases in orders from our customers; insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and/or customer insolvencies; and counter party failures negatively impacting our treasury operations. Current uncertainty in global economic conditions also poses a risk to the overall economy that could impact our ability to manage commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers and creditors. In addition, to the extent we offer credit to any customer and such customer experiences financial difficulties due to the economic slowdown, we could have difficulty collecting payment from such customer. Risks Related to Intellectual Property We or our customers may be exposed to infringement claims on intellectual property rights by third-parties. Third-parties, including our competitors, may in the future make claims or initiate litigation that assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights in technologies, related standards and product names that are relevant to us. As we continue to expand our operations and the number of products we manufacture, the risk of such claims may increase. In addition to making claims against us, third-parties may make claims against our customers that incorporate our SoCs into their products. Such actions could adversely affect our relationships with such customers and hurt our sales. The large number of patents in the semiconductor industry, the confidential treatment of some pending patent applications and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents make it neither economically feasible nor possible to determine conclusively in advance whether a product, any of its components, its method of manufacture or use, or its ornamental design, currently infringes or will in the future infringe upon the patent rights of others. Parties making infringement claims may be able to obtain an injunction that could prevent us from selling our products or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property, which could have a material negative effect on our business. Third-parties making infringement claims may also be able to bring an action before the U.S. International Trade Commission that could result in an order stopping the importation into the United States of our products or bring similar actions in other parts of the world. Further, in addition to claims that may be made directly against us, we may be named in infringement actions made against our manufacturers, suppliers or customers. Some of our customer contracts provide that we indemnify the customer against claims of infringement based on our products. Regardless of the merit of these claims, they can be time-consuming, and result in costly litigation and divert the attention of our technical and management personnel. 17 To resolve any claim made against us, we may be required to develop alternative technology or obtain a license for the relevant intellectual property, each of which could be costly and time consuming. Licenses may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, or at all. We might also be required to cease using the trademark or other intellectual property under which our products were being marketed and sold. If any infringement or other intellectual property-based claim made against us by any third-party is successful, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We rely upon third-party licensed technology to develop our products. If licenses of third-party technology do not continue to be available to us or become very expensive, our ability to develop and introduce new products could be negatively impacted. We integrate third-party software or other licensed technology into almost all of our products. From time to time, we may be required to license additional technology from third-parties to develop new products or product enhancements. However, these third-party licenses may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Further, some of our existing licenses can be terminated without cause by the licensor. Our inability to maintain existing licenses on reasonable terms, or obtain additional licenses necessary to develop new products and product enhancements, could require us to obtain substitute technology at a greater cost or of lower quality or performance standards or delay product development. Any of these results may limit our ability to develop new products that utilize the latest technologies, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products are designed for use in devices manufactured by our customers that comply with international standards. These international standards are often covered by patents or copyrights held by third-parties, which may include our competitors. Before we design our products, we discuss with our customers the proprietary technologies that we must incorporate into our SoCs and the international standards that our SoCs must meet to function in the targeted portable media player and tablet products. We then obtain licenses required to incorporate each of those proprietary technologies into SoCs that meet these standards. The combined costs of identifying and obtaining licenses from all holders of patents and copyrights essential to such international standards could be high and could reduce our profitability or increase our losses. The cost of not obtaining such licenses could also be high if a holder of such patent or copyrights brings a claim for patent or copyright infringement. Any claims for indemnification that may be made could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Our rights to the intellectual property we develop may be difficult to enforce. We generally rely on patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws to establish and protect the proprietary rights in our know-how, technology, products, and product names. Our patent and trademark applications may not be granted, or if granted, may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by others. Further, we cannot be sure that any rights granted under patents, trademarks, copyrights or proprietary rights that are issued or registered will be sufficient to protect our technology or will in fact provide competitive advantages to us. As our revenue is not dependent on any particular patent, we believe the expiration or loss of any particular patent would not materially harm our business. However, if we are unable to protect the key intellectual property that we develop and use in our products, our ability to compete effectively may be diminished. Our success also depends on our other rights in proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret, trademark and contractual protection to establish and protect our proprietary rights that are not protected by patents, and we also typically enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and consultants. We require our customers to enter into confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements before we disclose any sensitive aspect of our platforms, technology or business plans. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights through confidentiality agreements and/or licensing agreements, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our platforms or technology. It is difficult to monitor unauthorized use of technology, particularly in China and other developing countries. Our precautions may not prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property. From time to time, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. Even where we take such actions, we cannot assure you that we will be successful or that our rights will be protected. Further, our headquarters, manufacturing operations and the principal market of most of our products are located in China. Our efforts to protect our proprietary rights could be ineffective in China where the laws may not protect proprietary rights as effectively as the laws do in other countries such as the United States. Our intellectual property indemnification practices may adversely impact our business. From time to time, we may be required to indemnify our customers for certain costs and damages of patent and copyright infringement in circumstances where our product is the factor creating the customer’s infringement exposure. This practice may subject us to significant indemnification claims by our customers and may adversely impact our business. Risks Related to our Industry Demand for our products is highly dependent on the consumer electronics market, which is characterized by short product life cycles and subject to risks related to product transitions and supply of other components. We derive almost all of our revenues from a limited number of products that are used in consumer electronic devices. The consumer electronics market is characterized by intense competition, rapidly changing technology, and continuously evolving consumer preferences. These factors result in the frequent introduction of new products, short product life cycles and significant price competition. The dynamic nature of this market limits our, as well as our customers’, ability to accurately forecast quarterly and annual sales. If we or our customers are unable to manage product transitions, our business and results of operations could be negatively affected. In addition, we are subject to the risk of supply problems for other components, such as flash memory and TFT- LCD display, which our customers require for manufacturing the consumer end products. For example, if our customers are unable to obtain sufficient supplies of other key components in their portable media players or tablets, the sales of our products that are also used in such devices would be adversely affected. A decrease in demand for consumer electronics will also decrease demand for our products, which will adversely affect our business and results of operations. 19 We are subject to the highly cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical. The industry has experienced periods of both increased demand and significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product life cycles (of both semiconductor companies’ and their customers’ products) and declines in general economic conditions. The downturns have been characterized by production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. For example, in early 2009, the semiconductor industry experienced a dramatic and unprecedented decline in demand for semiconductor devices due to the worldwide economic downturn. On the other hand, at times of increased demand, if we cannot meet such demand because of reasons such as production capacity constraints, insufficient inventory or untimely transportation, our business, financial condition and results of operations may also be materially adversely affected. The industry standards supported by our products are continually evolving, and our success depends on our ability to adapt our products to meet these changing industry standards. Our ability to compete in the future will depend on our ability to ensure that our products comply with changing industry standards. The emergence of new industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by our customers. As a result, we could be required to invest significant time and effort and to incur significant expense to redesign our products to ensure compliance with relevant standards. If our products do not comply with prevailing industry standards for a significant period of time, we could miss opportunities to make crucial product introductions. We may invest substantial effort and expense in developing or using new technologies or in developing new products or product enhancements, but such effort and expense may not result in market acceptance of our products. 20 U.S. regulations regarding the use of conflict minerals, may affect our, or our supply chain’s, ability to purchase or acquire certain raw materials at competitive prices. Many industries rely on materials which are subject to regulation concerning certain minerals sourced from the Democratic Republic of Congo, or DRC, or adjoining countries. These minerals are commonly referred to as conflict minerals. Conflict minerals which may be used in the semiconductor industry or by our suppliers include Columbite-tantalite (derivative of tantalum [Ta]), Cassiterite (derivative of tin [Sn]), gold [Au], Wolframite (derivative of tungsten [W]), and Cobalt [Co]. The SEC has adopted regulations that will require companies such as ours to disclose, beginning in 2014, the use of conflict materials and to take certain steps to verify those disclosures with its suppliers. Certain of our suppliers may not be able to source all of the conflict minerals necessary to their production from outside the DRC or its adjoining countries and there can be no guarantee that we are able to obtain adequate supplies of materials needed in our production from supply chains outside the DRC and adjoining countries. A failure to maintain adequate supplies of materials from supply chains outside the DRC and adjoining countries may delay our production, increasing the risk of losing customers and business. Further, due to the complexity of our supply chain, we may not be able to trace all usage of conflict minerals and may face reputational harm resulting from making disclosure of the use of such conflict minerals. Any new regulations or customer requirements related to climate change or environmental protection could negatively impact our operating results. There is global concern that an increase in global average temperatures due to emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) and other human activities have or will cause significant changes in weather patterns and increase the frequency and severity of natural disasters. Climate change, including the impact of global warming, creates physical and financial risk. Physical risks from climate change include an increase in sea level and changes in weather conditions, such as an increase in changes in precipitation and extreme weather events. Climate change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity by increasing our manufacturing costs or limiting the products we can manufacture. We may become subject to legislation and regulation addressing climate change and Chinese air quality, and compliance with any new rules could be difficult and costly. Concerned parties, such as legislators and regulators, shareholders and non-governmental organizations, as well as companies in many business sectors, are considering ways to reduce GHG emissions. Legislative bodies have proposed various legislative and regulatory measures relating to climate change, regulating GHG emissions and energy policies. If such legislation is enacted, we could incur increased energy, environmental and other costs and capital expenditures to comply with the limitations. Due to the uncertainty in the regulatory and legislative processes, as well as the scope of such requirements and initiatives, we cannot currently determine the effect such legislation and regulation may have on our operations. Moreover, serious air pollution in Chinese cities where we operate could pose long-term health risks to our employees and increase the difficulty of recruiting and retaining key employees from overseas. Further, we could face increased costs related to defending and resolving legal claims and other litigation related to climate change and the alleged impact of our operations on climate change. 21 Risks Related to Doing Business in China The M&A rules establish complex procedures for some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors, which could make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions in China. Six PRC regulatory agencies promulgated the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, commonly referred to as the Merger & Acquisition Rules, or the M&A Rules, effective on September 8, 2006 and amended on June 22, 2009. In addition, on February 3, 2011, the General Office of the State Council promulgated the Notice on Launching the Security Review System for Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Security Review Rule, which became effective on March 5, 2011. The M&A Rules establish procedures and requirements that could make some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the Ministry of Commerce be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a Chinese domestic enterprise. The M&A Security Review Rule provides for certain circumstances under which foreign investors’ acquisition of Chinese companies shall be subject to national security review of the PRC government. Because we may expand our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses, complying with the requirements of the M&A Rules and the M&A Security Review Rule to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the Ministry of Commerce, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. An unexpected slowdown in the growth of the Chinese economy may harm our growth and profitability. Our business is primarily dependent upon the economy and the business environment in China. In particular, our growth strategy is based upon the assumption that demand in China for tablets and portable media players will continue to grow with the Chinese economy. While the Chinese economy has experienced significant growth in recent years, the growth of the Chinese economy has been uneven across geographic regions and economic sectors. The PRC government has implemented various economic and political policies and laws and regulations to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. Any adverse changes to these policies of the PRC government or the laws and regulations of the PRC could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business. 22 China’s legal system is characterized by uncertainty that could negatively impact our business and results of operations. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have limited value as precedent. Beginning in 1979, the PRC government promulgated a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters, which has had the overall effect of significantly enhancing the protections afforded to foreign invested enterprises in China. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively new and are evolving rapidly, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to foreign investors. In addition, enforcement of existing laws, or contracts based on existing law, may be uncertain and sporadic, and it may be difficult to obtain swift and equitable enforcement or to obtain enforcement of a judgment by a court of another jurisdiction. The relative inexperience of China’s judiciary in many cases creates additional uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. Furthermore, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of a violation of these policies and rules until some time after the violation. Changes in China’s political and economic policies could negatively impact our business. Substantially all of our business operations are conducted in China. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject in a significant degree to the economic, political and legal developments in China. China's economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including with respect to the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the Chinese economy has experienced significant growth in the past 30 years, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. We cannot predict the future direction of these economic reforms or the effects these measures may have on our business, financial position or results of operations. Any adverse changes to these policies of the PRC government or the laws and regulations of the PRC could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business. Restrictions on foreign currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. Any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenues generated in RMB to fund our business activities outside China or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars or other foreign currencies. The PRC government has introduced regulations since 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the RMB, under which regulations RMB is freely convertible for current account transactions such as trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not for capital account transactions such as direct investment, loan or investment in securities outside China unless the prior approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, is obtained. These limitations could affect our ability to obtain foreign exchange for capital expenditures. We cannot be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the RMB, especially with respect to capital account transactions. 23 Changes in the preferential tax treatments we currently enjoy in the PRC may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. The PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or EIT Law, effective January 1, 2008, has imposed a single uniform income tax rate of 25% for most domestic enterprises and foreign-invested enterprises. It contemplates various transition periods and measures for existing preferential tax policies in favor of foreign-invested enterprises, including among others, a five-year transition period from its effective date for those companies which were established before the promulgation date of the EIT Law and which were entitled to a preferential tax treatment such as a reduced tax rate or a tax holiday. While the EIT Law equalizes the tax rates for foreign-invested enterprises and domestic enterprises, preferential tax treatment would continue to be given to companies in certain encouraged sectors and to entities classified as “High Technology Enterprises supported by the PRC government,” or High Technology Enterprises, whether foreign-invested enterprises or domestic enterprises. In addition, if recognized as a “Key Software Enterprise” or a “Key Integrated Circuit Design Enterprise,” a company is entitled to enjoy, among other things, 10% tax preference on EIT if no tax exemption preference is enjoyed in the current year. Each of our principal and major PRC subsidiaries, Actions Semiconductor Co., Ltd., or Actions Semiconductor (Zhuhai), and Artek Microelectronics Co., Ltd., or Artek Microelectronics (Shenzhen), is a foreign invested enterprise. According to the EIT Law, entities that qualify as High Technology Enterprises are expected to benefit from a tax rate of 15%, as compared to the uniform tax rate of 25%. In December 2008 and August 2011, Actions Semiconductor (Zhuhai) was certified as a High Technology Enterprise by the relevant tax authorities and became entitled to a preferential EIT rate of 15% until December 31, 2014. In December 2013, Actions Semiconductor (Zhuhai) was certified as a Key Integrated Circuit Design Enterprise by the relevant tax authorities and became entitled to a preferential EIT rate of 10% until December 31, 2014. Artek Microelectronics (Shenzhen) was also certified as a High Technology Enterprise by the relevant tax authorities and became entitled to a preferential EIT rate of 15% from January 1, 2012 to December 31, 2014. Due to a preferential tax policy that provides for tax exemption for two years starting from the first profitable year of operation after taking into account any tax losses brought forward from prior years and a 50% tax rate reduction for the succeeding three years, Actions Semiconductor (Zhuhai) benefited from an EIT rate of 9% for the year ended December 31, 2008, which was the fifth year after it had profits after offsetting its prior years’ tax losses, which EIT rate would otherwise have been 18% during the first year of the five-year EIT transition period. In addition, due to its certification as a High Technology Enterprise and a Key Integrated Circuit Design Enterprise, Actions Semiconductor (Zhuhai) benefited from a 15.0% EIT rate for each of the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012, and a 10% EIT rate for the year ended December 31, 2013. Due to a preferential tax policy that provides for tax exemption for the first two years starting from the first profitable year of operation after taking into account any tax losses brought forward from prior years, and a 50% tax rate reduction for the succeeding three years, Artek Microelectronics (Shenzhen) was exempted from income tax for the year ended December 31, 2008, which was the second year it had profits after offsetting its prior years’ tax losses, and benefited from a 10.0%, 11.0% and 12.0% EIT rate, which would otherwise be the interim 20.0%, 22.0% and 24.0% EIT rates during the five-year transition period, for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. In addition, due to its certification as a High Technology Enterprise, Artek Microelectronics (Shenzhen) was entitled to a 15.0% EIT rate for the year ended December 31, 2012 and 2013. There can be no assurances that any of our PRC subsidiaries will continue to qualify as High Technology Enterprises in the future and benefit from such preferential EIT rate. For more information regarding the impact of the EIT Law on us, see also “Item 5.A. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Operating Results—Taxation.” 24 We may be deemed a Chinese resident enterprise under the EIT Law and be subject to the PRC taxation on our worldwide income. Under the EIT Law, if any enterprise incorporated outside the PRC has its “de facto management body” located within the PRC, such enterprise may be recognized as a PRC resident enterprise and be subject to the unified EIT rate of 25%. On December 6, 2007, the Implementation Rules of the EIT Law were promulgated, which rules defined the “de facto management body” as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and treasury, and acquisition and disposition of properties and other assets of an enterprise. Further, on April 22, 2009, the PRC State Administration of Tax, or SAT, issued a Notice on Certain Issues regarding the Determination of Offshore Companies Controlled by PRC Companies as Resident Enterprises pursuant to “De Facto Management Bodies” Standard, or the April Notice, which took effect retrospectively on January 1, 2008. According to the April Notice, any company established pursuant to laws and regulations other than PRC laws but that is controlled by companies or company groups within China shall be deemed as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes if all the following conditions are met: (i) the senior management in charge of the daily operation and management of the company is based within China or the premises where the senior management performs its duties are located within China; (ii) the financial matters (such as raising funds, financing or financial risk management) and human resources matters (such as appointment and dismissal of employees or their payrolls) are decided by companies or individuals within China or require approval from companies or individuals within China; (iii) material assets, books and accounts, company seal and meeting minutes of board meetings or shareholder meetings are kept or placed within China; and (iv) half or more of the directors with voting rights or senior management habitually reside within China. According to this April Notice, in determining the location of de facto management, “substance over form” principle should be followed. On July 27, 2011, the SAT issued Administrative Measures of Enterprise Income Tax of Chinese-controlled Offshore Incorporated Resident Enterprises (Trial), or Bulletin 45, which became effective on September 1, 2011, to provide further guidance on the implementation of the April Notice. Bulletin 45 clarifies certain issues related to determining PRC resident enterprise status of PRC controlled enterprises, post-determination administration and which competent tax authorities are responsible for determining offshore incorporated PRC resident enterprise status. Bulletin 45 specifies that when provided with a copy of a Chinese tax resident determination certificate issued by the competent tax authorities from an offshore incorporated PRC resident enterprise, the payer should not withhold 10% income tax when paying Chinese-sourced dividends, interest and royalties to the offshore incorporated PRC resident enterprise. Because the April Notice was issued to regulate PRC tax resident determination of companies established overseas and controlled by PRC companies, which is not applicable in our case, the criteria in the notice can only be used for reference purposes. The PRC tax authorities can determine whether or not certain offshore companies shall be deemed as resident enterprises for PRC tax purposes. 25 Currently no interpretation or application of the EIT Law and its implementing rules with respect to the resident enterprise determination is available for overseas companies like ours that are not established or controlled by PRC companies. Therefore, it is unclear whether PRC tax authorities would treat us as a PRC resident enterprise. If we or any of our subsidiaries that are not incorporated in the PRC are treated as a PRC resident enterprise, we or any such subsidiaries, as the case may be, will be subject to PRC EIT on our worldwide income, or on the worldwide income of such subsidiaries, as the case may be, at the 25% uniform tax rate, which could have an impact on our effective tax rate and an adverse effect on our net income and results of operations and increase our income tax expenses. Dividends we receive from our non-PRC resident subsidiaries and dividends payable by us to our foreign investors and gain on the sale of our Shares may become subject to withholding taxes under PRC tax laws. According to the EIT Law, dividends received by a PRC resident enterprise from another PRC resident are exempted from EIT except for the dividends derived from publicly issued and traded shares of a resident enterprise that are held for less than 12 consecutive months. However, it remains unclear whether we, Actions Semiconductor Co., Ltd., and/or our overseas holding companies will be treated as PRC resident enterprises or, if so, whether dividends declared and paid by our subsidiaries in the PRC to our overseas holding companies and by our overseas holding companies to us will be exempted from EIT. Under the EIT Law and implementation regulations issued by the State Council, PRC income tax at the rate of 10% is applicable to dividends payable to investors that are “non-resident enterprises” (and that do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC, or that have such establishment or place of business but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business) to the extent such dividends have their source within the PRC. Under PRC Individual Income Tax Law, individuals are generally liable for a 20% individual income tax on dividend income. Such individual income tax should apply to dividends received by a non-resident individual from a PRC resident enterprise. A reduced tax rate on dividends may be applicable for non-resident enterprise investors and non-resident individual investors under an applicable tax treaty or tax arrangement between the PRC and the investor’s resident country or region. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of shares by non-resident enterprise and individual investors is also subject to a 10% PRC EIT rate and a 20% individual income tax, respectively, if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC unless otherwise exempted under PRC domestic regulations and applicable tax treaties or tax arrangements. 26 Our subsidiaries in China are foreign-invested enterprises directly held by our subsidiaries in Hong Kong or Mauritius. According to the tax treaties between China and Hong Kong and between China and Mauritius, dividends payable by a foreign-invested enterprise in China to a company in Hong Kong or to a company in Mauritius, which directly holds at least 25% of the equity interests in the foreign-invested enterprise, will be subject to a withholding tax of 5%. However, on February 20, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation promulgated the Notice on Relevant Issues of Implementing Dividend Clauses under Tax Treaties, or the 2009 February Notice, clarifying that no enterprise is entitled to the preferential treatment on dividend withholding tax rates pursuant to any tax treaties if such enterprise becomes qualified for such preferential tax rates through any transaction or arrangement whose major purpose is to obtain such preferential tax treatment. The tax authority in charge has the right to make adjustments to the applicable tax rates if it determines that any taxpayer has enjoyed preferential treatment under tax treaties as a result of such transaction or arrangement. Furthermore, on August 24, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation promulgated the Administrative Measures on Treatment of Non-residents under Tax Treaties (Trial Implementation), or 2009 August Notice, which became effective on October 1, 2009. According to the 2009 August Notice, any non-resident who wishes to enjoy tax treaty treatment under the following sections in the relevant tax treaties shall apply to the tax authorities with competent jurisdiction for approval: (i) dividend; (ii) interest; (iii) royalty; and (iv) property income. The relevant tax authorities shall have twenty to fifty working days, after an application is accepted, to decide whether to approve such application. If the relevant tax authorities do not notify the applicant of the approving result in writing within the above time frame, the relevant application shall be deemed to have been approved. We have not applied to the relevant tax authorities for the preferential withholding tax rate under the tax treaty between China and Hong Kong or the tax treaty between China and Mauritius so far. Since both the 2009 February Notice and the 2009 August Notice have been in effect for a relatively short period of time, it remains unclear how the PRC tax authorities will implement them in practice and to what extent they will affect the dividend withholding tax rates for dividends distributed by our subsidiaries in China to our Hong Kong subsidiaries or our Mauritius subsidiary. If the relevant tax authority determines that our Hong Kong subsidiaries and Mauritius subsidiary were set up to take advantage of the preferential tax rates on dividends, or our application for the preferential withholding tax rate under the tax treaty between China and Hong Kong or the tax treaty between China and Mauritius is rejected by the competent tax authorities, the higher 10% withholding tax rate may apply to such dividends. If we are considered as a PRC “resident enterprise”, the dividends we pay with respect to our ADSs, or the capital gain you may realize from the transfer of our ADSs, could be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and be subject to PRC withholding tax. If such dividends or capital gains are taxable in the PRC, the applicable income tax rate would be 10% for non-PRC institutional shareholders and 20% for non-PRC individual shareholders, unless they are able to claim a lower tax rate pursuant to applicable tax treaties. If we are required under the EIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on our dividends payable to our non-PRC resident shareholders, or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of your ADSs, the value of your investment in our ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents and employee stock options granted by overseas-listed companies may increase our administrative burden, restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activity or otherwise adversely affect the implementation of our acquisition strategy. If our shareholders who are PRC residents, or our PRC employees who are granted or exercise stock options, fail to make any required registrations or filings under such regulations, we may be unable to distribute profits and may become subject to liability under PRC laws. 27 On October 21, 2005, SAFE promulgated Notice of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange on the Administration of Foreign Exchange Involved in Financing and Roundtrip Investment Conducted by PRC Residents via Special-Purpose Companies, which requires PRC residents (which includes PRC individual residents and PRC corporate entities that registered in PRC) to register with local branches of SAFE in connection with their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. These regulations apply to our shareholders who are PRC residents and may apply to any offshore acquisitions that we make in the future. Under the SAFE regulations, PRC residents who make, or have previously made, direct or indirect investments in offshore companies, will be required to register with local branches of SAFE in connection with their incorporation or control of the offshore company established for the special purpose of overseas equity financing involving a roundtrip investment whereby the offshore company acquires or controls onshore assets or equity interests held by the PRC residents. In addition, such PRC residents are required to file or update the registration with the local branch of SAFE, with respect to that offshore company, any material change involving its round-trip investment, capital variation, such as an increase or decrease in capital, transfer or swap of shares, merger, division, long-term equity or debt investment or providing guarantee to third party. If any PRC resident shareholders fails to make the required SAFE registration or file or update the registration, the PRC subsidiaries of that offshore parent company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation, to their offshore parent company, and the offshore parent company may also be prohibited from contributing additional capital into their PRC subsidiaries. Moreover, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. We cannot provide any assurances that all of our shareholders who are PRC residents have made or obtained any applicable registrations or approvals required by these SAFE regulations. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders to comply with the registration procedures set forth therein may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our cross-border investment activities, or limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends or obtain foreign-exchange-denominated loans to our company. As it is uncertain how the SAFE regulations will be interpreted or implemented, we cannot predict how these regulations will affect our business operations or future strategy. For example, we may be subject to more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign-currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we decide to acquire a PRC domestic company, we cannot assure you that we or the owners of such company, as the case may be, will be able to obtain the necessary approvals or complete the necessary filings and registrations required by the SAFE regulations. This may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and could adversely affect our business and prospects. 28 On March 28, 2007, SAFE promulgated the Application Procedure of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plan or Stock Option Plan of Overseas-Listed Company, or the Stock Option Rule. Under the Stock Option Rule, PRC citizens who are granted stock options by an overseas publicly-listed company are required, through a PRC agent or PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly-listed company, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures. We and our PRC employees who have been granted stock options are subject to the Stock Option Rule. If we or our PRC optionees fail to comply with these regulations, we or our PRC optionees may be subject to fines and legal sanctions. On February 15, 2012, SAFE promulgated the Circular on Certain Foreign Exchange Issues Relating to Domestic Individuals’ Participation in Stock Incentive Plan of Overseas Listed Company, or the New Stock Option Rule. Upon the effectiveness of the New Stock Option Rule on February 15, 2012, the Stock Option Rule became void, although the basic requirements and procedures provided under the Stock Option Rule remain unchanged in the New Stock Option Rule, i.e., the domestic employees participating in stock incentive plan of a overseas listed company shall appoint the PRC subsidiary of the overseas listed company or a domestic qualified agent to make the registration of the stock incentive plan with SAFE and handle all foreign exchange-related matters of the stock incentive plan through the special bank account approved by SAFE. The New Stock Option Rule clarifies that the domestic subsidiary of an overseas listed company shall include the limited liability company, partnership and the representative office directly or indirectly established by such overseas listed company in China and the domestic employees shall include the directors, supervisors, the senior management and other employees of the domestic subsidiary, including the foreign employees of the domestic subsidiary who continuously reside in China for at least one year. Similar with the Stock Option Rule, the New Stock Option Rule requires that the annual allowance with respect to the purchase of foreign exchange in connection with stock holding or stock option exercises shall be subject to the approval of SAFE. The New Stock Option Rule further requires that the material amendments of the stock incentive plan shall be filed with SAFE within three months following the occurrence of the material amendments. The domestic agent shall also make a quarterly update to SAFE to disclose the information with respect to the stock option exercises, the stock holding and foreign exchange matters. If the domestic employees or the domestic agent fails to comply with the requirements of the New Stock Option Rule, SAFE may demand compliance and even impose administrative penalties that SAFE deems appropriate. Prior to the effectiveness of the New Stock Option Rule, we completed the registration with SAFE for our Chinese employees who participate in our equity incentive plan and have maintained the update to SAFE in accordance with the Stock Option Rule. Under the New Stock Option Rule, we do not need to re-register but must comply with the requirements applicable to companies which have completed the registration, including the quarterly update to SAFE, registration for material amendments of our equity incentive plan and the registration for the foreign employees of our PRC subsidiaries who continuously reside in China for at least one year. 29 We face uncertainty from China’s Circular on Strengthening the Administration of Enterprise Income Tax on Non-Resident Enterprises' Equity Transfer (“Circular 698”) that was released in December 2009 with retroactive effect from January 1, 2008. The SAT released the Circular on Strengthening the Administration of Enterprise Income Tax on Non-resident Enterprises’ Equity Transfers, or Circular 698, on December 10, 2009 that addresses the transfer of equity interest in resident enterprises by nonresident companies. Circular 698, which was effective retroactively from January 1, 2008, may have a significant impact on many companies that use offshore holding companies to invest in China. Where a foreign investor indirectly transfers equity interests in a Chinese resident enterprise by selling the shares in an intermediate offshore holding company, and the latter is located in a country or jurisdiction where the effective tax burden is less than 12.5% or where the offshore income of its residents is not taxable, the foreign investor is required to provide the tax authority in charge of that Chinese resident enterprise with the relevant information within 30 days of the transfers. If the intermediate holding company mainly serves as a tax avoidance vehicle and does not have any reasonable business purpose, the PRC tax authority may disregard the intermediate holding company and re-characterize the equity transfer by referring to its economic essence, and as a result, the foreign investor may be subject to a 10% PRC withholding tax for the capital gains realized from the equity transfer. We do not believe that a transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs by our non-PRC shareholders should be treated as an indirect transfer of equity interests in our PRC subsidiaries subject to Circular 698, as such share transfer is not carried out for the main purposes of avoiding PRC taxes. However, there is uncertainty as to the interpretation and application of Circular 698 by the PRC tax authorities in practice. If you are required to pay PRC withholding tax on the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, your investment in us may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we cannot predict how Circular 698 will affect our financial conditions or operations. For example, we may be required to expend valuable resources on complying with Circular 698 or establishing that we should not be taxed under Circular 698, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely principally on dividends paid by our subsidiaries to fund any cash and financing requirements we may have, and any limitation on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are a holding company and rely principally on dividends paid by our subsidiaries for cash requirements, including the funds necessary to service any debt we may incur. If any of our subsidiaries incurs debt in its own name in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict dividends or other distributions on its equity interest to us. Furthermore, applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations permit payment of dividends by our PRC entities only out of their retained earnings, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards. Our PRC subsidiaries are required to set aside a certain percentage of their after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to their reserve fund in accordance with the requirements of relevant laws and provisions in their respective articles of associations. As a result, our PRC subsidiaries may be restricted in their ability to transfer a portion of their net income to us whether in the form of dividends, loans or advances. Any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends or otherwise fund and conduct our business. 30 Relations between Taiwan and China could negatively affect our business, financial condition and operating results and, therefore, the market value of our ADSs. China does not recognize the sovereignty of Taiwan. Although significant economic and cultural relations have been established during recent years between Taiwan and China, relations have often been strained. Therefore, factors affecting the military, political or economic relationship between China and Taiwan could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. For example, the Taiwan government may periodically adopt or amend its regulations and policies relating to investment and participation in investments in PRC companies by Taiwanese persons or entities established under the laws of Taiwan, referred to as Taiwanese Persons. In the past, the Taiwan government imposed restrictions on direct and indirect investments by Taiwanese Persons in certain industries in the PRC, including the semiconductor design industry and certain sectors of the semiconductor manufacturing industry, and provided that any Taiwanese Person with “control and influence” over a non-Taiwan entity that has investments in a PRC entity would be deemed to have made an indirect investment in such PRC entity. Because certain of our directors, senior management and employees are Taiwanese Persons, if these prior investment restrictions were reinstated, the Taiwan government may consider one or more of our directors, senior management and employees to have inappropriate control and influence. In this event, such director, senior management member or employee could be required to leave the company or be subject to sanctions by the Taiwan government. Fluctuations in the value of the RMB could negatively impact our results of operations. The value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. dollar so that the RMB is permitted to fluctuate within a managed band based on market supply and demand and by reference to a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in a 36.7% appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar between July 21, 2005 and December 31, 2013. While the international reaction to the RMB revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which may result in a further and more significant appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. Although our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar and virtually all of our sales are denominated in U.S. dollar, our operating expenses and substantially all of our assets and liabilities are denominated in RMB. As a result, any significant revaluation of the RMB may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenue, earnings and financial position, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ADSs in U.S. dollars. Generally, if the RMB appreciates against the U.S. dollar, our operating expenses will increase and, as a consequence, our operating margins and net income will likely decline. However, this effect may be partially offset by the fact that we also incur expenses and liabilities in U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies and have our major interest-generating financing activities in RMB. 31 As we rely entirely on dividends paid to us by Actions Semiconductor (Zhuhai) and Artek Microelectronics (Shenzhen) for, among other items, working capital, distributions to other subsidiaries and capital to make acquisition and investments, any significant devaluation of the RMB may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Reduction in interest rates will result in a decrease in our interest income. Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to the interest income generated by our RMB cash deposits in banks and other financial institutions. We have very limited derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio to hedge interest rate risks. In 2011, 2012 and 2013, the rate of return on our RMB cash deposit was 6.1%, 6.2% and 5.6%, respectively. As a result of the Chinese government’s alternate efforts to curb inflation or stimulate economy, interest rates have often fluctuated. For example, China’s central bank raised interest rates three times in 2011 due to China’s relatively high inflation rate in 2011 but then decreased interest rates twice in 2012. At the beginning of 2012, the China Banking Regulatory Commission imposed certain limitations on the amount of new loans to be granted by commercial banks in China to minimize the risk of defaults. In 2013, the money market was further tightened, resulting in a shortage of funds for many banks in June and December. In addition, China’s central bank launched interest rate liberalization in July 2013 and cancelled the ceiling and floor which used to limit the fluctuation of commercial banks’ lending rates. Changes in policies and market conditions such as the above may have a direct or indirect material adverse impact on the interest rates offered by banks and other financial institutions and in turn may adversely affect the interest income generated from our financial investments in financial institutions. Further, if there is any future uncertainty in global economic and market conditions, a decreasing interest rate might adversely affect our interest income and in turn impact our net income. The systematic credit risks among banking and financial institutions in China and worldwide may negatively impact our results of cash management and eventually shareholder’s equity. As of December 31, 2013, we had marketable securities, current and non-current, of US$143.7 million. These marketable securities were principally investments with guaranteed high interest rates and mainly 3 to 24 month terms. Most of them were issued, managed or guaranteed by state-owned banks or financial institutions in China. The Chinese government has been closely supervising its state-owned banks and financial institutions since the global financial crisis in 2008 and does not allow any delinquencies in credit guaranteed by them. However, if the Chinese government relaxes its discipline on its banking and financial systems, the systematic credit risks may cause our investments in marketable securities or the returns on such investments to become uncollectible, impacting our results of cash management, and eventually deteriorating shareholder’s equity. The audit report included in this annual report is prepared by auditors who are not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, you are deprived of the benefits of such inspection Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the SEC, as auditors of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the US Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (“the “PCAOB”), is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. 32 Because we have substantial operations within the People’s Republic of China and the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections of the work of our auditors as it relates to those operations without the approval of the Chinese authorities, our auditors are not currently inspected fully by the PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor’s audits and its quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct full inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. Proceedings instituted recently by the SEC against five Mainland China-based accounting firms, including the affiliate of our independent registered public accounting firm, could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act. In late 2012, the SEC commenced administrative proceedings under Rule 102(e) of its Rules of Practice and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 against the Mainland Chinese affiliates of the ‘‘big four’’ accounting firms (including the Mainland Chinese affiliate of our auditors) and also against Dahua (the former BDO affiliate in China). The Rule 102(e) proceedings initiated by the SEC relate to these firms’ failure to produce documents, including audit work papers, in response to the request of the SEC pursuant to Section 106 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as the auditors located in Mainland China are not in a position to lawfully produce documents directly to the SEC pursuant to the SEC’s request because of restrictions under PRC law and specific directives issued by the China Securities Regulatory Commission. The issues raised by the administrative proceedings affect equally all audit firms based in Mainland China and all China-based businesses with securities listed in the United States. In January 2014, an administrative judge at the SEC reached an Initial Decision that the “big four” accounting firms in Mainland China should be barred from practicing before the SEC for six months. Although the principal auditor of our financial statements is Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu in Hong Kong which is not subject to the proceedings or the Initial Decision, our auditors use their Mainland China affiliate to assist in the auditing of the Mainland China components of our operations. However, it is currently impossible to determine the ultimate outcome of this matter as the accounting firms have filed a Petition for Review of the Initial Decision and pending that review the effect of the Initial Decision is suspended. The SEC Commissioners will review the Initial Decision, determine whether there has been any violation and, if so, determine the appropriate sanctions, if any, to be placed on these accounting firms. Once such a determination by the SEC Commissioners was made, the accounting firms would have a further right to appeal to the United States federal courts, and the effect of the order might be further stayed pending the outcome of that appeal. 33 Depending upon the final outcome, listed companies in the United States with major Mainland China operations may find it difficult or impossible to retain auditors in respect of their operations in the PRC, which may result in their delisting. Moreover, any negative news about the proceedings against these audit firms may erode investor confidence in China-based, United States-listed companies and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure and Our ADSs We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than under U.S. law, there may be less protection of your shareholder rights than you would have under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, the rights of minority shareholders to institute actions, and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, the latter of which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of our board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a U.S. company. We may incur significant costs to avoid being considered an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Generally, the Investment Company Act of 1940, or the 1940 Act, provides that a company is not an investment company and is not required to register under the 1940 Act as an investment company if the company is primarily engaged, directly or through a wholly-owned subsidiary or subsidiaries, in a business or businesses other than that of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities or has investment securities that comprise less than 40% of its total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities or cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. 34 We are a fabless semiconductor company that engages primarily in the businesses of designing, developing and marketing integrated platform systems, including SoCs, firmware, software development tools and reference designs, for manufacturers of portable multimedia players. While we believe that we qualify as a research and development company under rules promulgated under the 1940 Act, the SEC may not agree with our analysis. Specifically, even though, the value of our investment securities constituted approximately 52.8% of our total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities or cash items) on an unconsolidated basis as of December 31, 2013, we do not believe that we are an investment company because we believe that we qualify as a research and development company under rules promulgated under the 1940 Act as a result of the following: (i) our research and development expenses, for the last four fiscal quarters combined, account for 70.6%, a substantial percentage of our total expenses for the same period; (ii) our net income derived from investments in securities, for the last four fiscal quarters combined, does not exceed twice the amount of our research and development expenses for the same period; (iii) our expenses for investment advisory and management activities, investment research and custody, for the last four fiscal quarters, combined, do not exceed 5% of our total expenses for the same period; (iv) our investments in securities are capital preservation investments, except that no more than 25% of our total assets may consist of other investments, provided that at least 75% of such other investments are investments made pursuant to a collaborative research and development arrangement; (v) we do not hold ourselves out as being engaged in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities, and we are not a special situation investment company; (vi) we are primarily engaged, directly, through majority-owned subsidiaries, or through companies which we control primarily, in a business or businesses other than that of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding, or trading in securities, as evidenced by a. the activities of our officers, directors and employees; b. our public representations of policies; c. our historical development; and d. a resolution adopted by our board of directors affirming that we are, and will continue to be, primarily engaged in an operating business, and not in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding, or trading in securities; and (vii) our board of directors has adopted a written investment policy with respect to our capital preservation investments. 35 Nevertheless, since a part of the determination of whether we are an investment company is based on facts and circumstances, the SEC may not agree with our position with respect to our historical business, while it is also possible that we may not satisfy the requirements of the exemption for research and development companies in the future. For example, we may not in the future satisfy the tests relating to the ratio of our research and development expenses to our total expenses, the ratio of our net income derived from investments in securities to our research and development expenses, the ratio of our expenses for investment advisory and management activities to our total expenses and the composition and value of our investments. Consequently, we could inadvertently become an investment company at some point in the future. If we were to become subject to the requirements of the 1940 Act, we would be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, and consequently our operations and results would be negatively impacted in a significant manner, including among other possible effects, our inability to borrow money or raise capital through the offer and sale of our securities in the United States. We could also be subject to administrative or legal proceedings and, among other things, contracts to which we are a party might be rendered unenforceable or subject to rescission. Additionally, we would be unable to continue operating as we currently do and might need to acquire or sell assets that we would not otherwise acquire or sell in order to avoid becoming an “investment company” as defined under the 1940 Act. We may incur significant costs and management time to avoid being considered an investment company under the 1940 Act, as amended. Further, if we were deemed to be an investment company, we might also attempt to seek exemptive relief from the SEC, which could impose significant costs and delays on our business. Your ability to bring an action against us or against our directors and officers, or to enforce a judgment against us or them, will be limited because we are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, because we conduct substantially all of our operations in China and because the majority of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and we conduct substantially all of our operations in China through Actions Semiconductor (Zhuhai), Artek Microelectronics (Shenzhen) and Shanghai Actions Semiconductor Co., Ltd., or Shanghai Actions. Most or all of our directors and officers reside, and substantially all of the assets of those persons are located, outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the United States in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands or China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or China would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts against us or our directors and officers predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state, and it is uncertain whether such Cayman Islands or Chinese courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or China against us or our directors and officers predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state, on the ground that such provisions are penal in nature. 36 The price of our ADSs has been volatile and may continue to be volatile, which may make it difficult for holders to resell the ADSs when desired or at attractive prices. The trading price of our ADSs has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. Since our ADSs became listed in November 2005, the closing price of our ADSs on the NASDAQ Global Market has ranged from US$12.24 to US$1.34 per ADS and the last reported sale price on April 23, 2014 was US$2.33. Our ADSs price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors. The financial markets in general, and the market prices for many ADS issuers with a majority of operations in China in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. In addition to market and industry factors, the price and trading volume for our ADSs may be highly volatile for specific business reasons, including those discussed in this Risk Factors section. Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the volume and price at which our ADSs will be traded. We cannot give any assurance that these factors will not occur in the future. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to holders of our ordinary shares, including rights to acquire our securities. We cannot offer to holders of our ADSs those rights unless the securities to which the rights relate are either registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, which we refer to in this document as the Securities Act, or exempt from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. The depositary may allow rights that are not distributed or sold to lapse. In that case, you will receive no value for them. Holders of ADSs may not be able to exercise the rights of shareholders, including the right to vote as a shareholder. As a holder of our ADSs, you will not be recorded as a shareholder on the share register of the Company. Only registered holders of our ordinary shares are entitled as a matter of Cayman Islands law to exercise the rights of shareholders including voting their shares and receiving dividends and distributions. The depositary or its custodian will be the registered holder of all the ordinary shares represented by the ADSs and, thus, will be the only party entitled to exercise the rights of a shareholder with respect to those ordinary shares held by them. You will not be able to exercise the rights of a shareholder, including the right to vote, unless you withdraw the ordinary shares underlying the ADSs you hold. However, you may not be able to withdraw ordinary shares in time to be able to exercise your rights. For example, you may not know about shareholder meetings far enough in advance to withdraw those ordinary shares. If we ask for your instructions, the depositary will notify you of an upcoming vote and arrange to deliver our voting materials to you. You may not receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ordinary shares. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions. This means that you may not be able to exercise your right to vote, and there may be little you can do if the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs are not voted as you requested. 37 Except in limited circumstances, the depositary for our ADSs, in the case of poll voting will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs if you do not vote at a shareholders meeting, which could adversely affect your interests. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary, in the case of poll voting will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs at shareholders’ meetings if you do not vote, unless we notify the depositary that: • we do not wish to receive a discretionary proxy; • we think there is substantial shareholder opposition to the particular proposal; or • we think the particular proposal would have a material adverse impact on our shareholders. The effect of this discretionary proxy is that you cannot prevent our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs from being voted, absent the situations described above, and it may make it more difficult for shareholders to influence the management of our company. Holders of our ordinary shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. You may not receive dividends or other distributions on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to you. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian for our ADSs receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of our ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. We have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of our ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of our ADSs. This means that you may not receive the distributions we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us or the depositary to make them available to you. These restrictions may have a material adverse effect on the value of your ADSs. 38 You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs represented by American Depositary Receipts, or ADRs, are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of our ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it is advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. You may be subject to limitations on transfers of our ordinary shares. Our ordinary shares are transferable subject to restrictions in our articles of association. However, our board of directors may, in its absolute discretion, decline to register any transfer of any ordinary share without assigning any reasons therefor. In addition, the registration of transfers may be suspended as our board of directors may determine, for up to 45 days in any year. 