D. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all other information contained in this annual report, before making any investment decision. Any of these risks and uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, which could in turn affect the price of the Company’s shares and ADSs. 8 Table of Contents Risks Relating to the Steel Industry The demand for Ternium’s products is cyclical. The steel industry is highly cyclical in nature and is characterized by intense competition. The financial condition and results of operations of steel companies are generally affected by various factors, including fluctuations in gross domestic product, related market demand, global production capacity, tariffs, cyclicality in the industries that purchase steel products and other factors beyond Ternium’s control. The demand for and prices of Ternium’s products are directly affected by these fluctuations. For example, the Ternium companies depend on construction activity within their primary markets for a large proportion of their sales. Construction activity is cyclical and significantly affected by changes in global and local economic conditions. A prolonged recession in the construction sector, or in any of the other industry sectors that purchase Ternium’s products, in Argentina, Venezuela or Mexico, where most of Ternium’s operations are conducted and domestic sales are targeted, could result in a significant decrease in Ternium’s operational and sales performance. In addition, like other manufacturers of steel-related products, the Ternium companies have fixed and semi-fixed costs that cannot adjust rapidly to fluctuations in the demand for their products. If demand for Ternium’s products falls significantly, the impossibility of rapidly adjusting these costs could adversely affect Ternium’s profitability. Like other steel companies, Ternium is vulnerable to events affecting the steel industry as a whole, such as imbalances between supply and demand. For example, the impact of new production facilities could result in imbalances between supply and demand. Moreover, due to high start-up costs, the economics of operating a steel mill continuously could encourage mill operators to maintain high levels of output, even in times of low demand, which exacerbates the pressures on industry profit margins. Although the demand for steel has grown in recent years, the world steel industry has been affected in the past by generally sluggish demand and substantial excess worldwide steel production. As a result of the general excess capacity in the industry, the world steel industry was subject to substantial downward pricing pressure, which negatively impacted the results of steel companies in the second half of 2000 and the entire year of 2001. For example, as a result of these adverse trends, Sidor experienced significant financial losses and consequently restructured its debt in 2000 and again in 2003. International steel prices generally improved beginning in 2003. However, this new period of high prices for steel has encouraged reactivation of and investment in production capacity, and, consequently, oversupply has led to a decline in steel prices beginning in the last quarter of 2004 and continuing through 2005. Nevertheless, prices in 2005 reached generally higher levels than those prevailing in 2001 through 2003. In the first quarter of 2006, the steel prices began to recover. If an event occurs that has a negative effect on the steel industry, such as excess production capacity or increased competition in the main steel markets, Ternium’s ability to expand sales and increase production in general will be constrained, and as a result, it may not be able to maintain its recent rate of growth in revenues. Furthermore, due to the highly cyclical nature of the steel industry, recent results may not be indicative of future performance, and historical results may not be comparable to future results. Investors should not rely on the results of a single period, particularly a period of peak prices, as an indication of Ternium’s annual results or future performance. Demand for Ternium’s products could decline as a result of fluctuations in Ternium’s customers’ inventory levels which could, in turn, cause a decline in Ternium’s sales and revenue. Inventory levels of steel products held by companies that purchase Ternium’s products can vary significantly from period to period. These fluctuations can temporarily affect the demand for Ternium’s products, as customers draw from existing inventory during periods of low investment in construction and the other industry sectors that purchase Ternium’s products and accumulate inventory during periods of high investment and, as a result, these companies may not purchase additional steel products or maintain their current purchasing volume. Accordingly, Ternium may not be able to increase or maintain its current levels of sales volumes or prices. Price fluctuations or shortages in the supply of raw materials and energy could adversely affect Ternium’s profits. Like other manufacturers of steel-related products, Ternium’s operations require substantial amounts of raw materials and energy from domestic and foreign suppliers. In particular, the Ternium companies consume large 9 Table of Contents quantities of iron ore, scrap, ferroalloys, electricity, coal, natural gas, oxygen and other gases in operating their blast and electric furnaces. The availability and price of a significant portion of the raw materials and energy Ternium requires are subject to market conditions and government regulation affecting supply and demand. For example, shortages of natural gas in Argentina and the consequent supply restrictions imposed by the government could lead to higher costs of production and eventually to production cutbacks at Ternium’s facilities in Argentina. See “—Risks Relating to the Countries in Which We Operate—Argentina—Restrictions on the supply of energy to Ternium’s operations in Argentina could curtail Ternium’s production and negatively impact Ternium’s results of operations.” In the past, Ternium has been able to procure sufficient supplies of raw materials and energy inputs to meet its production needs; however, it could be unable to procure adequate supplies in the future. Any protracted interruption, discontinuation or other disruption of the supply of principal inputs to the Ternium companies (including as a result of strikes, lockouts or other problems) would result in lost sales and would have a material adverse effect on Ternium’s business. For further information related to raw materials and energy requirements, see Item 4. “Information on the Company—Raw Materials and Energy.” Furthermore, estimated amounts of reserves of iron ore from Hylsamex’s mines or from those of Ternium’s suppliers may not be recovered, and these suppliers may revise their reserve estimates based on actual production experience. Reserves may not conform to geological, metallurgical or other expectations, and the volume and quality of iron ore recovered may be below the expected levels. As the steel industry is highly competitive with respect to price, product quality, customer service and technological advances, worldwide competition in the steel industry has frequently limited the ability of steel producers to raise the price of finished products to recover higher raw material and energy costs. Moreover, in some cases, the governments of some countries are reluctant (as is currently the case in Argentina) to accept price increases of products which are used as raw materials for the manufacture of other goods, as such increases could ultimately impact the inflation rate and in the prices paid by “end consumers” of those goods (e.g., tinplate for cans). Accordingly, increased purchase costs of raw materials and energy might not be recoverable through increased product prices, which would reduce Ternium’s gross profit and revenues. Furthermore, limited availability could cause Ternium to curtail production, which could adversely affect Ternium’s sales and profitability. For further information related to raw materials, see Item 4. “Information on the Company—Raw Materials and Energy.” The Ternium companies depend on a limited number of key suppliers. The Ternium companies depend on certain key suppliers for their requirements of raw materials and energy. The Ternium companies have entered into long-term contracts for the supply of a substantial portion of their principal inputs, and it is expected that they will maintain and, depending on the circumstances, renew these contracts. However, if any of the key suppliers fails to deliver or there is a failure to renew these contracts, the Ternium companies could face limited access to raw materials and energy, higher costs and delays resulting from the need to obtain their raw material and energy requirements from other suppliers. For example, expenditures for iron ore constitute one of Sidor’s largest individual raw material costs. Currently, Sidor purchases all of its iron ore from a single producer in Venezuela at agreed-upon formula prices under a long-term supply agreement expiring in 2017. If Sidor is not able to continue this long-term relationship or to continue purchasing iron ore from such supplier at the agreed-upon prices, it could be unable to obtain sufficient quantities of iron ore from alternative suppliers at prices comparable to those offered by its current supplier and, accordingly, its gross profit could decline. Following a public announcement by the Venezuelan government that sought to pressure Sidor to renegotiate the terms of the agreement for the supply of iron ore, as permitted under the contract’s hardship provision, on November 11, 2005, Sidor and CVG Ferrominera del Orinoco, C.A. (“FMO”) amended the pricing terms of the contract. The amended formula increased Sidor’s cost of iron ore from approximately USD19 to approximately USD31 per ton in fiscal year 2006. Furthermore, under the revised contract, the pricing formula may be adjusted every two years, on the basis of public policy, Sidor’s competitiveness and the evolution of international steel prices. See “—Risks Relating to the Countries in Which We Operate—Venezuela” and Item 4. “Information on the Company—Raw Materials and Energy—Venezuela—Iron Ore,” “—Electricity” and “—Natural gas.” 10 Table of Contents Intense competition could cause Ternium to lose its share in certain markets and adversely affect its sales and revenues. Ternium’s subsidiaries have a substantial market share in their countries of operation where they maintain long-term relationships with their clients. Any fall in demand in these markets due to weak economic conditions or other reasons could adversely affect the operations of these subsidiaries and could redirect sales and the focus of Ternium’s business to other markets. Competition in the global and regional markets could also be affected by antidumping and countervailing duties imposed on some producers in major steel markets and by the removal of barriers to imported products in those countries where the Ternium companies direct their sales. For further information please refer to Item 4. “Information on the Company—Regulation—Trade regulations.” Also, Ternium’s foreign competitors would benefit from any fall in the value of their domestic currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, reducing their operating costs and making their products more competitive. The market for Ternium’s steel products is highly competitive, particularly with respect to price, quality and service. In both the global and regional markets, Ternium competes against other global and local producers of flat and long steel products, which in some cases have greater financial and operating resources. In addition, several competitors are implementing modernization programs and expanding their production capacity for products that could compete with those of Ternium. To the extent that these producers become more efficient, Ternium could confront stronger competition and could fail to preserve its current shares of the relevant geographic or product markets. See Item 4. “Information on the Company—Competition.” Moreover, competition from alternative materials (including plastic, aluminum, ceramics, glass, wood and concrete) could adversely affect the demand for, and consequently the market prices of, certain steel products, and, accordingly, could affect the sales volume and revenue of Ternium and its subsidiaries. In addition, there has been a trend in recent years toward steel industry consolidation among Ternium’s competitors, and smaller competitors in the steel market today could become larger competitors in the future. For example, Aceralia, Arbed and Usinor merged in February 2002 to create Arcelor, and LNM Holdings and Ispat International merged in October 2004 to create Mittal Steel, which subsequently acquired International Steel Group. Furthermore, in January 2006, Mittal Steel announced a tender offer to acquire Arcelor, which terms were improved in May 2006. Also, in May 2006, Arcelor announced plans to merge with Severstal. Competition from global steel manufacturers with expanded production capacity such as Mittal Steel and Arcelor, and new market entrants, especially from China, could result in significant price competition, declining margins and reductions in revenue. Ternium’s larger competitors could use their resources against Ternium in a variety of ways, including by making additional acquisitions, investing more aggressively in product development and capacity and displacing demand for Ternium’s products in certain markets. As a result of such increased competition, Ternium may also lose market share and its sales and revenues could decline. The steel industry is capital intensive and if Ternium is not able to obtain the capital resources required to continue to modernize and upgrade its facilities, Ternium’s results of operations and growth prospects may be adversely affected. The production of steel is capital intensive and some of Ternium’s competitors have recently announced plans to make substantial investments in new equipment and to upgrade existing production facilities. In order to maintain its competitive strengths, Ternium would typically be expected to continue to modernize its production processes, plant and equipment, which would require on-going capital investments. Moreover, as a result of its acquisitions and internal growth, Ternium’s business may require capital expenditures in the future. Ternium may not have adequate sources of funds for any future capital expenditures, and additional financing, if needed, may not be available to Ternium or, if available, may not be obtained on terms acceptable to Ternium and within the limitations contained in Ternium’s existing debt instruments or any future financings. Failure to obtain the required funds could delay or prevent the completion of some of Ternium’s capital projects, which could result in decreased sales. 11 Table of Contents Risks Relating to our Business If Ternium does not successfully implement its business strategy, its opportunities for growth and its competitive position could be adversely affected. Ternium plans to continue implementing its business strategy of further integrating the operating and marketing activities of the Ternium companies, developing value-added products, providing services to a wider range of clients in the local and export markets and continuing to pursue strategic acquisition opportunities. Any of these components or Ternium’s overall business strategy could be delayed or abandoned or could cost more than anticipated, any of which could impact its competitive position and reduce its revenue and profitability. For example, Ternium could fail to develop its commercial network and lose market share in its export markets. Even if Ternium successfully implements its business strategy, it may not yield the desired goals. Recent and future acquisitions, significant investments and strategic alliances could disrupt Ternium’s operations and adversely affect its profits. Ternium may not realize the benefits it expects from these business decisions. In the past, Ternium has acquired interests in various companies and engaged in strategic alliances, such as the acquisition of Sidor, the largest steel company of Venezuela, the participation of 49.8% in Matesi, Materiales Siderúrgicos S.A. (“Matesi”), an iron ore briquette producer that supplies Sidor with part of its raw material requirements, the acquisition of Hylsamex, one of the main steel producers in Mexico, the acquisition of the assets and facilities of Acindar Industria Argentina de Aceros S.A. (“Acindar”), related to the production of welded steel pipes in the province of Santa Fe in Argentina, the acquisition of 100% of the issued and outstanding shares of Impeco S.A. (“Impeco”), which in turn owned a plant located in the province of San Luis in Argentina, and the acquisition of the 50% interest not previously owned by Hylsamex in Acerex S.A. de C.V. (“Acerex”), a service center in Mexico that processes steel to produce short length and thin steel sheets in various widths. We will continue to actively consider other strategic acquisitions and partnerships from time to time. We must necessarily base any assessment of potential acquisitions and alliances on assumptions with respect to operations, profitability and other matters that may subsequently prove to be incorrect. Ternium’s future acquisitions, significant investments and alliances may not perform in accordance with our expectations and could adversely affect our operations and profitability. Furthermore, Ternium may fail to find suitable acquisition targets or fail to consummate its acquisitions under favorable conditions, or could be unable to successfully integrate any acquired businesses into its operations. Although Ternium has begun taking steps to integrate its newly acquired businesses into its operations since the consummation the acquisitions, it may not be able to do so successfully and within a short period of time. Ternium faces a variety of uncertainties and challenges relating to the acquisition and integration of its newly acquired businesses including, but not limited to: • achieving expected synergies; • loss of key employees; • difficulties integrating operational and financial systems, which could delay the integration efforts and anticipated cost savings; • lower than expected sales and profitability returns that may not justify the size of Ternium’s investment; • exposure to potential liabilities, including liabilities related to activities that predate the acquisition, for which Ternium will not be indemnified and which could be material; and 12 Table of Contents • the possible decline in the market price of our ADSs, if Ternium does not achieve the perceived benefits and anticipated cost savings of the acquisition as rapidly or to the extent anticipated. These risks, and the fact that integration of the acquired businesses will require a significant amount of the time and resources of Ternium’s management and employees, could disrupt Ternium’s ongoing business and could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Ternium may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if it must reassess its goodwill or other amortizable intangible assets. In accordance with IFRS, management must test all of Ternium’s assets, including goodwill, annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indicators of impairment, and recognize a non-cash charge in an amount equal to the impairment. In connection with the acquisition of Hylsamex completed on August 22, 2005, Ternium recorded USD399.7 million in goodwill as of December 31, 2005. If Ternium’s management were to determine in the future that the goodwill from its acquisition of Hylsamex was impaired, Ternium would be required to recognize a non-cash charge to write down the value of this goodwill, which would adversely affect Ternium’s financial condition and results of operations. Credit agreements and other instruments of indebtedness of Ternium and its subsidiaries contain covenants and financial tests which could restrict their activities and cross-payment-default provisions which could result in the acceleration of Ternium’s indebtedness. The debt contracts of Ternium and its subsidiaries, including the financing agreements entered into in connection with the acquisition of Hylsamex, contain a number of significant covenants that limit their ability to, among other things: • pay dividends to their shareholders or make other restricted payments; • administer their cash flow; • grant certain liens; • borrow additional money or prepay principal or interest on subordinated debt; • change their business or amend certain significant agreements; • effect a change of control; and • merge, acquire or consolidate with another company, make additional investments or dispose of their assets. These contracts also require Ternium and its subsidiaries to meet certain financial covenants, ratios and other tests, which could limit their operational flexibility and could prevent Ternium from taking advantage of business opportunities as they arise, growing its business or competing effectively. Moreover, a failure by Ternium and its subsidiaries to comply with applicable financial measures could result in defaults under those agreements or instruments. Ternium and its subsidiaries are in compliance with all of their financial covenants, ratios and tests. In addition, if Ternium or any of its subsidiaries failed to meet its payment obligations under their financial agreements, debt under that agreement could become immediately due and payable, and could trigger cross-payment-default provisions contained in the Ternium Credit Facility and in certain of the Ternium companies’ other credit agreements and debt instruments, which would permit their creditors to accelerate the indebtedness evidenced thereby. If this occurs, Ternium may not be able to pay its debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if new financing is available, it could entail terms that are not as favorable to Ternium and could limit the cash flow available for its operations, place it at a competitive disadvantage and limit its ability to pursue its business strategy. 13 Table of Contents In addition, these credit agreements contain indemnification provisions. For information concerning these credit agreements and debt instruments, see Item 5. “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Principal Borrowings.” Ternium’s related party transactions with members of the Techint Group may not always be on terms as favorable as those that could be obtained from unaffiliated third parties. Some of Ternium’s sales and purchases are made to and from other Techint Group companies. These sales and purchases are primarily made in the ordinary course of business, and Ternium believes that they are made on terms no less favorable than those it could obtain from unaffiliated third parties. Ternium will continue to engage in related party transactions in the future, and these transactions may not be on terms as favorable as those that could be obtained from unaffiliated third parties. For information concerning the principal transactions between Ternium and related parties, see Item 7. “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions.” Ternium’s transactions with certain business partners and shareholders may not always be on terms as favorable as those that could be obtained from unaffiliated third parties. Some of Ternium’s sales and purchases are made to and from certain partners and shareholders of its subsidiaries. For example, Sidor has a variety of trade and services-related contractual relationships with entities owned by its minority shareholder, the government of Venezuela, including the purchase of iron ore from, and the sale of pellets to, the state-owned steel company Corporación Venezolana de Guayana (“CVG”). Moreover, Sivensa, a Venezuelan company that owns an indirect minority stake in the Company, is one of the largest domestic purchasers, through one of its affiliates, of Sidor’s flat steel products. Although we believe that each of its business relationships with business partners and shareholders is on an arm’s length basis, any of these arrangements may not provide terms to Ternium that are substantially similar to, or as favorable as, those that might have been obtained from unaffiliated third parties. Labor disputes at Ternium’s operating subsidiaries could result in work stoppages and disruptions to Ternium’s operations. A substantial majority of Ternium’s employees at its manufacturing subsidiaries are represented by labor unions and are covered by collective bargaining or similar agreements, which are subject to periodic renegotiation. Strikes or work stoppages could occur prior to or during the negotiations leading to new collective bargaining agreements, during wage and benefits negotiations or, occasionally, during other periods for other reasons. The various measures that Ternium’s subsidiaries Siderar and Hylsamex have taken in order to become more competitive have not resulted in significant labor unrest. However, its subsidiary Sidor has from time to time suffered labor disruptions, including the last plant stoppages in 2003 and 2004. Ternium could suffer additional plant stoppages or strikes as a result of future work force reductions in connection with its productivity improvement and cost reduction plans. Ternium may not be able to maintain a satisfactory relationship with its employees, and any future stoppage, strike, disruption of operations or new collective bargaining agreements could result in lost sales and could increase Ternium’s costs. For more information on labor relations, see Item 6. “Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Employees.” The Ternium companies’ ability to hedge risks could be limited by contractual and regulatory restrictions. The international operations of the Ternium companies expose them to a variety of financial risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency, exchange rates and interest rates. A portion of Ternium’s business is carried out in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As a result of this foreign currency exposure, exchange rate fluctuations impact the Ternium companies’ results as reported in their income statements in the form of both translation risk and transaction risk. In addition, interest rate movements create a degree of risk by affecting the amount of the Ternium companies’ interest payments. Other than those imposed by legal or monetary control entities (like the Argentine Central Bank or the exchange and transfer control entity CADIVI in Venezuela), Ternium’s subsidiaries (other than Sidor) have no restrictions on the use of derivative agreements for hedging purposes. Sidor, however, is limited by both contractual and regulatory restrictions for these types of derivatives 14 Table of Contents contracts. These restrictions and regulations could cause the Ternium companies to be more vulnerable to market fluctuations than they would be if their hedging activities were unlimited. In the ordinary course of business, the Ternium companies (other than Sidor) from time to time enter into exchange rate and interest rate derivatives agreements to manage their exposure to exchange rate and interest rate changes. Future regulatory or financial restrictions in the countries where Ternium operates may affect its ability to hedge its exposure to financial risks, and thus cause an adverse impact on Ternium’s results of operations and financial condition. Ternium’s results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by movements in exchange rates. The revenues of the Ternium companies are primarily U.S. dollar-denominated (other than revenues from domestic sales in Mexico), while a significant portion of their costs are denominated in local currency in the markets where they operate. As a result, movements in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against these local currencies can have a significant impact on Ternium’s revenue, results and financial condition. A rise in the value of the local currencies relative to the U.S. dollar will increase Ternium’s relative production costs, thereby creating a competitive disadvantage for Ternium relative to some of its competitors. Conversely, a decrease in the value of the local currencies relative to the U.S. dollar will decrease their relative production costs. For instance, during 2004, Siderar benefited from a gain of USD10.5 million due to an exchange rate depreciation of 1.4%. During the same period, an exchange rate depreciation of 20.0% resulted in a loss of USD118.4 million for Amazonia, while an exchange rate appreciation of 0.8% resulted in a loss of USD10.6 million for Hylsamex. Volatility in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the Argentine peso and between the U.S. dollar and the Mexican peso as well as changes to the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Venezuelan bolívar are likely to continue in the future. Such fluctuations will affect Ternium’s production costs, revenues and financial results. A significant rise in interest rates could adversely affect Ternium’s business and results. Changes in interest rates affect the amount of Ternium’s interest payments as well as the value of its fixed rate debt. Most of Ternium’s long-term borrowings are at variable rates, and accordingly, Ternium is exposed to the risk of increased interest expense in the event of a significant rise in interest rates. Moreover, a substantial rise in interest rates in developed economies such as the United States could adversely affect the economies in the countries where Ternium conducts its operations and markets its products and would increase Ternium’s debt service requirements for its floating rate debt. For example, as of March 31, 2006 Ternium’s outstanding variable interest rate indebtedness amounted approximately to USD1,556 million. For each 1% increase in interest rates, Ternium’s annual interest expenses will increase by USD15.6 million. However, Ternium and its subsidiaries have entered into derivative swap contracts for a total notional amount of USD450 million in order to mitigate this risk. For further information, see Item 11. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk—Interest Rate Risk”. Risks Relating to the Structure of the Company As a holding company, our ability to pay dividends and obtain financing depends on the results of operations and financial condition of our subsidiaries and could be restricted by legal, contractual or other limitations. We conduct all of our operations through our subsidiaries. Dividends or other intercompany transfers of funds from our subsidiaries are expected to be our primary source of funds to pay our expenses, debt service and dividends. We will not be conducting operations at the holding company level, and any expenses that we incur, in excess of minimum levels, that cannot be otherwise financed will reduce amounts available for distribution to our shareholders. This could result in us being unable to pay any dividends on our ADSs. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends and make other payments to us will depend on their results of operations and financial conditions and could be, including in the circumstances described below, restricted by, among other things, applicable corporate and other laws and regulations, including those imposing foreign exchange 15 Table of Contents controls, and agreements and commitments of such subsidiaries. In addition, our ability to pay dividends is subject to legal and other requirements and restrictions at the holding company level. For example, we may only make distributions out of net profits, retained earnings and available reserves and premiums, each as defined under Luxembourg regulations. Moreover, our ability and the ability of the Ternium companies to pay dividends and make other payments depend in part on contractual arrangements relating to the distribution of profits. The credit agreement entered into to finance the acquisition of Hylsamex contains limitations on our ability to declare or pay dividends until 2010. These debt covenants prohibit us from declaring or paying any dividends until we have paid the full amount due on the first anniversary of the Ternium Credit Facility and impose limits on the funds available for payment of dividends. In addition, under the terms of its restructuring agreements, Sidor may not pay dividends until the earlier of (i) August 2015 or (ii) the prepayment in full of certain obligations arising from the debt restructuring that took place in 2003. As of the date of this annual report, such indebetedness amounted to less than USD200 million. For further information about the impact of such restrictions and covenants, please see “—Risks Relating to our Business—Credit agreements and other instruments of indebtedness of Ternium and its subsidiaries contain covenants and financial tests which could restrict their activities and cross-payment-default provisions which could result in the acceleration of Ternium’s indebtedness” above and Item 8. “Financial Information—Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Dividend Policy.” The Company’s controlling shareholder may be able to take actions that do not reflect the will or best interests of other shareholders. As of May 31, 2006, San Faustín beneficially owned 59.06% of our outstanding voting stock. San Faustín is controlled by Rocca & Partners. As a result, Rocca & Partners is indirectly able to elect a substantial majority of the members of our board of directors and has the power to determine the outcome of most actions requiring shareholder approval, including, subject to the requirements of Luxembourg law, the payment of dividends by us. The decisions of the controlling shareholder, may not reflect the will or best interests of other shareholders. For example, our articles of association permit our board of directors to waive, limit or suppress preemptive rights in certain cases. Accordingly, our controlling shareholder may cause our board of directors to approve an issuance of shares for consideration without preemptive rights, thereby diluting the minority interest in the Company. See “Risk Factors—Risks Related to our ADSs—Holders of our shares and ADSs in the United States may not be able to exercise preemptive rights in certain cases.” Remaining minority interests in the Company’s subsidiaries could delay or impede our ability to complete our strategy. We do not own one hundred percent of the interests in our subsidiaries. As of May 31, 2006, approximately 36.4% of Siderar was publicly held and approximately 7.5% was held by certain Siderar employees. As of the same date, approximately 20.7% of Sidor was held by the Venezuelan government and Banco de Desarrollo Económico y Social de Venezuela, or BANDES (a bank owned by the Venezuelan government), and approximately 19.6% was held by certain Sidor employees. Also as of the same date, 0.2% of Hylsamex was owned by minority shareholders. To the extent that other interests in Siderar, Sidor and Hylsamex remain outstanding, those remaining minority shareholders could prevent Ternium from taking actions that, while beneficial to us at the holding company level, might not be beneficial at the level of any of our individual subsidiaries. As a result, we could be delayed or impeded in the full implementation of our strategy or the maximization of Ternium’s competitive strengths. We will be subject to a capital duty on any capital increase in connection with our corporate reorganization if the relief obtained from the Luxembourg tax authorities is successfully challenged. Under Luxembourg law, any increase in the capital of a Luxembourg company is subject to a 1% capital duty. Capital contributions to a Luxembourg company involving all of the assets and liabilities of a company organized in a European Union, or EU, member country are exempt from such capital duty. Our corporate reorganization, consisting of a series of such contributions of assets and liabilities by EU companies, including ISL (which is organized in Gibraltar), to the Company had qualified for such exemption and we obtained confirmation from the Luxembourg tax authorities on the availability of the exemption with respect to each such contribution. However, if the relief granted is successfully challenged, we will be subject to a 1% capital duty on the amount of the corresponding capital increase, plus any applicable penalties. 16 Table of Contents A current EU investigation could lead Luxembourg to change the tax rules applicable to 1929 holding companies and result in a higher tax burden on us in the future. We were established as a société anonyme holding under Luxembourg’s 1929 holding company regime. The 1929 holding companies are exempt from certain business taxes on earnings and on payments. In the past, 1929 holdings were questioned by the EU as a “harmful tax practice”. As a result, in 2005 Luxembourg amended the holding company regime to eliminate the exemption with respect to income not previously subject to comparable tax. The new regime will not apply to pre-existing companies, including us, until 2011. On February 8, 2006, the European Commission launched a formal investigation into Luxembourg’s 1929 legislation exempting holdings and financial companies from corporate taxation. The new EU investigation seeks to determine whether the 1929 regime is contrary to the EC Treaty “state aid” rules. The EU investigation is directed against the Luxembourg government, not against the relevant holding companies. If an investigation finds the tax exemptions are a form of “state aid” in violation of EU law, the EU can demand that Luxembourg change the applicable tax rules, and any such change could in turn result in a higher tax burden on us in the future. For further information, see Item 10. “Additional Information—Taxation—Holding company status”. Risks Relating to the Countries in Which We Operate Negative economic, political and regulatory developments in certain markets where Ternium has a significant portion of its operations and assets could hurt Ternium’s financial condition, revenues and sales volume and disrupt its manufacturing operations, thereby adversely affecting its results of operations and financial condition. The results of Ternium’s operations are subject to the risks of doing business in emerging markets and have been, and could in the future be, affected from time to time to varying degrees by political developments, events, laws and regulations, such as forced divestiture of assets; restrictions on production, imports and exports; interruptions to essential energy inputs; exchange and/or transfer restrictions; inflation; devaluation; war or other international conflicts; civil unrest and local security concerns that threaten the safe operation of company facilities; direct and indirect price controls; tax increases; changes in interpretation or application of tax laws and other retroactive tax claims or challenges; expropriation of property; changes in laws, norms or regulations; cancellation of contract rights; delays or denial of government approvals; and environmental regulations. Both the likelihood of such occurrences and their overall effect upon Ternium vary greatly from country to country and are not predictable. Realization of these risks could have an adverse impact on the results of operations and financial condition of Ternium’s subsidiaries located in the affected country. Argentina Ternium has significant manufacturing operations and assets located in Argentina and a significant portion of its sales are made in Argentina. Ternium’s main revenues from its Argentine operations, therefore, are indirectly related to market conditions in Argentina and to changes in Argentina’s gross domestic product, or GDP, and per capita disposable income. Accordingly, Ternium’s business could be materially and adversely affected by economic, political and regulatory developments in Argentina. Economic and political instability resulted in a severe recession in 2002, which has had a lasting effect on Argentina’s economy. In 2001, a sustained period of economic contraction culminated in severe social, monetary and financial turmoil and the resignation of President Fernando de la Rúa on December 21, 2001, amid wide-spread and violent demonstrations. An interim administration adopted a series of emergency measures affecting Argentina’s monetary and fiscal policies, including the end of the decade-old peg of the Argentine peso to the U.S. dollar and obligatory unwinding of dollar-denominated contracts. As a result, the Argentine pesos experienced significant devaluation in 2002. 17 Table of Contents Presidential elections held on April 2003 were eventually won by Nestor Kirchner with the smallest plurality on record. Since taking office, however, President Kirchner has enjoyed high levels of popular support and the economy has recovered to levels last attained in 1998, with growth of the country’s gross domestic product, or GDP, averaging 9% per annum in the three-year period from 2003 - 2005. During 2005, the Argentine government restructured most of the country’s defaulted debt. As a result of the sustained economic growth, unemployment rates have dropped to 10.1% in 2005 from a peak of 24.1% in 2002. Furthermore, the Argentine economy continues to benefit strongly from high international commodity prices, low international interest rates and high levels of global liquidity. Despite the progress to date, several significant issues remain to be addressed by the government. Inflation increased significantly during 2005 to 12%, and the economy has been affected by supply constraints as capacity idled during the economic crisis has been utilized. Capital investment in general has lagged due to political uncertainties caused by the government’s increasing anti-business tone and its inclination to resort to price controls, nationalizations and other measures limiting the private conduct of business. Economic conditions in Argentina have deteriorated rapidly in the past and may deteriorate rapidly in the future. Should the current favorable conditions reverse, inflation become a problem or supply constraints hinder future growth, the Argentine economy may not continue to grow at current rates. Our business and operations in Argentina could be adversely affected by rapidly changing economic conditions in Argentina or by the Argentine government’s policy response to such conditions. Siderar’s sales in the domestic market were severely affected by Argentina’s recession during 2001 and 2002. Domestic sales as a percentage of total sales decreased to 47% in 2001 and 35% in 2002. The domestic economic recovery during 2003, 2004 and 2005, with sustained growth in industrial activity, agriculture, construction and a significant improvement in the automobile industry, increased Siderar’s domestic sales as a percentage of total sales to 55% in 2003, 72% in 2004 and 71% in 2005. Nevertheless, many of Argentina’s economic problems remain unresolved. If an inflationary environment were to reappear, inflation could have a negative impact on the revenues of Ternium’s subsidiary in Argentina when they are restated in constant currency. Thus, even if Ternium’s revenues were to rise in nominal terms, its reported revenues would decrease unless the rate of increase in nominal revenues is at least as great as the rate of inflation. The Argentine economy may not continue to experience growth. Economic conditions in Argentina have deteriorated rapidly in the past and could deteriorate rapidly in the future and Ternium’s business and operations in Argentina could be adversely affected by rapidly changing economic conditions in Argentina and by the Argentine government’s response to such conditions. Argentine government policies will likely have a significant effect on the economy and, as a result, Ternium’s Argentine operations. The Argentine government has historically exercised significant influence over the economy. Since December 2001, the Argentine government has promulgated numerous, far-reaching laws and regulations that affect the economy in significant respects. Laws and regulations currently governing the economy could change in the future, and any such changes could adversely affect Ternium’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The Argentine Central Bank has imposed restrictions on the transfer of funds outside of Argentina and other exchange controls in the past and may do so in the future, which could prevent Ternium from paying dividends or other amounts from cash generated by its Argentine operations. In 2001 and 2002 and until February 7, 2003, the Argentine Central Bank restricted Argentine individuals and corporations from transferring U.S. dollars abroad without the prior approval of the Argentine Central Bank. In 2003 and 2004, the government reduced some of these restrictions, including those requiring the Argentine Central Bank’s prior authorization for the transfer of funds abroad in order to pay principal and interest on debt obligations. Nevertheless, significant government controls and restrictions remain in place, and the Argentine government may impose new restrictions on foreign exchange in the future. On June 10, 2005, the Argentine government issued Decree No. 616/2005 establishing certain restrictions on capital inflows into Argentina. The existing controls and 18 Table of Contents restrictions, and any additional restrictions of this kind that may be imposed in the future, could impair Ternium’s ability to transfer funds generated by Ternium’s Argentine operations in U.S. dollars outside Argentina to fund the payment of dividends or other amounts and to undertake investments and other activities that require payments in U.S. dollars. Furthermore, these restrictions could affect Ternium’s ability to finance its investments and operations in Argentina. In addition, Ternium is currently required to repatriate U.S. dollars collected in connection with exports from Argentina (including U.S. dollars obtained through advance payment and pre-financing facilities) into Argentina and convert them into Argentine pesos at the market-based floating exchange rate applicable on the conversion date. This requirement and any similar requirement that may be imposed in the future, subjects Ternium to the risk of losses arising from an abrupt devaluation of the Argentine peso. Despite the results of the recent restructuring of its debt with private creditors, Argentina is limited in its ability to obtain financing in the future, which may restrict its ability to implement reforms and create the conditions for sustained economic growth and, as a result Siderar may be unable to obtain financing. In 2005, the Argentine government restructured its public debt with private creditors, with approximately 76% of its creditors surrendering their claims in exchange for new bonds worth approximately USD0.35 on the dollar. However, at this time it is impossible to determine what effect the restructuring will have, if any, on investor confidence or on the Argentine economy generally. In addition, as a consequence of the restructuring, Argentina will still have obligations outstanding with bondholders of approximately USD54.8 billion (approximately USD35.3 billion under the new bonds plus approximately USD19.5 billion under the old bonds not tendered for exchange) and will have to withstand any legal actions that may be filed by bondholders who did not accept the Argentine government’s exchange offer. On January 4, 2006, the Argentine government prepaid of all of its outstanding obligations to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), amounting to approximately USD9.5 billion. This prepayment, together with Argentina’s limited access to foreign capital, could curtail its ability to assess international credit markets. To date, Argentina has experienced difficulty and greater costs when accessing the international credit markets, given its past default, its failure to restructure the entire amount of its existing sovereign debt and in spite of the recovery of economic and financial conditions. If Argentina is not able to honor its outstanding financial agreements, or if it does not obtain the required financing to implement the economic and political reforms necessary to obtain sustainable development and GDP growth, the resulting economic environment could negatively affect Ternium’s operating costs, sales and results of operations. In particular, to the extent Siderar is not able to maintain high levels of export, Siderar’s ability to obtain financing could be limited. The economic and financial crisis, the deepening of the economic recession and the restrictions on external debt payments during 2002, severely limited the ability of Argentine companies to gain access to bank loans and capital markets, affecting the financial situation of Ternium’s operations in Argentina and preventing the normal renewal of credit facilities at maturity. In this context, during 2002, Siderar initiated discussions with its creditors aimed at adapting principal payments to the flow of funds generated by operations, on the basis of a manageable schedule of maturities, as well as to obtain time until the economic and political situation had stabilized, enabling it to normalize its access to sources of finance. As a result of such negotiations, Siderar signed an agreement with its creditors for the restructuring of the terms and conditions of its financial debt for a total of approximately USD473.6 million. During 2004, Siderar’s favorable financial situation allowed it to settle in full its restructured debt at the end of the third quarter, obtaining the release of all guaranties and lifting of restrictive conditions included in the loan contracts. The Argentine government has increased taxes on Ternium’s operations in Argentina, and could further increase the fiscal burden on its operations in Argentina in the future. Since 1992, the Argentine government has not permitted the application of an inflation adjustment on the value of fixed assets for tax purposes. Since the substantial devaluation of the Argentine peso in 2002, the amounts that the Argentine tax authorities permit Ternium to deduct as depreciation for its past investments in plant, property 19 Table of Contents and equipment have been substantially reduced, resulting in a higher effective income tax charge. In addition, in 2002, the Argentine government imposed a 5% tax on the export of manufactured products. If the Argentine government continues to increase the tax burden on Ternium’s operations in Argentina, Ternium’s results of operation and financial condition could be adversely affected. Restrictions on the supply of energy to Ternium’s operations in Argentina could curtail Ternium’s production and negatively impact Ternium’s results of operations. As a result of several years of recession, the forced conversion into Argentine pesos at the one-to-one exchange rate and the subsequent freeze of gas and electricity tariffs, there has been a lack of investment in gas and electricity supply and transport capacity in Argentina in recent years. Over the course of the last several years, demand for natural gas has increased substantially, driven by a recovery in economic conditions and low prices in comparison with alternative fuel sources. The Argentine government is taking a number of measures to alleviate the short-term impact of supply restrictions on residential and industrial users, including measures to limit the growth of residential consumption, to increase the price of compressed natural gas and to import natural gas from Bolivia, electricity from Brazil and fuel oil from Venezuela. It has announced several measures intended to address the situation in the medium- and long-term including allowing natural gas prices for industrial users to rise and implementing a tax increase on the export of crude oil and a new tax on the export of natural gas. In addition, the Argentine government has created a new state-owned energy company, which would in turn fund, or otherwise promote, investments in expanding existing pipeline transportation capacity and building new pipelines and additional power generation capacity. If the measures that the Argentine government is taking to alleviate the short-term impact of the crisis prove to be insufficient, or if the investment that is required to increase natural gas generation, energy production and transportation capacity and power generation capacity over the medium- and long-term fails to materialize on a timely basis, Ternium’s production in Argentina (or that of its main suppliers) could be curtailed and Ternium’s sales and revenues could decline. Although Ternium is taking measures, like the purchase of alternative fuels such as fuel oil, to limit the effect of supply restrictions on its operations in Argentina, such efforts may not be sufficient to avoid any impact on Ternium’s production in Argentina (or that of its main suppliers) and Ternium may not be able to similarly limit the effect of future supply restrictions. See “—Risks Relating to the Steel Industry—Price fluctuations or shortages in the supply of raw materials and energy could adversely affect Ternium’s profits” above. Venezuela Ternium has manufacturing operations and assets located in Venezuela and a significant portion of its sales are made in Venezuela. Ternium’s main revenues derived from its Venezuelan operations, therefore, are indirectly related to market conditions in Venezuela and to changes in its GDP and per capita disposable income. Ternium’s business could be materially and adversely affected by economic, political and regulatory developments in Venezuela. In prior years, events in Venezuela produced significant social and political tensions, which could worsen and have an adverse effect on Venezuela’s economy. In the past several years, Venezuela has experienced intense political and social turmoil involving groups that oppose and those that support the Chávez administration. Between December 2001 and February 2003, opposition groups have staged four nationwide strikes, the most recent of which began in 2002 and at times halted a substantial part of the operations of the Venezuelan oil industry before it ended in February 2003. The strikes were accompanied by increased capital drains, loss of bank deposits and reduced tax revenues. Although the political scene remains divided, the Chávez administration, through coalitions with other political parties, effectively controls a majority in the Asamblea Nacional, or the National Assembly, as well as most state governments, and has broad support among the poorer segments of Venezuelan society. On August 15, 2004, Venezuelan citizens voted on a recall referendum in accordance with the Venezuelan constitution regarding the removal of President Chávez from office for the remainder of his term. Approximately 59% of the voters voted in favor of retaining President Chávez. 20 Table of Contents State and local elections were held in Venezuela on October 31, 2004. Candidates supported by President Chávez won 21 of the 23 gubernatorial elections, with the two remaining governships being retained by opposition parties. In November 2004, the National Assembly began the process of appointing 17 new justices to the Supreme Tribunal of Justice, or TSJ, in accordance with a law that allows judges to be appointed by a simple majority if the National Assembly holds three sessions and lawmakers fail to reach the necessary qualified majority of two-thirds of the National Assembly. Parliamentary elections were held on December 4, 2005. As a result of such elections, candidates supported by President Chávez currently hold 114 of the 167 seats in the National Assembly. Despite efforts to organize political opposition against his administration, President Chávez is expected to serve the remainder of his current presidential term, which ends in 2006. If significant domestic instability in Venezuela reemerges and affects political and economic conditions in Venezuela, Ternium’s business in Venezuela and, accordingly, its financial results could be negatively affected. The Venezuelan government could take measures related to the Venezuelan steel industry in general, or related to its minority stake in Sidor, that could affect Ternium’s operations in Venezuela. The Venezuelan government traditionally has played a central role in the development of Venezuela’s steel industry and has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over many other aspects of the Venezuelan economy. Venezuelan governmental actions have had in the past, and could have in the future, significant effects on the financial condition and results of operations of Venezuelan companies and on the ability of Venezuelan companies to make capital expenditures. For example, the Venezuelan government has sought to pressure foreign oil companies to either partner with state-run Petróleos de Venezuela, increase royalties to the government and cede operational control of oilfields or leave the country by December 31, 2005. In addition, the Venezuelan government has pressured foreign oil companies to apply, on a retroactive basis, a new standard for determining income tax that differs from previously applicable fiscal regulations. The Venezuelan government has also canceled mining concessions and has proposed that a state-run mining corporation administer mining operations. If political or economic measures such as expropriation, nationalization, renegotiation or nullification of contracts (like those for the supply of raw materials or energy), or currency, fiscal or transfer restrictions were implemented on Ternium’s subsidiary in Venezuela, its operations and revenues, and consequently Ternium’s financial results, could be adversely affected. The Venezuelan government has recently announced its decision to finance and form state-controlled industrial companies that could have direct or indirect effect on Ternium’s subsidiaries in Venezuela. For instance, the following projects, among others, have been announced: a plant dedicated to concentration of iron ore mined by FMO, a seamless pipe production facility, an integrated steel production facility and a scrap distribution company. However, the Venezuelan administration has stated that these projects would not compete against Sidor. Furthermore, the Venezuelan government owns a minority stake in Sidor, and, as a minority shareholder, could be able to intervene in Sidor’s business. For example, as a minority shareholder, the Venezuelan government has the right to approve (i) investments worth USD85 million or more, (ii) dispositions of material assets, (iii) guarantees in an amount of USD15 million or more, (iv) related-party transactions other than on an arm’s length basis and (v) certain material amendments of Sidor’s articles of association. In addition, Sidor’s operations rely on a number of trade- and services-related contractual relationships with entities owned by the government of Venezuela, including the purchase of iron ore from the state-owned company FMO, the purchase of electricity from Electrificadora del Caroní, C.A. (“EDELCA”) and the purchase of natural gas from PDVSA Gas, S.A. (“PDVSA Gas”). Accordingly, Ternium’s subsidiaries in Venezuela could suffer from any potential increase in the prices of other raw materials or supplies. Following a public announcement by the 21 Table of Contents Venezuelan government that sought to pressure Sidor to renegotiate the terms of the agreement for the supply of iron ore, as permitted under the contract’s hardship provision, on November 11, 2005, Sidor and FMO amended the pricing terms of the contract. The amended formula increased Sidor’s cost of iron ore from approximately USD19 to approximately USD31 per ton in fiscal 2006. Furthermore, under the revised contract, the pricing formula may be adjusted every two years, on the basis of public policy, Sidor’s competitiveness and the evolution of international steel prices. In conjunction with the changes in price conditions for the supply of iron ore to Sidor by FMO, the Venezuelan government is offering a price reduction on raw materials acquired from state-owned enterprises, such as FMO, that may reach 10% over the agreed market reference price. These preferential supply terms, as established in a presidential decree and related regulations, are conditioned on commitments by potential beneficiaries to assist development of the domestic industrial sector and to support certain community needs. In June 2006, Sidor was notified that it had been granted a 7.61% discount on its iron ore price in connection with the initial assessment of Sidor’s proposed industrial development plan. The other terms and conditions of the 1997 contract remain in effect under the revised contract. See “—Risks relating to the steel industry—The Ternium companies depend on a limited number of key suppliers.” and Item 4. “Information on the Company—Raw Materials and Energy—Venezuela”. Venezuelan government policies will likely significantly affect the economy and, as a result, Ternium’s Venezuelan operations. The Venezuelan government frequently intervenes in the Venezuelan economy and occasionally makes significant changes in policy. Recently the government’s actions to control inflation and implement other policies have involved wage and price controls, currency devaluations, capital controls and limits on imports, among other things. Ternium’s business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in policy involving tariffs, exchange controls, price controls and other matters such as currency devaluation, inflation, interest rates, taxation, industrial laws and regulations and other political or economic developments in or affecting Venezuela. Several measures imposed by the Venezuelan government, such as exchange controls and transfer restrictions, have affected and may further affect the operations of Ternium’s subsidiary in Venezuela and could prevent Ternium from paying dividends or other amounts from cash generated by Ternium’s Venezuelan operations. Several measures imposed by the Venezuelan government, such as exchange controls and transfer restrictions, have affected and may further affect the operations of Ternium’s subsidiaries in Venezuela and could prevent Ternium from paying dividends or other amounts from cash generated by its Venezuelan operations. In February 2003, after a significant devaluation in 2002 and a sharp decline in economic activity, the Venezuelan government and the Central Bank of Venezuela suspended the trading of foreign currencies and adopted a series of exchange regulations that established a new exchange control regime. A new commission, referred to as the Comisión de Administración de Divisas, or CADIVI, composed of five members appointed by the President of Venezuela, was created for establishment and administration of the new exchange control regime. Under the new regime, the Ministry of Finance, together with the Central Bank of Venezuela, sets the exchange rate with respect to the U.S. dollar and other currencies and has discretion to modify, at any time, the existing exchange control regime or the free float of the bolívar. The new regime centralizes the purchase and sale of foreign currencies, by permitting such sales to be made only through the Central Bank. Under current regulations, entities that incur or maintain indebtedness denominated in foreign currencies and wish to obtain U.S. dollars from the Central Bank of Venezuela to pay principal, interest and other amounts in respect of such indebtedness must obtain approval from, and have the indebtedness registered with, CADIVI. In accordance with these regulations, Ternium’s subsidiary in Venezuela, Sidor, has registered its external indebtedness and trade account payables. Any modification to the registered use of proceeds at CADIVI will require additional approval. If Sidor fails to obtain any required approvals or to register any debt under these regulations, CADIVI could impose penalties which could negatively affect its business. In addition to the foregoing approval, Ternium’s subsidiaries in Venezuela must obtain from CADIVI a separate approval for the purchase from the Central Bank of foreign currency necessary to make payments under their registered indebtedness. These approvals may only be obtained at or around the time each payment becomes due under such indebtedness. Pursuant to the current regulations, CADIVI’s approval for the purchase or sale of 22 Table of Contents foreign currency from the Central Bank is subject to the availability of such foreign currency at the time of such request, and any foreign currency obtained may only be utilized for the purposes previously approved by CADIVI. If CADIVI fails to issue such approvals with respect to amounts due under the indebtedness or if one of Ternium’s subsidiaries in Venezuela fails to obtain such approval prior to the dates on which such amounts are due and payable, it may not be able to pay its debt under the agreed conditions. Moreover, if timely payments in respect of the indebtedness cannot be made due to delays in obtaining the CADIVI approvals, certain of Sidor’s creditors will have the right to accelerate its indebtedness. A delay in payments made to suppliers could also result in requests for additional payment guarantees from Sidor or other assurances of payment, or could otherwise adversely affect Sidor’s commercial relationship with suppliers and affect its business opportunities. Furthermore, in the past, Sidor, like other Venezuelan companies, made sales denominated in bolívares to customers located in neighboring countries of Venezuela. These sales were made in accordance with the terms of sale agreed by the parties. However, export sales in bolívares were afterwards prohibited by CADIVI and a review process was opened for past sales. CADIVI could penalize Sidor for these past exports. Mexico Ternium has significant manufacturing operations and assets located in Mexico and a significant portion of its sales are made in Mexico. Ternium’s main revenues derived from its Mexican operations, therefore, are indirectly related to market conditions in Mexico and to changes in its GDP and per capita disposable income. Ternium’s business could be materially and adversely affected by economic, political and regulatory developments in Mexico. Economic conditions and government policies in Mexico could negatively impact Ternium’s business and results of operation. In the past, Mexico has experienced several periods of slow or negative economic growth, high inflation, high interest rates, currency devaluation and other economic problems. Furthermore, the Mexican national economy tends to reflect changes in the economic environment in the United States. If problems such as deterioration in Mexico’s economic conditions, social instability, political unrest, reduction in government spending or other adverse social developments reemerge in the future, they could lead to increased volatility in the foreign exchange and financial markets, and, depending on their severity and duration, could adversely affect the business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or prospects of Ternium. For example, adverse economic conditions in Mexico could result in higher interest rates accompanied by reduced opportunities for refunding or refinancing, foreign exchange losses associated with dollar-denominated debt, increased raw materials and operating costs, reduced domestic consumption of Ternium’s products, decreased operating results and delays in capital expenditures dependent on U.S. dollar purchases of equipment. Severe devaluation of the Mexican peso may also result in disruption of the international foreign exchange markets, hindering Ternium’s ability to convert Mexican pesos into U.S. dollars and other currencies for the purpose of making purchases of raw materials or equipment. Political conditions in Mexico could materially and adversely affect Mexican economic policy and, in turn, Ternium’s financial condition and results of operations. The Mexican political environment is in a period of change, and political uncertainty could adversely affect economic conditions in Mexico or Ternium’s financial condition and results of operations. In July 2000, Vicente Fox, a member of the National Action Party (Partido Acción Nacional, or PAN), the oldest opposition party in the country, won the presidential election. He took office on December 1, 2000, ending 71 years of rule by the Institutional Revolutionary Party (Partido Revolucionario Institucional, or PRI). Currently, no party has a working majority in either house of the Mexican Congress, which has made governance and the passage of legislation more difficult. National elections are scheduled to occur on July 2, 2006. Following these elections, there could be, as in the past, significant changes in laws, public policies and regulations that could adversely affect Mexico’s political and economic situation, and, as a result, could possibly adversely affect Ternium’s business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or prospects. 23 Table of Contents Mexican government policies will likely significantly affect the economy and as a result, Ternium’s Mexican operations. Future actions of the Mexican government or the effect in Mexico of international events could adversely affect Ternium’s results and financial condition. The Mexican government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the Mexican economy. Mexican government actions concerning the economy could have adverse effects on private sector entities in general and on Ternium in particular. Economic plans of the Mexican government in the past have not always fully achieved their objectives. Beginning in 1994, and continuing through 1995, Mexico experienced an economic crisis characterized by exchange rate instability, a devaluation of the Mexican peso, high inflation, high domestic interest rates, economic contraction, a reduction of international capital flows, reduced consumer purchasing power and high unemployment. In response to the economic crisis, the Mexican government implemented broad economic reform programs, which improved economic conditions until growth declined again in 2001, accompanied by increased inflation rates in 2000, 2001 and 2002. It is not possible to determine what effect existing or future government economic plans or their implementation could have on the Mexican economy or on Ternium’s financial condition or results of operations. Certain Regulatory Risks and Litigation Risks International trade actions or regulations and trade-related legal proceedings could adversely affect Ternium’s sales, revenues and overall business. International trade-related legal actions and restrictions pose a constant risk for Ternium’s international operations and sales throughout the world. Additionally, increased global trade liberalization, with many countries forming free trade blocs or otherwise reducing restrictions on imported goods, including flat steel products, and persistent excess global steel capacity have increased competition in many markets in which Ternium sells flat steel products. Such risks and increased competition are likely to continue into the foreseeable future. Increased trade liberalization has reduced certain of Ternium’s imported input costs and increased Ternium’s access to many foreign markets. However, greater trade liberalization has also increased competition for Ternium in its domestic markets. Consequently, Ternium’s domestic market share could be eroded in the face of foreign imports if tariffs and other barriers are reduced or eliminated in Ternium’s domestic markets. Ternium’s increased exports to foreign markets where import barriers have been reduced may not completely offset domestic market share losses resulting from increased foreign competition. Countries can impose restrictive import duties and other restrictions on imports under various national trade laws. The timing and nature of countries’ imposition of trade-related restrictions potentially affecting Ternium’s exports are unpredictable. Ternium’s international operations are vulnerable to such trade actions or restrictions that surface in any country to which Ternium exports or potentially could export. Trade restrictions on Ternium’s exports could adversely affect Ternium’s ability to sell products abroad and, as a result, Ternium’s profit margins, financial condition and overall business could suffer. One significant source of trade restrictions results from countries’ imposition of so-called “antidumping” and “countervailing” duties, as well as “safeguard measures.” These additional duties can be quite high and, as a result, severely limit or altogether impede an exporter’s ability to export to important markets such as the United States and Europe. In several of Ternium’s major export destinations, such as the United States or Europe, safeguard duties and other protective measures have been imposed against a broad array of steel imports in certain periods of excess global production capacity. Furthermore, certain domestic producers have filed antidumping and/or countervailing duty actions against particular steel imports. Some of these actions have led to restrictions on Ternium’s exports of certain types of steel products to some steel markets. As domestic producers’ filing of such actions is largely unpredictable, additional antidumping, countervailing duty or other such import restrictions could be imposed in the future, limiting Ternium’s export sales to and potential growth in those markets. See Item 4. “Information on the Company—Regulation—Trade regulations.” 24 Table of Contents Potential environmental, product liability and other claims could create significant liabilities for Ternium that could adversely affect its business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Some of the activities for which the Ternium companies supply products, such as canning for consumption, construction and the automotive industry are subject to inherent risks that could result in death, personal injury, property damage or environmental pollution. Furthermore, Ternium’s products are also sold to, and used in, certain safety-critical appliances. Correspondingly, defects in Ternium’s products or an inconsistency with the specifications of an order or the requirements of an application, could result in death, personal injury, property damage, environmental pollution, damage to equipment or disruption to a customer’s production lines. Actual or claimed defects in the products of the Ternium companies could give rise to claims against Ternium or its subsidiaries for losses and expose it to claims for damages, including significant consequential damages. In addition, the Ternium companies are subject to a wide range of local, provincial and national laws, regulations, permits and decrees relating to the protection of human health and the environment, and remediation or other environmental claims could be asserted against Ternium. The insurance maintained by Ternium may not be adequate or available to protect it in the event of a claim or its coverage could be canceled or otherwise terminated. A major claim for damages related to products sold could have a material adverse effect on Ternium’s business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. Labor regulations in the countries in which Ternium operates could result in higher labor costs and mandatory allowances for employee participation, resulting in lower net income for Ternium. Certain legal obligations require Ternium’s operating subsidiaries to contribute certain amounts to retirement funds and pension plans and restrict their ability to dismiss employees. The Ternium companies are also subject to other obligations, such as those in Venezuela and Mexico, under which such subsidiaries are required to distribute a percentage of their annual income calculated on a fiscal basis to their employees. In addition, certain Venezuelan courts have recently ruled in favor of an increase in benefits payable to retired employees of other Venezuelan companies. Future regulations or court interpretations established in the countries in which Ternium conducts its operations could increase its costs and reduce net income. Risks Relating to our ADSs The market price for our ADSs could be highly volatile. The market price for our ADSs is likely to fluctuate significantly from time to time in response to factors including: • fluctuations in the Company’s periodic operating results; • changes in financial estimates, recommendations or projections by securities analysts; • changes in conditions or trends in the steel production industry; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other companies involved in producing steel; • the trading price of Siderar’s shares on the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange; • announcements by Ternium’s competitors of significant acquisitions, divestitures, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • events affecting equities markets in the countries in which Ternium operates; • legal or regulatory measures affecting Ternium’s financial condition; 25 Table of Contents • departures of management and key personnel; or • potential litigation or adverse resolution of pending litigation against Ternium or its subsidiaries. Volatility in the price of our ADSs may be caused by factors outside of our control and may be unrelated or disproportionate to Ternium’s operating results. In particular, announcements of potentially adverse developments, such as proposed regulatory changes, new government investigations or the commencement or threat of litigation against Ternium, as well as announced changes in Ternium’s business plans or those of its competitors, could adversely affect the trading price of our ADSs, regardless of the likely outcome of those developments or proceedings. Broad market and industry factors could adversely affect the market price of our ADSs, regardless of its actual operating performance. Furthermore, the trading price of our ADSs could suffer as a result of developments in emerging markets. Although the Company is organized as a Luxembourg corporation, all of its assets and operations are located in Latin America. Financial and securities markets for companies with a substantial portion of their assets and operations in Latin America are, to varying degrees, influenced by economic and market conditions in emerging market countries. Although market conditions are different in each country, investor reaction to developments in one country can have significant effects on the securities of issuers with assets or operations in other emerging markets, including Argentina, Venezuela and Mexico. Prices of Latin American securities were adversely affected by, among other things, the economic crises in Russia and in Brazil in the second half of 1998, by the collapse of the exchange rate regime in Turkey in February 2001 and by the Argentine crisis in 2001. In deciding whether to purchase, hold or sell our ADSs, you may not be able to access as much information about us as you would in the case of a U.S. company. There may be less publicly available information about us than is regularly published by or about U.S. issuers. Also, Luxembourg regulations governing the securities of Luxembourg companies may not be as extensive as those in effect in the United States, and Luxembourg law and regulations in respect of corporate governance matters might not be as protective of minority shareholders as state corporation laws in the United States. Furthermore, the accounting standards in accordance with which Ternium’s combined consolidated financial statements, as well as the consolidated financial statements of its operating subsidiaries, are prepared differ in certain material aspects from the accounting standards used in the United States. Holders of our ADSs may encounter difficulties in the exercise of dividend and voting rights. You may encounter difficulties in the exercise of some of your rights with respect to shares if you hold ADSs rather than shares. If we make a distribution in the form of securities, the depositary is allowed, in its discretion, to sell on your behalf those securities and instead distribute the net proceeds to you. Also, under some circumstances, such as our failure to provide the depositary with voting materials on a timely basis, you may not be able to vote by giving instructions to the depositary. Holders of our shares and ADSs in the United States may not be able to exercise preemptive rights in certain cases. Pursuant to Luxembourg corporate law, existing shareholders of the Company are generally entitled to preemptive subscription rights in the event of capital increases and issues of shares against cash contributions. Under the Company’s articles of association, the board of directors has been authorized to waive, limit or suppress such preemptive subscription rights until October 26, 2010. The Company, however, may issue shares without preemptive rights only if the newly-issued shares are issued: • for, within, in conjunction with or related to, an initial public offering of the shares of the Company on one or more regulated markets (in one or more instances); • for consideration other than cash; 26 Table of Contents • upon conversion of convertible bonds or other instruments convertible into shares of the Company; provided, however, that the pre-emptive subscription rights of the then existing shareholders shall apply in connection with any issuance of convertible bonds or other instruments convertible into shares of the Company for cash; and • subject to a certain maximum percentage, as compensation to directors, officers, agents or employees of the Company, its direct or indirect subsidiaries or its affiliates, including without limitation the direct issuance of shares or the issuance of shares upon exercise of options, rights convertible into shares or similar instruments convertible or exchangeable into shares issued or created to provide compensation or incentives to directors, officers, agents or employees of the Company, its direct or indirect subsidiaries or its affiliates. For further details, see Item 10. “Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Association.” Furthermore, holders of our shares and ADSs in the United States may, in any event, not be able to exercise any preemptive rights, if granted, for shares unless those shares are registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) with respect to those rights or an exemption from registration is available. We intend to evaluate, at the time of any rights offering, the costs and potential liabilities associated with the exercise by holders of shares and ADSs of the preemptive rights for shares, and any other factors we consider appropriate at the time, and then to make a decision as to whether to register additional shares. We may decide not to register any additional share, requiring a sale by the depositary of the holders’ rights and a distribution of the proceeds thereof. Should the depositary not be permitted or otherwise be unable to sell preemptive rights, the rights may be allowed to lapse with no consideration to be received by the holders of the ADSs. It may be difficult to obtain or enforce judgments against the Company in U.S. courts or courts outside of the United States. The Company is a corporation organized under the laws of Luxembourg, and most of its assets are located outside of the United States. Furthermore, most of the Company’s directors and officers named in this annual report reside outside the United States. As a result, investors may not be able to effect service of process within the United States upon the Company or its directors or officers or to enforce against the Company or them in U.S. courts judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities law. There is doubt as to the enforceability in original actions in Luxembourg courts of civil liabilities predicated solely upon U.S. federal securities law, and the enforceability in Luxembourg courts of judgments entered by U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities law will be subject to compliance with procedural requirements under Luxembourg law, including the condition that the judgment does not violate Luxembourg public policy. 