Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should consider the risks described below that we believe may be material to investors in evaluating us. This section contains forward-looking statements, and in considering these statements, you should refer to the qualifications and limitations on our forward-looking statements that are described in SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT before the beginning of Item 1. Global economic conditions and market disruptions may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There continues to be global economic uncertainty and it is not known as to when economic conditions will improve significantly. These uncertain economic conditions in the markets where we operate, and other events or factors that adversely affect demand in the portable services industry, could adversely affect our business. Worsening conditions could adversely affect, among other things, the collection of our trade receivables on a timely basis, resulting in additional reserves for uncollectible accounts; and, in the event of continued contraction in container and modular unit sales and leasing, could lead to a build-up of inventory and lease fleet levels. These factors would have a further adverse impact on operating results and cash flows. We operate with a significant amount of indebtedness, which is secured by all or substantially all of our assets, subject to variable interest rates and contain restrictive covenants. Our substantial indebtedness could have adverse consequences, such as: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which could reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund future operating capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • expose us to the risk of increased interest rates, as our borrowings on our secured senior credit facilities are at variable rates of interest; • require us to sell assets to reduce indebtedness or influence our decisions about whether to do so; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or pursuing business opportunities; • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds; and • violating covenants in these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations; including substantially increasing our cost of borrowing and restricting our future operations, if not cured or waived. In addition, the lenders may be able to terminate any commitments they had made to supply us with further funds. Accordingly, we may not be able to fully repay our debt obligations, if some or all of our debt obligations are accelerated upon an event of default. Our senior credit agreements also contain various restrictive covenants that limit the operations of our business. In particular, these agreements include covenants and restrictions relating to: • payments and distributions to GFN; • liens and sale-leaseback transactions; • loans and investments; • debt and hedging arrangements; • mergers, acquisitions and asset sales; • transactions with affiliates; and • changes in business activities. There were no events of default under the covenants of our senior credit facilities at June 30, 2013. While we believe we will remain in compliance with covenants in the foreseeable future and that our relationships with our senior lenders are good, there is no assurance our lenders would consent to an amendment or waiver in the event of noncompliance; or that such consent would not be conditioned upon the receipt of a cash payment, revised principal payout terms, increased interest rates, or restrictions in the expansion of the credit facilities for the foreseeable future; or that our senior lenders would not exercise rights that would be available to them, including, among other things, demanding payment of outstanding borrowings. In addition, our ability to obtain additional capital or alternative borrowing arrangements at reasonable rates may be adversely affected. All or any of these adverse events would further limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to downturns in our business. I-19 Table of Contents Reference is made to Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding our indebtedness. We may need additional capital which we may be unable to obtain. Our business is capital intensive and any inability to obtain capital in the amounts and at the times when needed, may have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including substantially increasing our cost of borrowing and restricting our future operations and impairing our ability to grow, improve and maintain our leased assets. We have a significant amount of our outstanding senior indebtedness maturing in the foreseeable future. We may not have sufficient cash flow from our operations to repay amounts coming due. If we are unable to refinance this indebtedness, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to fluctuations in the rates of exchanges in the translation of our foreign operations into the U.S dollar for financial reporting purposes. Fluctuations in the rates of exchange for the U.S. dollar against the Australian, New Zealand and Canadian dollars could significantly affect our results of operations through lower than anticipated reported revenues and profitability as a result of the translation of our foreign operations’ financial results into U.S. dollars. A write-off of all or a part of our goodwill and intangibles would hurt our operating results and reduce our stockholders’ equity. As a result of our acquisitions of Royal Wolf, Pac-Van, Southern Frac and other smaller businesses, we have recorded significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets. Goodwill represents the excess of the total purchase price of these acquisitions over the fair value of the net assets acquired. We are not permitted to amortize goodwill under U.S. accounting standards and instead we review goodwill, as well as intangible assets, at least annually for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of acquired businesses, adverse market conditions and adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of the acquired business. In the event impairment is identified, a charge to earnings would be recorded. Although it does not affect our cash flow, a write-off of all or a part of our goodwill or intangibles would adversely affect our operating results and stockholders’ equity. Reference is made to Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding goodwill and intangible assets. Future acquisitions of businesses could subject us to additional business, operating and industry risks, the impact of which cannot presently be evaluated, and could adversely impact our capital structure. We intend to pursue acquisition opportunities in an effort to diversify our investments and grow our business. Any business we acquire may cause us to be affected by numerous risks inherent in the acquired business’ operations. If we acquire a business in an industry characterized by a high level of risk, we may be affected by the currently unascertainable risks of that industry. Although we will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular industry or target business, we cannot assure that we will be able to properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. In addition, the financing of any acquisition we complete could adversely impact our capital structure as any such financing would likely include the issuance of additional equity securities and/or the borrowing of additional funds. The issuance of additional equity securities may significantly reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and/or adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Increasing our indebtedness could increase the risk of a default that would entitle the holder to declare all of such indebtedness due and payable and/or to seize any collateral securing the indebtedness. In addition, default under one debt instrument could in turn permit lenders under other debt instruments to declare borrowings outstanding under those other instruments to be due and payable pursuant to cross default clauses. Accordingly, the financing of future acquisitions could adversely impact our capital structure and any equity interests in us. In addition, integrating acquired businesses and assets into our business can be difficult and risky, especially if the acquired business or assets involve an industry segment with which our management has limited experience or where there are limited synergies with our current businesses. Our ability to integrate acquired businesses is unproved, and synergies or efficiencies that we believe may result from such acquisition, may not come into fruition, which could negatively impact our business. I-20 Table of Contents While part of our long-term business strategy is to acquire additional businesses, there is no assurance that we will be able to identify businesses that we can acquire upon terms we believe acceptable, or if such acquisitions require additional financing, that we could obtain such additional financing. We cannot ascertain the availability of businesses to acquire, nor the capital requirements for future transactions. We cannot assure that, if required, additional financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular acquisition, we would be compelled to either restructure the transaction or abandon that particular acquisition. In addition, if we consummate a future acquisition, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing may impact the continued development or growth of the target business. Our long-term growth plan includes the expansion of operations into markets outside of the United States and the Asia-Pacific area. Such international expansion may not prove successful, and may divert significant capital, resources and management’s time and attention and adversely affect our on-going operations. To date, we have conducted all of our business within North America and the Asia-Pacific area. However, we have intentions in the future to enter international markets, including possibly South America and the European markets, which will require substantial amounts of management time and attention. Our products and overall marketing approach may not be accepted in other markets to the extent needed to make our international expansion profitable. In addition, the additional demands on management from these activities may detract from our efforts in our current markets and adversely affect our operating results therein. Any international expansion will expose us to the risks normally associated with conducting international business operations, including unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, changes in foreign legislation, possible foreign currency controls, currency exchange rate fluctuations or devaluations, tariffs, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, difficulties in obtaining and managing vendors and distributors, potential negative tax consequences and difficulties collecting accounts receivable. Our long-term growth could strain our management resources. Our future performance will depend in large part on our ability to manage our long-term planned growth that could strain our existing management, human and other resources. To successfully manage this growth, we must continue to add managers and employees and improve our operating, financial and other internal procedures and controls. We also must effectively motivate, train and manage employees. If we do not manage our growth effectively, it would adversely affect our future operating results. We may issue shares of our capital stock that would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and could cause a change in control of our ownership, or incur debt, which could adversely affect our financial condition. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 100,000,000 shares of common stock and up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock. At June 30, 2013, there were 73,499,145 authorized shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding options issued under our Stock Incentive Plan — see Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). If we seek to consummate future business combinations, we may be required to issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, to complete the other business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: • may significantly reduce the equity interest of investors; • may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded to our common stock; • may cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and • may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. In addition, we may incur substantial debt to complete another business combination. The incurrence of debt could result in: • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; • our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; and • our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt security instrument covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt instrument is outstanding. I-21 Table of Contents Our President and Chief Executive Officer has an employment agreement that does not require that he devote all o his time to our business. Our president and chief executive officer, Ronald Valenta, devotes a substantial amount of time to the management of the Company and its subsidiaries. Mr. Valenta, however, is not required under his employment agreement to commit full time to our affairs, which could create a conflict of interest when allocating his time between our operations and his other commitments. If Mr. Valenta’s other business affairs require him to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit his ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. We are subject to laws and governmental regulations and actions that affect our operating results and financial condition. Our business is subject to regulation and taxation under a wide variety of foreign and U.S. federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies including those imposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Internal Revenue Service, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and NASDAQ, as well as applicable labor laws. Although we have policies and procedures designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations, failure to comply with the various laws and regulations may result in civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased costs of compliance, additional taxation and restatement of our financial statements. There can also be no assurance that, in response to current economic conditions or the current political environment or otherwise, laws and regulations will not be implemented or changed in ways that adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, such as recently adopted legislation that expands health care coverage costs, or facilitates union activity or federal legislative proposals to otherwise increase taxation and operating costs. We are exposed to various possible claims relating to our business and our insurance may not fully protect us. We are exposed to various possible claims relating to our business. These possible claims include those relating to: (i) personal injury or death caused by container products, mobile offices or modular units leased or sold by us; (ii) accidents involving our vehicles and our employees; (iii) employment-related claims; (iv) property damage and (v) commercial claims. We believe that we have adequate insurance coverage for the protection of our assets and operations. However, our insurance may not fully protect us for certain types of claims, such as claims for punitive damages or for damages arising from intentional misconduct, which are often alleged in third party lawsuits. In addition, we may be exposed to uninsured liability at levels in excess of our policy limits. If we are found liable for any significant claims that are not covered by insurance, our liquidity and operating results could be materially adversely affected. It is possible that our insurance carrier may disclaim coverage for any class action and derivative lawsuits against us. It is also possible that some or all of the insurance that is currently available to us will not be available in the future on economically reasonable terms or not available at all. In addition, whether we are covered by insurance or not, certain claims may have the potential for negative publicity surrounding such claims, which may adversely impact our operating results, value of our public securities, or give rise to additional similar claims being filed. Disruptions in our information technology systems could limit our ability to effectively monitor and control our operations and adversely affect our operations. Our information technology systems facilitate our ability to monitor and control our operations and adjust to changing market conditions. Any disruption in our information technology systems or the failure of these systems to operate as expected could, depending on the magnitude of the problem, adversely affect our operating results by limiting our capacity to effectively transact business, monitor and control our operations and adjust to changing market conditions in a timely manner. The delay or failure to implement information system upgrades and new systems effectively could disrupt our business, distract management’s focus and attention from our business operations and growth initiatives, and increase our implementation and operating costs, any of which could negatively impact our operations and operating results. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for stockholders to resell common stock when they want or at a price they find attractive. We expect that the market price of our common stock will fluctuate. Our common stock price can fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; I-22 Table of Contents • changes in interest rates and other general economic conditions; • significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors; • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; • news reports relating to trends, concerns, litigation, regulatory changes and other issues in our industry; • geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts; • relatively low trading volume; and • significant concentration of ownership in our common stock. If equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock will rely in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. We do not control these analysts. The price of our stock could decline if one or more equity analysts downgrade our stock or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock, which may limit the return on your investment in us. Except for payment of dividends on our preferred stock and on the capital stock of Royal Wolf, we intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Unionization by some or all of our employees could cause increases in operating costs. Our employees are not presently covered by collective bargaining agreements. Unions may attempt to organize our employees in the future. We are unable to predict the outcome of any continuing or future efforts to organize our employees, the terms of any future labor agreements, or the effect, if any, those agreements might have on our operations or financial performance. Developments in California may have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. We are headquartered and have operations in California, which like many other state and local jurisdictions is facing severe budgetary problems and deficits. Action that may be taken in response to these problems, such as increases in property taxes, changes to sales taxes, adoption of a proposed “Business Net Receipts Tax” or other governmental efforts to raise revenues could adversely impact our business and results of operations. Significant Risks Related Primarily to Our Operations in the Asia-Pacific Area The future performance of Royal Wolf depends on customer demand for portable container solutions as well as the expansion of the portable container solutions products market in Australia. Any reduction in customer demand, failure of customer demand to grow, or failure of Royal Wolf to meet changes in customer demand or preferences may adversely affect Royal Wolf’s businesses, operational performance, growth prospects and financial position. For example, if expected growth in the portable container buildings market fails to come to fruition, or if businesses and individuals no longer demand portable container buildings at current levels, Royal Wolf’s return on its portable container building investments could be negatively impacted. The demand for Royal Wolf’s assets is dependent on the key industry segments into which Royal Wolf sells and lease assets, such as resources, construction, manufacturing, and retail. A significant reduction in the business climate in these industry segments, could negatively impact Royal Wolf’s results of operations. The success and ability to drive future growth is dependent to a large extent on brand reputation. Royal Wolf believes its brand reputation is a key driver in its success and its ability to drive future growth. Any adverse change to the reputation of Royal Wolf may adversely affect the Company’s businesses, operational performance and financial condition. Royal Wolf owns the trademark and license for the name “Royal Wolf” in Australia, New Zealand and surrounding islands in the Asia-Pacific region. There is a risk that use of the “Royal Wolf” brand by third parties in jurisdictions in which Royal Wolf does not own the trademark may adversely impact the Royal Wolf brand and consequently its business. I-23 Table of Contents Royal Wolf’s ability to achieve its long-term business strategy is dependent to a certain extent on its supply chain and purchasing. Royal Wolf’s long-term business strategy assumes a certain level of growth in Australian and New Zealand demand for container based solutions. Royal Wolf’s ability to meet this demand is dependent, to a certain extent, on the ability of Royal Wolf to purchase storage containers economically and on an on-time basis. Historically, Royal Wolf has successfully worked with shipping lines and international container leasing companies to purchase used containers, and with manufacturers and brokers, including in China, to purchase new containers, but there can be no guarantee of this in the future. Changes to shipping line practices with respect to used containers, and adverse changes in trade practices, regulations and relations between Australia and its trading partners, including China, could adversely impact Royal Wolf’s ability to purchase containers or impact the price at which Royal Wolf is able to purchase containers. Historically, Royal Wolf has relied on internal supply chain and sourcing arrangements, international suppliers and the logistics industry to relocate containers. Changes to these arrangements, constraints on the supply chain, failure of suppliers to deliver or deliver in a timely manner, or material increases in the price of new or used containers could have an adverse impact on Royal Wolf’s business, operational performance, profit margins and financial results. Royal Wolf purchases new storage container products under purchase orders issued to container manufacturers, which the manufacturers may or may not accept or be able to fill. There are several alternative sources of supply for storage containers. Though Royal Wolf is not dependent upon any one manufacturer in purchasing storage container products, the failure of one or more of its suppliers to timely deliver containers to Royal Wolf could adversely affect its operations. If these suppliers do not timely fill Royal Wolf’s purchase orders or do not properly manufacture the ordered products, Royal Wolf’s reputation and financial condition also could be harmed. Royal Wolf’s expansion plans involve an element of risk and could strain management resources. Royal Wolf intends to pursue a growth strategy involving organic and non-organic growth. There is a no guarantee that such growth will occur or be successful. Royal Wolf may incur significant capital expenditure in connection with expansion plans that may not be realized or may not deliver the earnings that are expected. In addition, Royal Wolf’s expansion plans may, in the future, give rise to risks or problems, including the diversion of management’s attention and resources, which may have a materially adverse impact on the performance of Royal Wolf. Limitations on Royal Wolf’s growth and expansion, or materially adverse changes arising from expansion plans, may affect the operating and financial performance of Royal Wolf. Failure to retain key personnel could adversely affect Royal Wolf’s operations and could impede our ability to execute our business plan and growth strategy. Royal Wolf is managed largely by its existing officers, including Robert Allan, its Chief Executive Officer. The continued success of Royal Wolf will depend largely on the efforts and abilities of these executive officers and certain other key employees. The members of the senior management team of Royal Wolf have substantial experience in the equipment leasing industry. These key employees have knowledge and an understanding of Royal Wolf and its industry that cannot be readily duplicated. Mr. Allan has an employment agreement which is terminable under certain circumstances upon notice to or by him. However, we do not have key-man insurance on any of these key personnel. The loss of Mr. Allan or any member of Royal Wolf’s senior management team could impair our ability to execute our business plan and growth strategy, cause a loss of customers, reduce revenues and adversely affect employee morale. Royal Wolf conducts its business in a highly competitive sector. Royal Wolf’s faces competition in the portable buildings, freight and portable storage markets. Royal Wolf also faces potentially significant competition from modular industry companies who have non-container portable building offerings, especially from several national competitors in Australia who have greater financial resources and pricing flexibility than Royal Wolf. As a result, Royal Wolf is subject to potential entry by new domestic and foreign competitors and the provision of new products or services, aggressive pricing and lease rates offered by existing competitors. Competition varies by region and Royal Wolf may not always be able to match its competitors in service levels, functionality and price in each or all regions. The emergence of a new competitor with international reach, or increased focus on the rental model by existing competitors, particularly with an extensive distribution network, could have an adverse effect on Royal Wolf’s business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Also, continued service improvement by competitors may result in Royal Wolf’s customers using substitutes in place of some of Royal Wolf’s products. Royal Wolf may not always be able to match its competitors in both functionality and price, which could negatively impact Royal Wolf’s revenues. In addition, some of Royal Wolf’s unique products are the subject of patent applications only and there is no guarantee that those applications will become effective. If the patent applications do not become effective, there is a risk that Royal Wolf’s competitors could produce similar rival products, which may have an adverse effect on Royal Wolf. I-24 Table of Contents Royal Wolf is subject to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Royal Wolf is subject to exchange rate fluctuations, particularly as it sources a substantial portion of its portable container solutions fleet from China in purchases, which are U.S. dollar-denominated. While Royal Wolf has a hedging policy to mitigate this risk, unhedged exchange rate fluctuations in the Australian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar and, to a lesser extent, the New Zealand dollar, may adversely affect the financial performance of Royal Wolf, including its financial position, cash flows, distributions, growth prospects, and share price. Royal Wolf is subject to Australian and New Zealand taxation and tariff regulation. Significant recent reforms and current proposals for further reforms to tax laws in the jurisdictions within which Royal Wolf operates may give rise to uncertainty. The precise scope and impact of future changes to tax laws may not be known. Royal Wolf is also subject to import tariffs with respect to the portable container products it sources from overseas. Any changes to such tax or tariff laws (including the imposition of, or increases to, such taxes or tariffs), their interpretation or the manner in which they are administered by the relevant government agency or the current rate of company income tax or import tariff may impact the operational or financial performance of Royal Wolf (or customers in its key end markets). Royal Wolf may face a tightening labor force and is subject to Occupational Health and Safety regulations. Royal Wolf’s ability to remain productive, profitable and competitive and to effect its planned growth initiatives depends on its ability to attract and retain workers. Tightening of the labor market in key regions due to a shortage of suitably skilled workers may inhibit Royal Wolf’s ability to hire and retain employees. Additionally, rising wages paid to employees may pose a risk to Royal Wolf’s margins if it is unable to pass on such higher costs through price increases. Royal Wolf is also subject to Occupational Health and Safety regulations. If Royal Wolf is not able to maintain its working conditions to meet Occupational Health and Safety regulations it may impact Royal Wolf’s operations and ability to attract and retain workers and also result in contravention of those regulations, which may give rise to potential criminal and civil liability and also damage Royal Wolf’s brand and reputation. Significant Risks Related Primarily to Our Business and Operations in North America General or localized economic downturns or weakness may adversely affect Pac-Van’s customers, in particular those in the construction industry, which may reduce demand for Pac-Van’s products and services and negatively impact our future revenues and results of operations. A significant portion of Pac-Van’s revenues is derived from customers who are in industries and businesses that are cyclical in nature and subject to changes in general economic conditions, including the construction industry. Although the variety of Pac-Van’s products, the breadth of its customer base and the number of markets it serves throughout the United States limit its exposure to economic downturns, general economic downturns or localized downturns in markets where its operates could reduce demand for Pac-Van’s products, especially in the construction industry, and negatively impact our future revenues and results of operations. For example a significant downturn in the construction industry during the 2008 to 2011 period significantly reduced the utilization rate of its leased assets, and negatively impacted margins, cash flow, revenues and the overall results of operations. Pac-Van faces significant competition in the modular buildings and portable storage industries. Pac-Van also faces potentially significant competition from modular buildings companies who have portable storage product offerings, especially from several national competitors in the United States who have greater financial resources and pricing flexibility than Pac-Van does. If Pac-Van is unable to compete successfully, it could lose customers and our future revenues could decline. Although Pac-Van’s competition varies significantly by market, the modular buildings markets in which Pac-Van competes are dominated by primarily two large participants and are highly competitive. In addition, Pac-Van competes with a number of large to mid-sized regional competitors, as well as many smaller, full and part-time operators in many local regions. The modular building industry is highly competitive, subject to stiff pricing competition and almost all of the competitors have portable storage product offerings. The primary modular national competitors with portable storage product offerings are less leveraged than Pac-Van, and have greater financial resources and pricing flexibility than Pac-Van does. If they focus on portable storage, Pac-Van could lose customers and our future revenues could decline. If Pac-Van is unable to compete successfully, it could lose customers and our future revenues and results of operations could decline. I-25 Table of Contents Because Pac-Van has depended to a large extent on the success of its leasing operations, the failure of Pac-Van to effectively and quickly remarket lease units that are returned could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Historically, Pac-Van’s average monthly lease fleet utilization has averaged between 70% and 85%; with the typical lease term being for an average period of over twelve months. The high utilization rate and the length of the average lease have provided Pac-Van with a predictable revenue stream. However, if utilization rates decline or should a significant number of Pac-Van’s lease units be returned during any short period of time, Pac-Van would have to re-lease a large supply of units at similar rates to maintain historic revenues from these operations. Pac-Van’s failure to effectively maintain historical utilization rates or remarket a large influx of units returning from leases could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Sales of modular buildings, mobile offices and container product units constitute a significant portion of Pac-Van’s revenues and the failure to continue to sell units at historic rates could adversely affect our ability to grow Pac-Van’s lease fleet. Revenues from sales of modular buildings, mobile offices and container products have been used to fund increases in the size of our lease fleet. As a result, the failure to continue to sell a significant number of units may adversely affect our ability to increase the size of Pac-Van’s lease fleet or to otherwise take advantage of business and growth opportunities available to it. Pac-Van may be brought into tort or environmental litigation or held responsible for cleanup of spills if the customer fails to perform, or an accident occurs in the use of our tank container products, which could materially adversely affect our business, future operating results or financial position. Pac-Van’s (and Southern Frac’s) portable liquid tank containers are used by its customers to store non-hazardous and certain hazardous liquids on the customer’s site. Pac-Van’s (and Southern Frac’s) customers are responsible for proper operation of our fleet equipment while on lease and returning a cleaned and undamaged container upon completion of use, but we cannot always assure that these responsibilities are fully met in all cases. In addition, if an accident were to occur involving our lease equipment or a spill of substances were to occur when in-transport or on-lease with our customer, a claim could be made against us as owner of the lease equipment. In the event of a spill or accident, we may be brought into a lawsuit or enforcement action by either our customer or a third party on numerous potential grounds, including that an inherent flaw in a container tank contributed to the accident or that the container tank had suffered some undiscovered harm from a previous customer’s prior use. In the event of a spill caused by our customers, we may be held responsible for cleanup under environmental laws and regulations concerning obligations of suppliers of rental products to effect remediation. In addition, applicable environmental laws and regulations may impose liability on us for conduct of third parties, or for actions that complied with applicable regulations when taken, regardless of negligence or fault. Substantial damage awards have also been made in certain jurisdictions against lessors of industrial equipment based upon claims of personal injury, property damage, and resource damage caused by the use of various products. While we try to take reasonable precautions that our lease equipment is in good and safe condition prior to lease and carry insurance to protect against certain risks of loss or accidents, liability could adversely impact our profitability. The portable liquid containment rental industry is highly competitive, and competitive pressures could impair or ability to increase market share and to rent, or sell, equipment at favorable prices. The portable liquid containment industry is highly competitive. Pac-Van competes against national, regional and local companies, some of which are significantly larger than we are and both of which have greater financial and marketing resources than we have. Some of our competitors also have longer operating histories, lower cost basis of rental equipment, lower cost structures and more established relationships with equipment manufacturers than we have. In addition, certain of our competitors are more geographically diverse than we are and have greater name recognition among customers than we do. As a result, our competitors that have these advantages may be better able to attract customers. We believe that local relationships, equipment quality, service levels and fleet size are key competitive factors in the portable liquid containment industry. From time to time, we or our competitors may attempt to compete aggressively by lowering rental rates or prices. Competitive pressures could adversely affect our future revenues and operating results by depressing the rental rates. To the extent we lower lease rates or increase our fleet in order to retain or increase market share, our operating margins would be adversely impacted. In addition, we may not be able to match a larger competitor’s price reductions or fleet investment because of its greater financial resources, all of which could adversely impact our future operating results. I-26 Table of Contents Changes in regulatory, or governmental, oversight of hydraulic fracturing could materially adversely affect the demand for our portable liquid containment products. We believe that in recent years growing demand related to hydraulic fracturing has increased and we have made a conscientious decision to enter into this market. However, oil and gas exploration and extraction (including use of tanks for hydraulic fracturing of gas and oil shale) are subject to numerous local, state and federal regulations. The hydraulic fracturing method of extraction has come under scrutiny in several states and by the Federal government due to the potential adverse effects that hydraulic fracturing, and the liquids and chemicals used, may have on water quality and public health. In addition, the disposal of wastewater from the hydraulic fracturing process into injection wells may increase the rate of seismic activity near drill sites and could result in regulatory changes, delays or interruption of future activity. Changes in these regulations could limit, interrupt, or stop exploration and extraction activities, which would negatively impact the demand for Pac-Van’s portable liquid containment products. Seasonality of the portable liquid containment industry may impact future quarterly results. Activity may decline in our second quarter month of December and our third quarter months of January and February. These months may have lower rental activity in parts of the country where inclement weather may delay, or suspend, a company’s project. The impact of these delays may be to decrease the number of frac tank containers on lease until companies are able to resume their projects when weather improves. These seasonal factors may impact our future quarterly results in each year’s second and third quarters. Significant increases in raw material costs could increase our operating costs significantly and harm our future results of operations. Pac-Van purchases raw materials, including metals, lumber, siding and roofing and other products, to construct and modify modular buildings and to modify containers to its customers’ requirements. Pac-Van also maintains a truck fleet to deliver units to and return units from customers. During periods of rising prices for raw materials, especially oil and fuel for delivery vehicles, and in particular when the prices increase rapidly or to levels significantly higher than normal, Pac-Van may incur significant increases in operating costs and may not be able to pass price increases through to customers in a timely manner, which could harm our future results of operations. Failure to retain key personnel could adversely affect Pac-Van’s operations and could impede our ability to execute our business plan and growth strategy. Pac-Van is managed largely by its seven existing officers, including its President, Theodore M. Mourouzis. The continued success of Pac-Van will depend largely on the efforts and abilities of Mr. Mourouzis and these senior managers. These officers and employees have an understanding of Pac-Van and its industry that cannot be readily duplicated. Mr. Mourouzis has an employment agreement which is terminable under certain circumstances upon notice to or by him. The loss of any member of Pac-Van’s senior management team could impair our ability to execute our business plan and growth strategy, cause a loss of customers, reduce revenues and adversely affect employee morale. Failure by Pac-Van’s manufacturers to sell and deliver products to Pac-Van in timely fashion may harm Pac-Van’s reputation and our financial condition. Pac-Van currently purchases new modular buildings and components, mobile offices and container products directly from manufacturers. Although Pac-Van is not dependent on any one manufacturer and is able to purchase products from a variety of suppliers, the failure of one or more of its suppliers to timely manufacture and deliver storage containers to Pac-Van could adversely affect its operations. Pac-Van purchases new modular buildings and components, mobile offices and storage containers under purchase orders issued to various manufacturers, which the manufacturers may or may not accept or be able to fill. Pac-Van has no contracts with any supplier. If these suppliers do not timely fill Pac-Van’s purchase orders, or do not properly manufacture the ordered products, our reputation and financial condition also could be harmed. Some zoning laws restrict the use of Pac-Van’s storage units and therefore limit its ability to offer its products in all markets. Many of Pac-Van’s customers use Pac-Van’s storage units to store goods on their own properties. Local zoning laws in some of Pac-Van’s markets prohibit customers from maintaining mobile offices or storage containers on their properties or require that mobile offices or storage containers be located out of sight from the street. If local zoning laws in one or more of Pac-Van’s geographic markets were to ban or restrict its products from being stored on customers’ sites, Pac-Van’s business in that market could suffer. I-27 Table of Contents Significant Risks Related Primarily to Our Business and Operations at Southern Frac Significant competition in the industry in which Southern Frac operates may result in its competitors offering new or better products and services or lower prices, which could result in a loss of customers and a decrease in revenues. The portable liquid storage tank container manufacturing industry is highly competitive. Southern Frac competes with other manufacturers of varying sizes, some of which have substantial financial resources. Manufacturers compete primarily on the quality of their products, customer relationships, service availability and cost. Barriers to entry are low. As a result, it is possible that additional competitors could enter the market at any time. If Southern Frac is unable to successfully compete with other portable liquid storage tank container manufacturers it could lose customers and our revenues may decline. Southern Frac’s business significantly depends on spending by the oil and natural gas industry in the United States, and this spending and our business has been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by industry and financial market conditions that are beyond our control. Southern Frac significantly depends on the willingness of the oil and gas industry to make operating and capital expenditures to explore, develop and produce oil and natural gas in the United States. Declines in these expenditures, due to the low natural gas price environment or other factors, could result in project modification, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in, or nonpayment of, amounts owed to us by customers. Expectations for lower market prices for oil and natural gas, as well as the availability of capital for operating and capital expenditures, may also cause the curtailment of spending, thereby reducing demand for our liquid storage tank containers. Industry conditions are influenced by numerous factors and events to which we have no control and any of these factors or events that would result in the reduction of drilling activity could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. Changes in regulatory, or governmental, oversight of hydraulic fracturing could materially adversely affect the demand for Southern Frac’s portable liquid containment products. Oil and gas exploration and extraction (including use of tanks for hydraulic fracturing of gas and oil shale) are subject to numerous local, state and federal regulations. The hydraulic fracturing method of extraction has come under scrutiny in several states and by the Federal government due to the potential adverse effects that hydraulic fracturing, and the liquids and chemicals used, may have on water quality and public health. In addition, the disposal of wastewater from the hydraulic fracturing process into injection wells may increase the rate of seismic activity near drill sites and could result in regulatory changes, delays or interruption of future activity. Changes in these regulations could limit, interrupt, or stop exploration and extraction activities, which would negatively impact the demand for Southern Frac’s portable liquid containment products. Seasonality of the portable liquid containment industry may impact future quarterly results. Activity may decline in our second quarter month of December and our third quarter months of January and February. These months may have lower rental activity in parts of the country where inclement weather may delay, or suspend, a company’s project. The impact of these delays may be to decrease the number of frac tank containers sold until companies are able to resume their projects when weather improves. These seasonal factors may impact Southern Frac’s future operating results in each fiscal year’s second and third quarters. Difficulties Associated with Fixed Capacity Levels Southern Frac’s ability to increase manufacturing capacity may require significant investments in equipment and personnel. To the extent that we make investments to increase manufacturing capacity and demand for our products is not sustained, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Conversely, if we choose not to make investments to increase manufacturing capacity, our ability to meet customer demand for our products and increase revenues may be adversely affected. Additionally, operating our facilities at near full capacity levels may cause us to incur labor cost at premium rates in order to meet customer requirements, experience increased maintenance expenses or require us to replace our machinery and equipment on an accelerated basis, each of which could cause our results of operations and financial condition to be adversely affected. Implementation of Operational Improvements As part of our ongoing focus on being a low-cost provider of high quality products, we continually analyze our business to further improve our operations. Our continued analysis may include identifying and implementing opportunities for: (i) further rationalization of manufacturing capacity; (ii) streamlining of selling, general and administrative overhead; or (iii) efficient investment in new equipment and the upgrading of existing equipment. We may be unable to successfully identify or implement plans targeting these initiatives, or fail to realize the benefits of the I-28 Table of Contents plans we have already implemented, as a result of operational difficulties, a weakening of the economy or other factors. Cost reductions may not fully offset decreases in the prices of our products due to the time required to develop and implement cost reduction initiatives. Additional factors such as inconsistent customer ordering patterns, increasing product complexity and heightened quality standards also may make it more difficult to reduce our costs. It is also possible that as we incur costs to implement improvement strategies, the initial impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flow may be adverse and we may not be able to successfully realize sufficient cost savings to mitigate this adverse impact. Southern Frac’s business could be harmed if we fail to maintain proper inventory levels. Southern Frac is required to maintain sufficient inventories to accommodate the needs of its customers including, in many cases, short lead times on delivery requirements. We purchase raw materials on a regular basis in an effort to maintain our inventory at levels that we believe are sufficient to satisfy the anticipated needs of our customers based upon orders, customer volume expectations, historic buying practices and market conditions. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in the use of higher-priced inventory to fill orders reflecting lower selling prices, if steel prices have significantly decreased. These events could adversely affect our financial results. Conversely, if we underestimate demand for our products or if our suppliers fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, we may experience inventory shortages. Inventory shortages could result in unfilled orders, negatively impacting our customer relationships and resulting in lost revenues, which could harm our business and adversely affect our financial results. Southern Frac’s future operating results may be affected by fluctuations in raw material prices, and it may be unable to pass on any increases in raw material costs to its customers. Southern Frac’s principal raw material is steel. The steel industry as a whole has been cyclical, and at times availability and pricing can be volatile due to a number of factors beyond our control. These factors include general economic conditions, domestic and worldwide demand, the influence of hedge funds and other investment funds participating in commodity markets, curtailed production from major suppliers due to factors such as the closing or idling of facilities, accidents or equipment breakdowns, repairs or catastrophic events, labor costs or problems, competition, new laws and regulations, import duties, tariffs, energy costs, availability and cost of steel inputs (e.g., ore, scrap, coke and energy), currency exchange rates and other factors. This volatility, as well as any increases in raw material costs, could significantly affect our steel costs and adversely impact our financial results. If our suppliers increase the prices of our critical raw materials, we may not have alternative sources of supply. In addition, in an environment of increasing prices for steel and other raw materials, competitive conditions may impact how much of the price increases we can pass on to our customers. To the extent we are unable to pass on future price increases in our raw materials to customers, our financial results could be adversely affected. Also, if steel prices decrease, competitive conditions may impact how quickly we must reduce our prices to our customers, and we could be forced to use higher-priced raw materials to complete orders for which the selling prices have decreased. Decreasing steel prices could also require us to write-down the value of our inventory to reflect current market pricing. The loss of key supplier relationships could adversely affect Southern Frac. Southern Frac has developed relationships with certain steel and other suppliers which have been beneficial to us by providing more assured delivery and a more favorable all-in cost, which includes price and shipping costs. If any of those relationships were disrupted, it could have an adverse effect on delivery times and the overall cost and quality of our raw materials, which could have a negative impact on our business. In addition, we do not have long-term contracts with any of our suppliers. If, in the future, we are unable to obtain sufficient amounts of steel and other products at competitive prices and on a timely basis from our traditional suppliers, we may be unable to obtain these products from alternative sources at competitive prices to meet our delivery schedule, which could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. The costs of manufacturing Southern Frac’s products and its ability to supply customers could be negatively impacted if we experience interruptions in deliveries of needed raw materials or supplies. If, for any reason, Southern Frac’s supply of steel is curtailed or it otherwise is unable to obtain the quantities it needs at competitive prices, our business could suffer and our financial results could be adversely affected. Such interruptions could result from a number of factors, including a shortage of capacity in the supplier base of raw materials, energy or the inputs needed to make steel or other supplies, a failure of suppliers to fulfill their supply or delivery obligations, financial difficulties of suppliers resulting in the closing or idling of supplier facilities, other significant events affecting supplier facilities, significant weather events and other factors, all of which are beyond our control. I-29 Table of Contents The loss of significant volume from key customers could adversely affect Southern Frac. A significant loss of, or decrease in, business from any of its key customers could have an adverse effect on Southern Frac’s sales and financial results if it cannot obtain replacement business. In addition, certain of its top customers may be able to exert pricing and other influences on Southern Frac, requiring it to market, deliver and promote its products in a manner that may be more costly. Moreover, Southern Frac generally does not have long-term contracts with its customers. As a result, although its customers periodically provide indications of their product needs and purchases, they generally purchase Southern Frac’s products on an order-by-order basis, and the relationship, as well as particular orders, can be terminated at any time. Significant Risks Related Primarily to Our 9.00% Series C Cumulative Redeemable Perpetual Preferred Stock (the “Series C Preferred Shares” or “Series C Preferred Stock”) We cannot assure that quarterly dividends on, or any other payments in respect of, the Series C Preferred Shares will be made timely or at all. We cannot assure that we will be able to pay quarterly dividends on the Series C Preferred Shares or to redeem the Series C Preferred Shares, if we wanted to do so. Quarterly dividends on our Series C Preferred Shares will be paid from funds legally available for such purpose when, as and if declared by our board of directors. Certain factors may influence our decision, or adversely affect our ability, to pay dividends on, or make other payments in respect of, our Series C Preferred Shares, including, among other things: • the amount of our available cash or other liquid assets, including the impact of any liquidity shortfalls caused by the below-described restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to generate and transfer cash to us; • our ability to service and refinance our current and future indebtedness; • changes in our cash requirements to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions or other operational or strategic initiatives; • our ability to borrow or raise additional capital to satisfy our capital needs; • restrictions imposed by our existing, or any future, credit facilities, debt securities or leases, including restricted payment and leverage covenants that could limit our ability to make payments to holders of the Series C Preferred Shares; • limitations on the ability of Southern Frac or Royal Wolf to distribute cash to us due to third parties holding equity interests in those subsidiaries; and • limitations on cash payments to shareholders under Delaware law, including limitations that require dividend payments be made out of surplus or, subject to certain limitations, out of net profits for the then-current or preceding year in the event there is no surplus. Based on its evaluation of these and other relevant factors, our board of directors may, in its sole discretion, decide not to declare a dividend on the Series C Preferred Shares for any quarterly period for any reason, regardless of whether we have funds legally available for such purpose. In such event, a holder’s sole recourse will be its rights as a holder of Series C Preferred Shares, which includes the right to cumulative dividends and, under certain specified circumstances, to additional interest and limited conditional voting rights. GFN’s ability, as a holding company, to make payments in respect of the Series C Preferred Shares depends on the ability of our subsidiaries to transfer funds to us. GFN is a holding company and, accordingly, substantially all of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. As a result, GFN’s cash flow and ability to make dividend payments to our stockholders depend on the earnings of our subsidiaries, the distribution from our subsidiaries and compliance with the covenants governing the indebtedness of our subsidiaries, including, without limitation, covenants of the senior credit facilities of our subsidiaries that permit dividends and other payments from such subsidiaries to GFN. Payments by our subsidiaries to GFN are also contingent upon those subsidiaries’ earnings and business considerations. Furthermore, GFN’s right to receive any assets of any of our subsidiaries upon their liquidation, reorganization or otherwise, and thus the ability of a holder of Series C Preferred Stock to benefit indirectly from such distribution, will be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiaries’ creditors. Pac-Van’s senior credit facility permits Pac-Van to pay dividends in each fiscal year to GFN and its subsidiaries equal to the lesser of $4,000,000 or the amount equal to the dividend rate of the Series C Preferred Stock and its aggregate liquidation preference and the actual amount of dividends required to be paid to the Series C Preferred Stock under its certificate of designation; provided that the payment of such dividends does not cause a default or event of default under Pac-Van’s senior credit facility, Pac-Van is solvent, Pac-Van is permitted to borrow $4,000,000 or more under the credit facility, Pac-Van is in compliance with the fixed charge coverage ratio covenant of its senior credit facility after giving effect to the payment and the dividends are paid no earlier than ten business days prior to the date they are due. The terms of Pac-Van’s senior credit facility therefore limit Pac-Van’s ability to pay dividends to GFN I-30 Table of Contents which will be used to pay dividends on the Series C Preferred Stock. If the amount of the dividends payable on the Series C Preferred Stock exceeds the amount of the dividends Pac-Van is permitted to pay GFN and GFN is unable to generate sufficient cash from its other subsidiaries for a dividend payment, GFN may not be able to make such required dividend payment on the Series C Preferred Stock. Our ability to pay dividends or make other payments to the holders of our Series C Preferred Shares will be adversely affected if Pac-Van’s senior credit facility prohibits the payment of dividends to GFN. The Series C Preferred Shares represent perpetual equity interests. The Series C Preferred Shares represent perpetual equity interests in us and, unlike our indebtedness, will not entitle the holders thereof to receive payment of a principal amount at a particular date. As a result, holders of the Series C Preferred Shares may be required to bear the financial risks of an investment in the Series C Preferred Shares for an indefinite period of time. In addition, the Series C Preferred Shares will rank junior to all our indebtedness and other liabilities, and to any other senior securities we may issue in the future with respect to assets available to satisfy claims against us. In addition, the lack of a fixed mandatory redemption date for the Series C Preferred Shares will increase your reliance on the secondary market for liquidity purposes. Investors should not expect us to redeem the Series C Preferred Shares on the date the Series C Preferred Shares becomes redeemable by the Company or on any particular date afterwards. The shares of Series C Preferred Shares have no maturity or mandatory redemption date and are not redeemable at the option of investors under any circumstances. By their terms, the Series C Preferred Shares may be redeemed by us at our option either in whole or in part at any time on or after May 17, 2018 or, under certain circumstances, may be redeemed by us at our option, in whole, sooner than that date. Any decision we may make at any time regarding whether to redeem the Series C Preferred Shares will depend upon a wide variety of factors, including our evaluation of our capital position, our capital requirements and general market conditions at that time. However, investors should not assume that we will redeem the Series C Preferred Shares at any particular time, or at all. Increases in market interest rates may adversely affect the trading price of our Series C Preferred Shares. One of the factors that will influence the trading price of our Series C Preferred Shares will be the dividend yield on the Series C Preferred Shares relative to market interest rates. An increase in market interest rates, which are currently at low levels relative to historical rates, may reduce demand for our Series C Preferred Shares and would likely increase our borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. Accordingly, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of our Series C Preferred Shares to decrease. The Series C Preferred Shares have not been rated and the lack of a rating may adversely affect the trading price of the Series C Preferred Shares. We have not sought to obtain a rating for the Series C Preferred Shares, and the shares may never be rated. It is possible, however, that one or more rating agencies might independently determine to assign a rating to the Series C Preferred Shares or that we may elect to obtain a rating of our Series C Preferred Shares in the future. In addition, we may elect to issue other securities for which we may seek to obtain a rating. The market value of the Series C Preferred Shares could be adversely affected if: • any ratings assigned to the Series C Preferred Shares in the future or to other securities we issue in the future are lower than market expectations or are subsequently lowered or withdrawn; • or ratings for such other securities would imply a lower relative value for the Series C Preferred Shares. The interests of holders in the Series C Preferred Shares could be diluted by our issuance of additional shares of preferred stock, including additional Series C Preferred Shares, and by other transactions. Our charter currently authorizes the issuance of up to one million shares of preferred stock in one or more classes or series, and we will be permitted, without notice to or consent of the holders of Series C Preferred Shares, to issue additional Series C Preferred Shares or other securities that have rights junior to such shares, up to the maximum aggregate number of authorized shares of our preferred stock. The issuance of additional preferred stock on a parity with or senior to our Series C Preferred Shares would dilute the interests of the holders of our Series C Preferred Shares, and any issuance of preferred stock senior to or on a parity with our Series C Preferred Shares or of additional indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends on, redeem or pay the liquidation preference on our Series C Preferred Shares. We cannot assure that quarterly dividends on, or any other payments in respect of, the Series C Preferred Shares will be made timely or at all and there are effectively no provisions relating to our Series C Preferred Shares that protect the holders of our Series C Preferred Shares in the event of a highly leveraged or other transaction, including a merger or the sale, lease or conveyance of all or substantially all our assets or business; any of which might adversely affect the holders of our Series C Preferred Shares. I-31 Table of Contents A holder of Series C Preferred Shares has extremely limited voting rights. Voting rights as a holder of Series C Preferred Shares will be extremely limited. However, in the event that six quarterly dividends, whether consecutive or not, payable on Series C Preferred Shares are in arrears or a listing failure has occurred and is continuing, the holders of Series C Preferred Shares will have the right, voting together as a class with all other classes or series of parity securities upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable, to elect two additional directors to serve on our board of directors. The Series C Preferred Shares are not convertible and purchasers may not realize a corresponding benefit if the trading price of our common stock rises. The Series C Preferred Shares are not convertible into our common shares and do not have exchange rights or entitled or subject to any preemptive or similar rights. Accordingly, the market value of the Series C Preferred Shares may depend to some degree on, among other things, dividend and interest rates for other securities and other investment alternatives and our actual and perceived ability to make dividend or other payments in respect of our Series C Preferred Shares rather than the trading price of our common stock. In addition, our right to redeem the Series C Preferred Shares on or after May 17, 2018 or in the event of a change in control could impose a ceiling on their value. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. I-32 Table of Contents 