Risk Factors In addition to risk factors included in this Annual Report, you should also consider all the Risks Related to Our Business and Operations assuming we complete our acquisition of RWA Holdings Pty Limited, an Australian company (collectively, with its subsidiaries, “Royal Wolf”) as set forth in proxy materials filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as described under “Royal Wolf Acquisition Agreement” in Item 1 Business. We are a development stage company with no operating history and, accordingly, you will not have any basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are an incorporated development stage company with no operating results to date. We have entered into an agreement to acquire Royal Wolf; such acquisition may not be consummated without the requisite stockholders approvals or for other reasons. Since we do not have an operating history, you will have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to effect a business combination. We will not generate any revenues until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. We have a limited operating history and may not be able to continue as a going concern. We have not commenced any operations, but have entered into an agreement to acquire Royal Wolf. This acquisition would fulfill the conditions of a business combination required to release the funds held in the trust account to us. If this acquisition is not completed, we intend to immediately resume the search for another suitable business combination; however, there is no assurance that such a suitable business combination would be identified and consummated within the requisite time periods. In the event one is not, we would be required to distribute the funds held in the trust account to the holders of our common stock issued in our initial public offering (our “public stockholders”). We believe that our existing cash resources, including cash on-hand and available borrowings under the limited recourse revolving line of credit, will be sufficient to cover operating costs and expenses until the acquisition of Royal Wolf is consummated. However, if we do not consummate the acquisition of Royal Wolf, we would be required to obtain additional financing to continue our search for another suitable business combination and continue as a going concern. 6 If we liquidate the trust account without completing a business combination, our public stockholders may receive less than $8.00 per share and will receive nothing with respect to our warrants. If we are unable to complete a business combination within the prescribed time frames, we will distribute the funds in the trust account to our public stockholders. The per-share distribution from the trust account may be less than $8.00 (the offering price of the units in our initial public offering) because of the underwriting discounts and offering expenses. The underwriters have agreed to waive their rights to the contingent underwriting discount deposited in the trust account for their benefit if no business combination is completed. Furthermore, there will be no distribution with respect to our outstanding warrants, which will expire worthless if we liquidate without completing a business combination. You will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies. We may be deemed to be a “blank check” company under the United States securities laws. However, because we have net tangible assets in excess of $5,000,000, we believe that we are exempt from rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission to protect investors of blank check companies, such as Rule 419. Accordingly, investors will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules. Because we do not believe that we are subject to Rule 419, our units became immediately tradable and we have a longer period of time to complete a business combination in certain circumstances than if we were subject to such rule. Because of uncertainty in Delaware law, it is possible that the requirements and restrictions contained in our certificate of incorporation may be amended, which could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our stockholders by such requirements and restrictions. Our certificate of incorporation contains certain requirements and restrictions that will apply to us until the consummation of a business combination. Specifically, our certificate of incorporation provides, among other things, that: · prior to the consummation of a business combination, we will submit such business combination to our stockholders for approval; · we may consummate the business combination only if approved by a majority of the shares of common stock voted by the public stockholders and public stockholders owning less than 20% of the shares sold in this offering exercise their conversion rights; · if a business combination is approved and consummated, public stockholders who voted against the business combination and properly exercise their conversion rights will receive their pro rata share of the trust account; and · if a business combination is not consummated or a letter of intent, an agreement in principle or a definitive agreement is not signed within the time periods specified in this prospectus, then we will distribute to all of our public stockholders their pro rata share of the trust account. Our certificate of incorporation requires that we obtain unanimous approval of our stockholders to amend the above-described provisions. However, the validity of unanimous consent provisions under Delaware law has not been settled. A court could conclude that the unanimous consent requirement constitutes a practical prohibition on amendment in violation of the stockholders’ implicit rights to amend the corporate charter. In that case, the above-described provisions would be amendable without unanimous approval and any such amendment could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our stockholders. However, we view the foregoing provisions as obligations to our stockholders, and neither we nor our board of directors will propose, or seek stockholder approval of, any amendment of these provisions. 7 If third parties bring claims against us, the funds held in the trust account could be reduced and the per-share liquidation price received by stockholders could be less than $8.00 per share. Our placing of funds in the trust account may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we have obtained from certain vendors agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, there is no guarantee that they would be prevented from bringing claims against the trust account. In addition, there is no guarantee that any entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and will not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. Accordingly, the funds held in the trust account could be subject to claims that could take priority over the claims of our public stockholders. We cannot assure you that the per-share distribution from the trust account will not be less than $8.00 per share (the per-share conversion price as of December 31, 2006 was $7.80 per share, assuming no claims were made against such funds) due to such claims of such creditors. Ronald F. Valenta has agreed he will be personally liable to ensure that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced by claims of target businesses or vendors or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or contracted for or products sold to us. However, we cannot assure you that he will be able to satisfy those obligations. To complete a business combination, we may issue shares of our capital stock that would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and could cause a change in control of our ownership, or incur debt, which could adversely affect our financial condition. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 100,000,000 shares of common stock and up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock. At December 31, 2006, there were 78,566,667 authorized shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding options and warrants). If we do not consummate our acquisition of Royal Wolf, and we seek to consummate another business combination, we may be required to issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, to complete the other business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: · may significantly reduce the equity interest of investors; · may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded to our common stock; · will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and · may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. 8 In addition, we may incur substantial debt to complete a business combination. The incurrence of debt could result in: · default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; · acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves are breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; · our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; and · our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt security instrument covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt instrument is outstanding. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination will depend on, and ability to be successful thereafter may depend on, the efforts of our key personnel, some of whom may join us following a business combination. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination is dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, including Ronald F. Valenta, our Chief Executive Officer, and John O. Johnson, our Chief Operating Officer. Messrs. Valenta and Johnson are not currently compensated for their services and have advised the Board of Directors that they would serve in these capacities without compensation until at least the earliest of June 30, 2008 or such time as Royal Wolf achieves annualized earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) of $20 million or we achieve a company-wide total annualized EBITDA of $40 million. If we do not complete the acquisition of Royal Wolf, the role of such individuals in the target business after consummation of a Business Combination, however, cannot presently be ascertained. Although some of our key personnel, including Messrs. Valenta and Johnson and Chuck Barrantes, may remain associated with the target business in senior management or advisory positions following a Business Combination, it is likely that some or all of the management of the target business will remain in place. Moreover, our key personnel will be able to remain with us after the consummation of a Business Combination only if they are able to negotiate employment or consulting agreements in connection with the Business Combination, the terms of which, including the compensation to be paid to such individuals, would be determined at such time between the respective parties. Since our current management may be negotiating the terms of the Business Combination as well as the terms of their employment or consulting arrangements, our current management may have a conflict of interest in negotiating terms favorable to us in the acquisition agreement and at the same time negotiating terms in their employment or consulting arrangements that are favorable to them. Although management intends to fully exercise its fiduciary duty to negotiate terms in the acquisition agreement that will be in the best interests of the combined company and its stockholders, members of management may be negotiating terms in their employment or consulting agreements that are favorable to them. If we acquire a target business in an all-cash transaction, it would be more likely that current members of management would remain with the combined company if they chose to do so. If a Business Combination were to be structured as a merger whereby the stockholders of the target company were to control the combined company following a Business Combination, it may be less likely that our current management would remain with the combined company unless it was negotiated as part of the transaction via the acquisition agreement, an employment agreement or other arrangement. In making the determination as to whether current management should remain with us following the Business Combination, management will analyze the experience and skill set of the target business’s management and negotiate as part of the Business Combination that certain members of current management remain if it is believed that it is in the best interests of the combined company post-Business Combination. While we intend to closely scrutinize any individuals we engage after a Business Combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the laws and regulations affecting a public company, and this could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with these laws and regulations. This additional training could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues that may adversely affect our operations. 9 Our present executive officers, other than our Chief Financial Officer, allocate their time to other businesses, thereby causing conflicts of interest in their allocation of time to our affairs. These conflicts of interest could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our present officers and directors, other than Charles E. Barrantes, our Chief Financial Officer, are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which could create a conflict of interest when allocating their time between our operations and their other commitments. These executive officers are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to devote any specific number of hours to our affairs. If these executive officers’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Since none of our officers or directors, or any of their affiliates, has ever been associated with a blank check company it may not be possible to evaluate their ability to consummate a business combination using a blank check company as the acquisition vehicle. While it is the case that certain of our officers and directors are associated with entities that seek to acquire businesses, none of our officers or directors, or any of their affiliates, has ever been associated with a blank check company. Accordingly, it may not be possible to adequately evaluate their ability to successfully consummate a business combination using a blank check company as the acquisition vehicle. Some of our officers and directors may have conflicts of interest in determining whether a particular business opportunity should be presented because they are currently associated with entities other than blank check companies that seek to acquire businesses. Some of our officers and directors are currently associated with entities other than blank check companies that seek to acquire businesses. Accordingly, to the extent that a particular business opportunity is in a business related to the business of another entity with which our officers and directors are associated, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Mr. Valenta is also affiliated with two companies in the specialty finance industry. He is a director of Mobile Services Group, Inc., a portable storage company he founded in 1988, and the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Mobile Office Acquisition Corporation, the parent company of PacVan, Inc., a U.S. office modular and portable storage company. Our directors and certain of our officers own shares of our common stock, warrants and options that will become worthless if we do not consummate a business combination within the requisite time periods; therefore, they may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination. 10 Our directors and certain of our officers own shares of our common stock that were issued prior to the initial public offering. These persons have waived their right to receive distributions from the trust account with respect to those shares if we are unable to consummate a business Combination. Additionally, our executive officers hold options or warrants to purchase an aggregate 1,702,833 shares of our common stock. These shares, options and warrants will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination and liquidate. The personal and financial interests of our directors and officers may influence their motivation in timely identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination, including the Royal Wolf acquisition. Consequently, our directors’ and officers’ discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest. Initially, we expect to complete only one business combination, which will cause us to be solely dependent on a single business and a limited number of products or services unless and until we make additional business combinations. We expect to complete initially only one business combination. Our proposed acquisition of Royal Wolf is a single business combination. If we do not complete the acquisition of Royal Wolf, we could seek to consummate another business combination with more than one entity, but we believe this would be unlikely given the difficulties and expenses incurred in connection with the subsequent assimilation of the operations and services or products of the acquired companies into a single operating business. If we initially complete only the acquisition of a single entity, our prospects for our success may be: · solely dependent upon the performance of a single business; or · dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. The ability of our public stockholders to exercise their conversion rights may not allow us to effectuate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. When we seek stockholder approval of any business combination, each public stockholder will have the right to convert such stockholder’s shares of common stock to cash in an amount equal to a pro rate portion of trust account if the public stockholder votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved and completed. Accordingly, if our business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many public stockholders may exercise such conversion rights, we may either need to reserve part of the trust account for possible payment upon such conversion, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their conversion rights than we expect. Therefore, we may not be able to consummate a business combination other than the Royal Wolf acquisition that requires us to use all of the funds held in the trust account as part of the purchase price, or we may end up having a leverage ratio that is not optimal for our business combination. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. If we do not complete the acquisition of Royal Wolf and if necessary or desirable in connection with a particular business combination, we may stipulate that we will not proceed if public stockholders holding a lesser percentage than 20% of the shares issued in the initial public offering exercise their conversion rights, which may limit our ability to consummate a business combination within the required time period. 11 Under our certificate of incorporation, we may consummate a business combination only if public stockholders owning less than 20% of the shares issued in our initial public offering vote against the business combination and exercise their conversion rights. Because of cash requirements to consummate a particular business combination or for other reasons, when seeking stockholder approval of the business combination, we may stipulate that we will not proceed if public stockholders holding a lesser percentage than 20% of the shares issued in the initial public offering exercise their conversion rights. This may limit our ability to consummate the business combination and could result in our liquidation if we do not complete a business combination within the required time period. We do not intend to stipulate to a lesser percentage in connection with the Royal Wolf acquisition. Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, we may not be able to consummate another attractive business combination if the Royal Wolf acquisition is not consummated. If we do not complete the Royal Wolf acquisition, we expect to encounter intense competition from other entities with similar business objectives, including private equity funds and operating businesses competing for business combinations. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources and our financial resources will be relatively limited in comparison. While we believe that there are numerous potential target businesses with which we could effect a business combination, our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Furthermore, the obligation we have to seek stockholder approval of a business combination may delay the consummation of a transaction. Additionally, our outstanding warrants and the future dilution they potentially represent may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. If we do not complete the Royal Wolf acquisition and have to seek another initial business combination, we may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete such other initial business combination; which could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular business combination. If we do not complete the Royal Wolf acquisition and have to seek another initial business combination, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for other intitial business combination future transaction. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination, the costs of identifying, investigating and negotiating a business combination with a target business or the obligation to convert into cash a significant number of shares from dissenting stockholders, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to either restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, it is possible that we could use a portion of the funds not in the trust account or available under the limited recourse line of credit to make a deposit, down payment or fund a “no-shop” provision with respect to a proposed business combination. In the event that we were ultimately required to forfeit such funds (whether as a result of our breach of the agreement relating to such payment or otherwise), we may not have a sufficient amount of working capital available outside of the trust account or under the limited recourse line of credit to conduct due diligence and pay other expenses related to finding a suitable business combination without securing additional financing. In such a case, if we were ultimately required to forfeit such funds and were unable to secure additional, we would most likely fail to consummate a business combination in the allotted time and would be forced to liquidate. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing may impact the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers or directors is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. 12 Our outstanding options and warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of common stock and increase the difficulty of effecting a business combination. We have outstanding options and warrants to purchase 10,933,333 shares of common stock. The potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares of common stock upon exercise of these warrants and option could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business. Such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete a business combination. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants and options could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future financing. The exercise by our officers and directors of their registration rights after a business combination may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination if we not complete the acquisition of Royal Wolf. Our officers and directors are entitled to make a demand that we register the resale of their shares of common stock (including shares of common stock they may acquire upon exercise of the warrants issued in the private placement) at any time commencing three months prior to the date on which their shares are released from escrow. The shares will be released from escrow on the earlier of one year from the completion of a business combination or upon the completion of a transaction that occurs subsequent to the consummation of the initial business combination that results in all of our stockholders having the right to exchange their shares of common stock for cash, securities or other property. If our officers and directors exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their shares of common stock and the shares they may acquire upon exercise of the warrants, then there will be an additional 2,458,333 shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market. The presence of these additional shares of common stock trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, if we do not complete the acquisition of Royal Wolf, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of acquiring another target business, as the stockholders of the target business may be discouraged from entering into a business combination or will request a higher price for their securities because of the potential effect the exercise of such rights may have on the trading market for our common stock. The American Stock Exchange may delist our securities from quotation on its exchange, which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. We cannot assure that our securities will continue to be listed on the American Stock Exchange (“AMEX”) in the future prior to a business combination. Additionally, in connection with our business combination, it is likely that the AMEX may require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. 13 If the AMEX delists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences including: · a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; · a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock,” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; · a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and · a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it more difficult for us to complete a business combination. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, we may be subject to certain restrictions that may make it more difficult for us to complete a Business Combination, including: · restrictions on the nature of our investments; and · restrictions on the issuance of securities. In addition, we may have imposed upon us certain burdensome requirements, including: · registration as an investment company; · adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and · reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy, compliance policies and procedures and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. We do not believe that our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940. To this end, the proceeds held in trust may be invested by the trustee only in United States “government securities” within the meaning of Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 having a maturity of 180 days or less, or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we were deemed to be subject to that act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense for which we have not allotted. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Inapplicable. 14 Item 