Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Financial Condition, Business and Industry Our limited operating history makes it difficult for us to forecast our revenues and plan our expenses accurately, or to evaluate our business and prospects appropriately. We commenced operations in June 2001 and have only a limited operating history, which may not provide a meaningful basis on which to evaluate our business. Our limited operating history, combined with the rapidly evolving nature of the flat panel display semiconductor industry and other factors that are beyond our control, makes 5 it difficult to accurately forecast our future revenues and budget our operating expenses. We have limited historical financial data from which to predict our future revenues and expenses. Most of our expenses are fixed in the short term or incurred in advance of anticipated revenues; therefore, we may not be able to reduce our expenses in a timely manner to offset any shortfall in revenues. We may not have sufficient experience to address the risks frequently encountered by companies with limited operating history, including our potential failure to: · maintain our profitability; · preserve our position in the large-sized panel display driver market; · acquire and retain customers; · secure satisfactory performance from our semiconductor manufacturing service providers; · diversify our revenue sources by successfully developing, designing and selling products other than large-sized panel display drivers; · develop display drivers with more advanced features and for use in different applications; · attract, train, motivate and retain qualified personnel; · keep up with evolving industry standards and market developments; · manage our expanding operations and product offerings, including our recent acquisition of Wisepal Technologies, Inc., or Wisepal, and the integration of any future acquisitions; · raise our brand recognition, maintain and enhance our reputation and develop customer loyalty; · anticipate and adapt to any changes in government regulations, mergers and acquisitions involving our competitors, technological developments and other significant competitive and market dynamics; · maintain adequate control of our expenses; or · manage risks relating to intellectual property rights, including the protection of our proprietary technologies. If we were unsuccessful in addressing any of these risks, our business would be materially and adversely affected. We do not expect to sustain our recent growth rate in revenues or net income, so you should not rely on the results of recent periods as an indication of future revenues or net income growth. Our revenues and net income have grown significantly since our inception in 2001. Our annual revenues increased by 79.9% to $540.2 million in 2005 and further increased by 37.8% to $744.5 million in 2006. Our net income increased from $36.0 million in 2004 to a net income of $61.6 million in 2005 and then further increased to a net income of $75.2 million in 2006. We do not expect similar growth rates in our revenues and net income in future periods. Accordingly, you should not rely on the results of any prior quarterly or annual periods as indicative of our future revenues or net income growth or financial results. We face numerous challenges relating to our growth. The scope and complexity of our business have grown significantly since our inception. Our growth has placed and will continue to place a strain on our management, personnel, systems and resources. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, execute our business plan or respond to competitive pressures. To successfully manage our growth, we believe we must effectively: · hire, train, integrate and manage additional qualified engineers, senior managers, sales and marketing personnel and information technology personnel; 6 · implement additional, and improve existing, administrative and operations systems, procedures and controls; · expand our accounting and internal audit team, including hiring additional personnel with U.S. GAAP and internal control expertise; · continue to expand and upgrade our design and product development capabilities; · manage multiple relationships with semiconductor manufacturing service providers, customers, suppliers and certain other third parties; and · manage our financial condition. Moreover, if our allocation of resources did not correspond with future demand for particular products, we could miss market opportunities, and our business and financial results could be materially and adversely affected. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage our growth effectively in the future. Our quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to predict, and if we do not meet quarterly financial expectations, our ADS price will likely decline. Our quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to predict. They have fluctuated in the past from quarter to quarter and may continue to do so in the future. Our operating results may in some quarters fall below market expectations, likely causing our ADS price to decline. Our quarterly revenues and operating results may fluctuate because of many factors, including: · our ability to successfully design, develop and introduce in a timely manner new or enhanced products acceptable to our customers; · changes in the relative mix in the unit shipments of our products, which have significantly different average selling prices and cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues; · the loss of one or more of our key customers; · decreases in the average selling prices of our products; · our accumulation of inventory; · the relative unpredictability in the volume and timing of customer orders; · the risk of cancellation or deferral of customer orders in anticipation of our new products or product enhancements, or due to a reduction in our customers’ end demand; · changes in the availability of capacity of semiconductor manufacturing service providers; · the rate at which new markets emerge for new products under development; · the evolution of industry standards and technologies; · product obsolescence and our ability to manage product transitions; · our involvement in litigation or other types of disputes; · general economic conditions; and · natural disasters, particularly earthquakes and typhoons, or disease outbreaks affecting countries where we conduct our business or where our products are manufactured, assembled or tested. These factors are difficult to foresee. They or other factors could seriously harm our business. We anticipate the rate of new orders may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our operating expenses and inventory levels are based on our expectations of future revenues, and our operating expenses are relatively fixed in the short term. 7 Consequently, if anticipated sales and shipments in any quarter do not occur when expected, operating expenses and inventory levels could be disproportionately high, and our operating results for that quarter and, potentially, future quarters may be negatively impacted. Any shortfall in our revenues would directly impact our business. Our operating results are volatile and difficult to predict; therefore, you should not rely on the operating results of any one quarter as indicative of our future performance. Our operating results in future quarters may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In this event, our ADS price may decline significantly. We have derived substantially all of our net revenues from sales to the TFT-LCD panel industry, which is highly cyclical and subject to price fluctuations. Such cyclicality and price fluctuations could negatively impact our business or results of operations. In 2005 and 2006, approximately 96.3% and 97.6% of our revenues, respectively, was attributable to display drivers that were incorporated into TFT-LCD panels. We expect to be substantially dependent on sales to the TFT-LCD panel industry for the foreseeable future. The TFT-LCD panel industry is intensely competitive and is vulnerable to cyclical market conditions. For example, according to Display Search, the average selling price of 17-inch and 32-inch panels decreased by 25.2% and 28.7%, respectively, in 2006 compared to 2005. The average selling prices of TFT-LCD panels could decline for numerous reasons, including the following: · a surge in manufacturing capacity due to the ramping up of new fabrication facilities; · manufacturers operating at high levels of capacity utilization in order to reduce fixed costs per panel; and · lower-than-expected demand for end-use products that incorporate TFT-LCD panels. An oversupply of large-sized TFT-LCD panels in 2006 resulted in downward pricing pressure on TFT-LCD panel manufacturers which, in turn, resulted in similar downward pricing pressure on us. We could not sufficiently reduce costs to completely offset such downward pricing pressure, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to reduce costs to offset such downward pricing pressure in the future. Moreover, as a result of this slowdown in demand for TFT-LCD panels, in 2006 we were required to extend the payment terms we offer to certain of our customers, which negatively impacted our cash flows. During periods of declining average selling prices for TFT-LCD panels, TFT-LCD panel manufacturers may decrease capacity utilization and sell fewer panels, which could depress demand for our display drivers. As a result, the cyclicality of the TFT-LCD panel industry could adversely affect our revenues, cost of revenues and results of operations. We primarily depend on five foundries to manufacture our wafers, and any failure to obtain sufficient foundry capacity or loss of any of the foundries we use could significantly delay our ability to ship our products, causing us to lose revenues and damage our customer relationships. Access to foundry capacity is critical to our business because we do not manufacture our own wafers and instead rely primarily on five third-party foundries. The ability of a foundry to manufacture our semiconductor products is limited by its available capacity. Access to capacity is especially important due to the limited availability of high-voltage CMOS process technology required for the manufacture of wafers used in display drivers. Although we are in negotiations with third-party foundries to enter into long-term supply arrangements that guarantee us access to foundry capacity, we do not currently have such arrangements. As a result, if the primary third-party foundries that we rely upon were not able to meet our required capacity, or if our business relationships with these foundries were adversely affected, we would not be able to obtain the required capacity from these foundries and would have to seek alternative foundries, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or which may expose us to risks associated with qualifying new foundries, as further discussed below. Our results of operations and business prospects could be adversely affected as a result of the foregoing. We place our orders on the basis of our own customers’ purchase orders and sales forecasts; however, any of the foundries we use can allocate capacity to other foundry customers and reduce deliveries to us on short notice. It is possible that foundry customers that are larger and better financed than we are, or that have agreements or better relationships with the foundries we use, may induce these foundries to reallocate capacity to them. The loss of any of the foundries we use or any shortfall in available foundry capacity could impair our ability to secure the supply of products that we need, which could significantly delay our ability to ship our products, causing a loss of revenues and damages in our customer relationships. 8 Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, or TSMC, and Vanguard International Semiconductor Corporation, or Vanguard, have historically manufactured substantially all of our wafers. In order to diversify our foundry sources, we have begun to use Macronix International Co., Ltd., or Macronix, Lite-on Semiconductor Corp., or Lite-on, and Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing Ltd., or Chartered, to manufacture a portion of our products. In 2007, we also plan to begin using United Microelectronics Corporation, or UMC, and Powerchip Semiconductor Corp., or Powerchip, on a mass-production scale. As a result of outsourcing the manufacturing of our wafers, we face several significant risks, including: · failure to secure necessary manufacturing capacity, or being able to obtain required capacity only at higher cost; · limited control over delivery schedules, quality assurance and control, manufacturing yields and production costs; and · the unavailability of, or potential delays in obtaining access to, key process technologies. In addition, in order to manufacture our display drivers used in large-sized TFT-LCD panels, we require foundries with high-voltage manufacturing process capacity. Of the limited number of foundries that offer this capability, some are owned by integrated device manufacturers which are also our competitors. As a result, our dependence on high-voltage foundries presents the following additional risks: · potential capacity constraints faced by the limited number of high-voltage foundries and the lack of investment in new and existing high-voltage foundries; · difficulty in attaining consistently high manufacturing yields from high-voltage foundries; · delay and time required (approximately one year) to qualify and ramp up production at a new high voltage foundry; and · price increases. As a result of these risks, we may be required to use foundries with which we have no established relationships, which could expose us to potentially unfavorable pricing, unsatisfactory quality or insufficient capacity allocation. Moreover, a scarcity in foundry capacity could necessitate making investments in foundries in order to secure additional capacity, which would require us to substantially increase our capital outlays and possibly raise additional capital, which may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, if at all. Shortages of processed tape used in the manufacturing of our products or the loss of one of our suppliers may increase our costs or limit our revenues and impair our ability to ship our products on time. There is a limited number of companies which supply processed tape used to manufacture our semiconductor products, and therefore, from time to time, shortages of such processed tape may occur. If any of our suppliers experience difficulties in delivering processed tape used in our products, we may not be able to locate alternative sources in a timely manner. Moreover, if shortages of processed tape were to occur, we would incur additional costs or be unable to ship our products to our customers in a timely fashion, all of which could harm our business and our customer relationships and negatively impact our earnings. The loss of, or our inability to secure sufficient capacity at, any of the third-party assembly and testing houses that assemble and test our products could disrupt our shipments, harm our customer relationships and reduce our sales. Access to third-party assembly and testing capacity is critical to our business because we do not have in-house assembly and testing capabilities and instead rely on third-party service providers. Access to capacity is especially important to our business because display drivers require specialized assembly and testing services. A limited number of third-party assembly and testing houses assemble and test substantially all of our current products. We do not have binding long-term supply arrangements with assembly and testing service providers that guarantee us access to capacity. If the primary assembly and testing service providers that we rely upon were not able to meet our requirements, or if our business relationships with these service providers were adversely affected, we would not be 9 able to obtain the required capacity from such providers and would have to seek alternative providers, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. As a result, we do not directly control our product delivery schedules, assembly and testing costs and quality assurance and control. If any of these third-party assembly and testing houses experiences capacity constraints or financial difficulties or suffers any damage to its facilities, or if there is any other disruption of its assembly and testing capacity, we may not be able to obtain alternative assembly and testing services in a timely manner. We typically procure services from assembly and testing houses on a per-order basis. Because of the amount of time we usually take to qualify assembly and testing houses, we may experience significant delays in product shipments if we are required to find alternative sources. Any problems that we may encounter with the delivery, quality or cost of our products could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and orders. Shortages of other key components for our customers’ products could delay our ability to sell our products. Shortages of components and other materials that are critical to the design and manufacture of our customers’ products may limit our sales. These components include color filters, backlights and glass substrates. In the past, companies that use our products have experienced delays in the availability of key components from other suppliers. For example, some TFT-LCD panel manufacturers experienced a shortage of glass substrates in 2001, 2003 and 2004, as well as color filters in 2003 and 2004. While shortages of components and other materials critical to the design and manufacture of our customers’ products have yet to limit our sales, such delays could cause a slowdown in demand and a decrease in sales for our products. We depend on two customers for a substantial majority of our revenues and the loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, either of them would significantly reduce our revenues and adversely impact our operating results. Our top two customers, CMO and CPT, together with their respective affiliates, accounted for approximately 58.9% and 16.2%, respectively, of our revenues in 2005 and for approximately 55.0% and 12.4%, respectively, of our revenues in 2006. The loss of either CMO or CPT as our customer or a sharp reduction in sales to either customer would have a significant negative impact on our business. As further discussed below, our sales to these customers are made pursuant to standard purchase orders rather than contracts. These customers may cancel or reduce orders more readily than if we had long-term purchase commitments from them. In the event of a cancellation or reduction of an order, we would likely not be able to reduce operating expenses sufficiently so as to minimize the impact of the lost revenues. In the alternative, we may have excess inventory that we cannot sell, which would harm our operating results. We expect our reliance on sales to CMO and CPT and their respective affiliates to continue in the foreseeable future. Therefore, our operating results will likely continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers, as well as on the ability of such customers to sell products that incorporate our products. Failure to attract new customers may limit our growth prospects. We face challenges in attracting new customers for our existing products as well as new products. Marketing our display drivers to other TFT-LCD panel manufacturers that have established relationships with our competitors may be difficult. Moreover, several TFT-LCD panel manufacturers have in-house design capabilities and therefore may not need to source semiconductor products from us. To sell new products, we will likely need to target new market segments and new customers with whom we do not have current relationships, which may require different strategies and may present difficulties that we may not have encountered before. Therefore, failure to broaden our customer base and attract new customers may limit our growth prospects. Technological innovation may reduce the number of display drivers required for each large-sized panel, thereby reducing the number of display drivers we are able to sell per panel. If such reduction is not offset by the general growth of the industry, the growth in our market share or an increase in our average selling prices, our revenues may decline. Multiple display drivers are required for each large-sized panel to function. We are designing higher-channel display drivers to reduce the number of display drivers required for each large-sized panel while achieving the same resolution. By developing such innovative and cost-effective display driver solutions, we hope to grow our market share, attract additional customers, increase our average selling prices and capture new design wins. We cannot assure you that developing such display drivers with a higher number of channels will successfully achieve the 10 foregoing goals. If we fail to attain the foregoing goals, and the decrease in revenues as a result of the reduction in the number of display drivers we sell per panel is not offset by the increase in average selling prices or unit sales, our revenues may decline. We rely on the services of our key personnel, and if we are unable to retain our current key personnel and hire additional personnel, our ability to design, develop and successfully market our products could be harmed. We rely upon the continued service and performance of a relatively small number of key personnel, including certain engineering, technical and senior management personnel. In particular, our engineers and other key technical personnel are critical to our future technological and product innovations. Competition for highly skilled engineers and other key technical personnel is intense in the semiconductor industry in general and in Taiwan’s flat panel semiconductor industry in particular. Moreover, our future success depends on the expansion of our senior management team and the retention of our key employees such as Jordan Wu, our president and chief executive officer; Dr. Biing-Seng Wu, our chairman; Chih-Chung Tsai, our chief technology officer; and Max Chan, our chief financial officer. We rely on these individuals to manage our company, develop and execute our business strategies and manage our relationships with key suppliers and customers. Any of these employees could leave our company with little or no prior notice and would be free to work with a competitor. We do not have “key person” life insurance policies covering any of our employees. The loss of any of our key personnel or our inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, including engineers and others, could delay the development and introduction of, and would have an adverse effect on our ability to sell, our products as well as our overall business and growth prospects. We may also incur increased operating expenses and be required to divert the attention of other senior executives to recruit replacements for key personnel. If we fail to forecast customer demand accurately, we may have excess or insufficient inventory, which may increase our operating costs and harm our business. The lead time required by the semiconductor manufacturing service providers we use to manufacture our products is typically longer than the lead time that our customers provide to us for delivery of our products to them. Therefore, to ensure availability of our products for our customers, we will typically ask our semiconductor manufacturing service providers to start manufacturing our products based on forecasts provided by these customers in advance of receiving purchase orders. However, these forecasts are not binding purchase commitments, and we do not recognize revenues from these products until they are shipped to customers. Moreover, for the convenience of our customers, we may agree to ship our inventory to warehouses located near our customers, so that our products can be delivered to our customers more quickly. We may from time to time agree that title and risk of loss do not pass to our customer until the customer requests delivery of our products from such warehouses. In such case, we will not recognize revenues from these products until the title and risk of loss has passed to our customers based on the shipping terms, which is generally when they are delivered to our customers from these warehouses. As a result, we incur inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated revenues. Anticipated demand for our products may not materialize; therefore, manufacturing based on customer forecasts exposes us to risks of high inventory carrying costs and increased product obsolescence and may increase our costs. If we overestimate demand for our display drivers or if purchase orders are cancelled or shipments delayed, we may incur excess inventory that we cannot sell, which would harm our financial results. Conversely, if we underestimate demand, we may not have sufficient inventory and may lose market share and damage customer relationships, which also could harm our business. Obtaining additional supply in the face of product shortages may be costly or impossible, particularly in the short term, which could prevent us from fulfilling orders. These inventory risks are exacerbated by the high level of customization of our products, which limits our ability to sell excess inventory to other customers. Our close relationship with CMO could limit our potential to do business with CMO’s competitors, which may cause us to lose opportunities to grow our business and expand our customer base. CMO is one of our largest shareholders and has been our largest customer since our inception. We expect to continue to maintain various contractual and other relationships with CMO. Our close relationship with CMO could limit our potential to do business with CMO’s competitors or other TFT-LCD panel manufacturers, who may perceive that granting business to us could benefit CMO. Our close relationship with CMO may result in lost business opportunities or may prevent us from taking advantage of opportunities to grow our business and expand our customer base. 11 If we do not achieve additional design wins in the future, our ability to grow will be limited. Our future success will depend on our current and prospective customers designing our products into their products. To achieve design wins, we must design and deliver cost-effective, innovative and integrated products that are customized for our customers’ needs. Once a supplier’s products have been designed into a system, the panel manufacturer may be reluctant to change its source of components due to the significant costs and time associated with qualifying a new supplier. Accordingly, our failure to obtain additional design wins with panel manufacturers and to successfully design, develop and introduce new products and product enhancements could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. A design win is not a binding commitment by a customer to purchase our products and may not result in large volume orders of our products. Rather, it is a decision by a customer to use our products in the design process of that customer’s products. Customers can choose at any time to stop using our products in their designs or product development efforts. Moreover, even if our products were chosen to be incorporated into a customer’s products, our ability to generate significant revenues from that customer would depend on the commercial success of those products. Thus, a design win may not necessarily generate significant revenues if our customers’ products are not commercially successful. Some of our semiconductor products are manufactured at only one foundry. If any foundry is unable to provide the capacity we need, we may experience delays in shipping our products, which could damage our customer relationships and result in reduced revenues and higher expenses. Although we use several foundries for different semiconductor products, certain of our products are manufactured at only one of these foundries. If any one of the sole foundries we use for a specific product is unable to provide us with our required capacity, we could experience significant delays in delivering the product being manufactured for us by that foundry. Also, if any of the foundries we use experience financial difficulties, if their foundry operations are damaged or if there is any other disruption of their foundry operations, we may not be able to qualify an alternative foundry in a timely manner. If we choose to use a new foundry or process technology for a particular semiconductor product, we believe that it will take us several quarters to qualify the new foundry or process before we can begin shipping such products. If we cannot qualify a new foundry in a timely manner, we may experience a significant interruption in our supply of the affected products, which could reduce our revenues, increase our expenses and damage our customer relationships. An adverse change to our relationship with CMO could have a material adverse effect on our business. CMO is one of our largest shareholders, beneficially owning approximately 12.8% of our outstanding shares as of December 31, 2006, and is also our largest customer, accounting (together with its affiliates) for approximately 55.0% of our revenues in 2006. Our engineers work closely with CMO’s engineers to design display drivers used in TFT-LCD panels manufactured by CMO. We have entered into various transactions with CMO in the past, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions.” If our relationship with CMO deteriorates for any reason, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Our products are complex and may require modifications to resolve undetected errors or failures, which could lead to higher costs, a loss of customers or a delay in market acceptance of our products. Our products are highly complex and may contain undetected errors or failures when first introduced or as new revisions are released. If our products were delivered with errors or defects, we could incur additional development, repair or replacement costs, and our credibility and market acceptance of our products could be harmed. Defects could also lead to liability for defective products and lawsuits against us or our customers. We have agreed to indemnify some of our customers in some circumstances against liability from defects in our products. A successful product liability claim could require us to make significant damage payments. Our display drivers comprise part of a complex panel manufactured by our customers. Our display drivers must operate according to specifications with the other components used by our customers in the panel manufacturing process. For example, during the panel manufacturing process, our display drivers are attached to the panel glass and must interoperate with the glass efficiently. If other components fail to operate efficiently with our display drivers, we may be required to incur additional development time and costs to improve the interoperability of our display drivers with the other components. 12 Our highly integrated products are difficult to manufacture without defects. The existence of defects in our products could increase our costs, decrease our sales and damage our customer relationships and our reputation. The manufacture of our products is a complex process, and it is often difficult for semiconductor foundries to manufacture our products free of defects. Minor deviations in the manufacturing process can cause substantial decreases in yield and quality. In particular, some of our products are highly integrated and incorporate mixed analog and digital signal processing and embedded memory technology and thus are even more difficult to manufacture without defects. The ability to manufacture products of acceptable quality depends on both product design and manufacturing process technology. Defective products can be caused by design, defective materials or component parts or manufacturing difficulties. Thus, quality problems can be identified only by analyzing and testing our display drivers in a system after they have been manufactured. The difficulty in identifying defects is compounded by the uniqueness of the process technology used in each of the semiconductor foundries with which we have subcontracted to manufacture our products. Failure to achieve defect-free products due to their increasing complexity may result in an increase in our costs and delays in the availability of our products. In addition, if foundries we use fail to deliver products of satisfactory quality in the volume and at the price required, we will be unable to meet our customers’ demand for our products or to sell those products at an acceptable profit margin, which could adversely affect our sales and margins and damage our customer relationships and our reputation. We do not have long-term purchase commitments from our customers, which may result in significant uncertainty and volatility with respect to our revenues and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We do not have long-term purchase commitments from our customers; our sales are made on the basis of individual purchase orders. Our customers may also cancel or defer purchase orders. Our customers’ purchase orders may vary significantly from period to period, and it is difficult to forecast future order quantities. In addition, changes in our customers’ business may adversely affect the quantity of purchase orders we receive. For example, one of our customers substantially reduced the utilization rate of its production facilities in late 2005 in connection with its renovation plans and, as a result, the quantity of purchase orders we received from this customer decreased substantially. In 2006, one of our customers merged with another company. As a result of the merger, certain design-win projects were discontinued, which forced us to write-off the corresponding inventory that was prepared based on forecasts provided by the customer. We cannot assure you that any of our customers will continue to place orders with us in the future at the same level as in prior periods. We also cannot assure you that the volume of our customers’ orders will be consistent with our expectations when we plan our expenditures. Our results of operations and financial condition may thus be affected materially and adversely. The concentration of our accounts receivable and the extension of payment terms for our customers exposes us to increased credit risk and could harm our operating results and cash flows. As of December 31, 2006, we had two customers that each represented more than 10% of our accounts receivable balance. CMO and CPT, together with their respective affiliates, represented approximately 50.3% and 14.7%, respectively, of our total accounts receivable as of December 31, 2006. Moreover, we have at times agreed to extend the payment terms for certain of our customers. Other customers have also requested extension of payments terms, and we may grant such requests for extension in the future. As a result, a default by any such customer, a prolonged delay in the payment of accounts receivable or the extension of payment terms for our customers would adversely affect our cash flow, liquidity and our operating results. We depend on sales of display drivers used in TFT-LCD panels, and the absence of continued market acceptance of our display drivers could harm our business. In 2005 and 2006, we derived nearly all of our revenues from the sale of display drivers used in TFT-LCD panels, and we expect to continue to derive a substantial portion of our revenues from these or related products. In particular, display drivers used in large-sized panels represented approximately 87.1% and 86.7% of our revenues in 2005 and 2006, respectively. Continued market acceptance of our display drivers is therefore critical to our future success. 13 Our strategy of expanding our product offerings to liquid crystal on silicon products may not be successful. We have devoted, and intend to continue to devote, financial and management resources to the development, manufacturing and marketing of LCOS products. LCOS products utilize a form of LCD reflective technology to produce images. We believe that end-use products utilizing LCOS products (such as near-to-eye applications, rear projection televisions and mini-projectors) could potentially be a large market. LCOS technology, however, is at a relatively early stage of commercialization and the production of products using LCOS technology at acceptable yields has proven difficult. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop, design and manufacture such products at costs and with performance specifications acceptable to customers. Moreover, the market acceptance of LCOS technology is still unproven. Wide acceptance of LCOS technology would require brand name electronics companies devoting substantial resources to promote products based on this technology. Furthermore, for near-to-eye devices utilizing LCOS technology (such as wearable display devices embedded in goggles or eyewear) to become widely accepted, consumers must first become accustomed to wearing such devices. By devoting resources to the development of LCOS products we may negatively affect the development of our other products. If the LCOS market does not develop as we expect, our LCOS strategy may result in operating losses in this aspect of our business and may adversely affect our results of operations and growth prospects. Potential conflicts of interest with CMO may affect our sales decisions and allocations. Our chairman also holds key management positions at CMO and may not be able to allocate sufficient time and resources to both companies. We have a close relationship with CMO. CMO is one of our largest shareholders and has been our largest customer since our inception, and certain of our directors also hold key management positions at CMO. Jung-Chun Lin, our director, serves on our board and also holds the positions of director, vice president, chief financial officer and chief accounting officer at CMO. Dr. Biing-Seng Wu, our chairman, is also a director, executive vice president and chief technology officer of CMO. We cannot assure you that our close relationship with CMO and potential conflicts of interest will not affect our sales decisions or allocations or that potential conflicts of interest with respect to representatives of CMO will be resolved in our favor. Moreover, Dr. Biing-Seng Wu, who holds key positions with both CMO and us, may not be able to allocate sufficient time and resources to both companies. Our corporate actions are substantially controlled by officers, directors, principal shareholders and affiliated entities who may take actions that are not in, or may conflict with, our or our public shareholders’ interests. As of June 1, 2007, Jordan Wu and Dr. Biing-Seng Wu (who are brothers) beneficially owned approximately 5.5% and 16.0% of our ordinary shares, respectively, and CMO beneficially owned approximately 12.6% of our ordinary shares. For information relating to the beneficial ownership of our ordinary shares, see “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions.” These shareholders, if they acted together, could exert substantial influence over matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including electing directors and approving mergers or other business combination transactions. This concentration of ownership may also discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ADSs. Actions may be taken even if they were opposed by our other shareholders. Assertions by third parties of infringement by us of their intellectual property rights could result in significant costs and cause our operating results to suffer. The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights and positions, which has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation for many companies. We have received, and expect to continue to receive, notices of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. We may receive claims from various industry participants alleging infringement of patents, trade secrets or other intellectual property rights in the future. Any lawsuit resulting from such allegations could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidate our proprietary rights. These lawsuits, regardless of their success, would likely be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert management time and attention. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following: · stop selling products or using technology or manufacturing processes that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property; 14 · pay damages to the party claiming infringement; · attempt to obtain a license for the relevant intellectual property, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all; and · attempt to redesign those products that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property with non-infringing intellectual property, which may not be possible. The outcome of a dispute may result in our need to develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. We have agreed to indemnify certain customers for certain claims of infringement arising out of the sale of our products. Any intellectual property litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Our ability to compete will be harmed if we are unable to protect our intellectual property adequately. We believe that the protection of our intellectual property rights is, and will continue to be, important to the success of our business. We rely primarily on a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright laws and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property. These afford only limited protection. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain, copy or use information that we regard as proprietary, such as product design and manufacturing process expertise. As of December 31, 2006, we and our subsidiaries had 177 U.S. patent applications pending, 217 Taiwan patent applications pending and 134 patent applications pending in other jurisdictions, including the PRC, Japan, Korea and Europe. Our pending patent applications and any future applications may not result in issued patents or may not be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technologies. Moreover, policing any unauthorized use of our products is difficult and costly, and we cannot be certain that the measures we have implemented will prevent misappropriation or unauthorized use of our technologies, particularly in foreign jurisdictions where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as the laws of the United States. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or intellectual property. Our failure to protect our intellectual property effectively could harm our business. We may undertake acquisitions or investments to expand our business that may pose risks to our business and dilute the ownership of our existing shareholders, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions or investments. As part of our growth and product diversification strategy, we will continue to evaluate opportunities to acquire or invest in other businesses, intellectual property or technologies that would complement our current offerings, expand the breadth of markets we can address or enhance our technical capabilities. For example, on February 1, 2007, we acquired Wisepal, a fabless design company located in Taiwan that specializes in TFT-LCD drivers for small- and medium-sized panels. Under the terms of the acquisition, we issued one share in exchange for 5.26 shares of Wisepal (a total of 6,090,114 shares) and we assumed all of the assets, liabilities and personnel of Wisepal. Acquisitions or investments that we may potentially make in the future, including our recent acquisition of Wisepal, entail a number of risks that could materially and adversely affect our business, operating and financial results, including: · problems integrating the acquired operations, technologies or products into our existing business and products; · diversion of management’s time and attention from our core business; · adverse effects on existing business relationships with customers; · need for financial resources above our planned investment levels; · failures in recognizing anticipated synergies; · difficulties in retaining business relationships with suppliers and customers of the acquired company; · risks associated with entering markets in which we lack experience; · potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; 15 · potential write-offs of acquired assets; and · potential expenses related to the depreciation of tangible assets and amortization of intangible assets. Our failure to address these risks successfully may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any such acquisition or investment may require a significant amount of capital investment, which would decrease the amount of cash available for working capital or capital expenditures. In addition, if we use our equity securities to pay for acquisitions, the value of your ADSs and the underlying ordinary shares may be diluted. If we borrow funds to finance acquisitions, such debt instruments may contain restrictive covenants that can, among other things, restrict us from distributing dividends. Risks Related to Our Industry The semiconductor industry, in particular the display driver and television semiconductor solutions segments, is highly competitive, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against our competitors. The semiconductor industry, in particular the display driver and television semiconductor solutions segments, is highly competitive. Increased competition may result in price pressure, reduced profitability and loss of market share, any of which could seriously harm our revenues and results of operations. Competition principally occurs at the design stage, where a customer evaluates alternative design solutions that require display drivers. We continually face intense competition from fabless display driver companies as well as from integrated device manufacturers. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than us with which to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to changing customer demands or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sales of their products than we can. Some of our competitors have manufacturing capabilities as well as in-house design operations that may give them significant advantages such as higher research and development budgets and the ability to attract highly skilled engineers. Furthermore, some of our competitors are affiliated with, or are subsidiaries of, our panel manufacturer customers. These relationships may give our competitors significant advantages, such as early access to product roadmaps and design-in priorities, which allows them to respond more quickly to changing customer demands and achieve more design-wins than we can. In addition, competitors who have no such strategic associations with panel manufacturers may resort to price competition to maintain their market share, which may impose pricing pressures on us, reduce our profitability and decrease our market share. We cannot assure you that we will be able to increase or maintain our revenues and market share, or compete successfully against our current or future competitors in the semiconductor industry. We may be adversely affected by the cyclicality of the semiconductor industry. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by constant and rapid technological change, product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. The semiconductor industry has, from time to time, experienced significant downturns, often connected with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles of both semiconductor companies’ and their customers’ products and declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. Any future downturn may reduce our revenues and result in us having excess inventory. Furthermore, any upturn in the semiconductor industry could result in increased competition for access to limited third-party foundry, assembly and test capacity. Failure to gain access to foundry, assembly and test capacity could impair our ability to secure the supply of products that we need, which could significantly delay our ability to ship our products, cause a loss of revenues and damage our customer relationships. The selling prices of our products could decrease rapidly, which may negatively impact our revenues and operating results. The price of each semiconductor product typically declines over its product life cycle, reflecting product obsolescence, decreased demand as customers shift to more advanced products and increased competition as more semiconductor producers are able to produce similar products in larger quantities. We may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in future operating results if our average selling prices decline. We may reduce the average unit price of our products in response to competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or 16 our competitors and other factors. The TFT-LCD panel market is highly cost sensitive, which may result in declining average selling prices of the components comprising TFT-LCD panels. We expect that these factors will create downward pressure on our average selling prices and operating results. To maintain acceptable operating results, we will need to develop and introduce new products and product enhancements on a timely basis and continue to reduce our costs. If we are unable to offset any reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes and corresponding production cost reductions, or we fail to develop and introduce new products and enhancements on a timely basis, our revenues and operating results will suffer. We have a lengthy and expensive design-to-mass production cycle. The cycle time from the design stage to mass production for display drivers is long and requires the investment of significant resources with each potential customer without any guarantee of sales. Our design-to-mass production cycle typically begins with a three-to-twelve month semiconductor development stage and test period followed by a three-to-twelve month end product development period by customers. This fairly lengthy cycle creates the risk that we may incur significant expenses but be unable to realize meaningful sales. Moreover, prior to mass production, customers may decide to cancel the projects or change production specifications, resulting in sudden changes in our product specifications, further causing increased production time and costs. Failure to meet such specifications may delay the launch of our products. Our business could be materially and adversely affected if we fail to anticipate changes in evolving industry standards, fail to achieve and maintain technological leadership in our industry or fail to develop and introduce new and enhanced products. Our products are generally based on industry standards, which are continually evolving. The emergence of new industry standards could render our products or those of our customers unmarketable or obsolete and may require us to incur substantial unanticipated costs to comply with any such new standards. Likewise, the components used in the TFT-LCD panel industry are constantly changing with increased demand for improved features. Moreover, our past sales and profitability have resulted, to a significant extent, from our ability to anticipate changes in technology and industry standards and to timely develop and introduce new and enhanced products. If we do not anticipate these changes in technologies and rapidly develop and introduce new and innovative technologies, we may not be able to provide advanced display semiconductors on competitive terms, and some of our customers may buy display drivers from our competitors instead of from us. Our continued ability to adapt to such changes and anticipate future standards will be a significant factor in maintaining or improving our competitive position and our growth prospects. We cannot assure you that we will be able to anticipate evolving industry standards, successfully complete the design of our new products, have these products manufactured at acceptable manufacturing yields, or obtain significant purchase orders for these products to meet new standards or technologies. If we fail to anticipate changes in technology and to introduce new products that achieve market acceptance, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Holding Company Structure Our ability to receive dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries may be restricted by commercial, statutory and legal restrictions, and thereby materially and adversely affect our ability to grow, fund investments, make acquisitions, pay dividends and otherwise fund and conduct our business. We are a holding company and our only asset is our 100% ownership interest in Himax Taiwan. Dividends and interest on intercompany loans we receive from our subsidiaries in Taiwan, if any, will be subject to withholding tax under ROC law. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends, repay intercompany loans from us or make other distributions to us is restricted by, among other things, the availability of funds, the terms of various credit arrangements entered into by our subsidiaries, as well as statutory and other legal restrictions, including the ROC government’s right to revoke repatriation of profits. See “— Political, Geographical and Economic Risks — If we failed to satisfy the undertakings we made to the ROC Investment Commission in connection with our application seeking approval of the share exchange, the ROC Investment Commission could take actions against us that would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and decrease the value of our ADSs.” In addition, although there are currently no foreign exchange control regulations which restrict the ability of our subsidiaries located in Taiwan to distribute dividends to us, we cannot assure you that the relevant regulations will not be changed and that the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute dividends to us will not be 17 restricted in the future. A Taiwan company is generally not permitted to distribute dividends or to make any other distributions to shareholders for any year in which it did not have either earnings or retained earnings (excluding reserves). In addition, before distributing a dividend to shareholders following the end of a fiscal year, the company must recover any past losses, pay all outstanding taxes and set aside 10% of its annual net income (less prior years’ losses and outstanding taxes) as a legal reserve until the accumulated legal reserve equals its paid-in capital, and may set aside a special reserve. Any limitation on dividend payments by our subsidiaries could materially and adversely affect our ability to grow, finance capital expenditures, make acquisitions, pay dividends, and otherwise fund and conduct our business. Our ability to make further investments in Himax Taiwan may be dependent on regulatory approvals. If Himax Taiwan is unable to receive the equity financing it requires, its ability to grow and fund its operations may be materially and adversely affected. Since Himax Taiwan is not a listed company, it generally depends on us to meet its equity financing requirements. Any capital contribution by us to Himax Taiwan may require the approval of the relevant ROC authorities such as the Investment Commission of the Ministry of Economic Affairs of the ROC, or the ROC Investment Commission. We may not be able to obtain any such approval in the future in a timely manner, or at all. If Himax Taiwan is unable to receive the equity financing it requires, its ability to grow and fund its operations may be materially and adversely affected. Political, Geographical and Economic Risks Due to the location of our operations in Taiwan, we and many of our semiconductor manufacturing service providers, suppliers and customers are vulnerable to natural disasters and other events outside of our control, which may seriously disrupt our operations. Most of our operations, and the operations of many of our semiconductor manufacturing service providers, suppliers and customers are located in Taiwan, which is vulnerable to natural disasters, in particular, earthquakes and typhoons. Our principal foundries and assembly and testing houses upon which we have relied to manufacture substantially all of our display drivers are located in Taiwan. In 2006, approximately 81.4% of our revenues was derived from customers headquartered in Taiwan. As a result of this geographic concentration, disruption of operations at our facilities or the facilities of our semiconductor manufacturing service providers, suppliers and customers for any reason, including work stoppages, power outages, water supply shortages, fire, typhoons, earthquakes, contagious diseases or other natural disasters, could cause delays in production and shipments of our products. Any delays or disruptions could result in our customers seeking to source products from our competitors. Shortages or suspension of power supplies have occasionally occurred and have disrupted our operations. The occurrence of a power outage in the future could seriously hurt our business. The manufacturing processes of TFT-LCD panels require a substantial amount of water and as a result, the production operations of TFT-LCD panels may be seriously disrupted by water shortages. Our customers may encounter droughts in areas where most of their current or future manufacturing sites are located. If a drought were to occur and our customers or the authorities were unable to source water from alternative sources in sufficient quantity, our customers may be required to shut down temporarily or to substantially reduce the operations of their fabs, which would seriously affect demand for our products. The occurrence of any of these events in the future could adversely affect our business. Strained relations between the PRC and the ROC could negatively affect our business and the market price of our ADSs. Our principal executive offices and a substantial amount of our assets are located in Taiwan, and a substantial portion of our revenues is derived from our operations in Taiwan. Accordingly, our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market price of our ADSs may be affected by changes in ROC governmental policies, taxation, inflation or interest rates, and by social instability and diplomatic and social developments in or affecting Taiwan that are outside of our control. Taiwan has a unique international political status. Since 1949, Taiwan and the PRC have been separately governed. The government of the PRC claims that it is the sole government in China and that Taiwan is part of 18 China. Although significant economic and cultural relations have been established during recent years between Taiwan and the PRC, the PRC government has refused to renounce the possibility that it may at some point use force to gain control over Taiwan. Furthermore, the PRC government recently adopted an anti-secession law relating to Taiwan. Relations between the ROC and the PRC governments have been strained in recent years for a variety of reasons, including the PRC government’s position on the “One China” policy and tensions concerning arms sales to Taiwan by the United States government. Any tension between ROC and the PRC, or between the United States and the PRC, could materially and adversely affect the market prices of our ADSs. If the U.S. dollar fluctuates significantly against the NT dollar, our profitability may be affected. We have foreign currency exposure, and are primarily affected by fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the NT dollar. Although 97.0% our revenues and 86.0% of our cost of revenues were denominated in U.S. dollars in 2006, the majority of our operating expenses (including for research and development, general and administrative, and sales and marketing expenses) are denominated in NT dollars. For example, in December 2006 approximately 63.0% of our operating expenses were denominated in NT dollars, with less than 2.0% denominated in Japanese Yen, Korean Won and Chinese Renminbi combined, and the remainder in U.S. dollars. From time to time, we enter into forward contracts to hedge our foreign currency exposure, but we cannot assure you that this will adequately protect against us the risk of exchange rate fluctuations and reduce the impact on our results of operations. A decrease in the support of the ROC government may increase our tax expenditures and decrease our net income. The ROC government has been very supportive of Taiwan-incorporated technology companies such as Himax Taiwan. In particular, Himax Taiwan, like many Taiwan technology companies, has benefited from substantial tax incentives provided by the ROC government. The ROC Statute for Upgrading Industries entitles companies to tax credits for expenses relating to qualifying research and development, personnel training and purchases of qualifying machinery. This tax credit may be applied within a five-year period. The amount from the tax credit that may be applied in any year is limited to 50% of the income tax payable for that year (with the exception of the final year when the remainder of the tax credit may be applied without limitation to the total amount of the income tax). Under the ROC Statute for Upgrading Industries, Himax Taiwan was granted tax credits by the ROC Ministry of Finance at rates set at a certain percentage of the amount utilized in qualifying research and development and personnel training expenses. The balance of unused investment tax credits totaled $4.7 million, $9.4 million, and $19.4 million as of December 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. In addition, the ROC Statute for Upgrading Industries provides to companies deemed to be operating in important or strategic industries a five-year tax exemption for income attributable to expanded production capacity or newly developed technologies. Such expanded production capacity or newly developed technologies must be funded in whole or in part from either initial capital investment made by a company’s shareholders, a subsequent capital increase or a capitalizing of a company’s retained earnings. Beginning April 1, 2004 and January 1, 2006, Himax Taiwan has been entitled to two preferential tax treatments each for a period of five years, which expires on March 31, 2009 and December 31, 2010, respectively. As a result of this preferential tax treatment, income attributable to certain of our expanded production capacity or newly developed technologies is tax exempt for the duration of these five-year periods. If the ROC government changed the laws to terminate, decrease or otherwise adversely change such tax incentives, our tax expenditures could increase, resulting in a decrease in our net income. For instance, if we did not have this tax exemption, net income and basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share would have been $59.2 million, $0.31 and $0.30 for the year ended December 31, 2006, respectively. If we failed to satisfy the undertakings we made to the ROC Investment Commission in connection with our application seeking approval of the share exchange, the ROC Investment Commission could take actions against us that would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and decrease the value of our ADSs. Our current corporate structure was established through a share exchange, which became effective on October 14, 2005, between us and the former shareholders of Himax Taiwan. The share exchange was subject to the review and approval of the ROC Investment Commission, an agency under the administration of the ROC Ministry of Economic Affairs established for the purposes of promoting Taiwan’s economic development and attracting foreign investments. It has supervisory and regulatory authority for matters relating to, among other things, inbound 19 investments in Taiwanese companies by non-ROC persons and overseas ROC nationals, and outbound investments by Taiwanese companies or individuals. In connection with our application seeking approval of the share exchange, we and Himax Taiwan made the following undertakings to the ROC Investment Commission: · to purchase three hectares of land in connection with the construction of our new headquarters in Tainan, Taiwan; · to increase the number of employees in Taiwan to 430 employees, 475 employees and 520 employees by the end of 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively; and · to invest no less than $24.4 million (NT$800.0 million), $27.6 million (NT$900.0 million) and $30.7 million (NT$1.0 billion) for research and development in Taiwan in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively, which may be satisfied through cash-based compensation paid to research and development personnel but not through non-cash share-based compensation. The undertakings do not specify, and the ROC Investment Commission has not required, that the required personnel and research and development expenditures be directed for any particular purpose. Instead, these undertakings allow management discretion on the utilization of such resources. We made the undertakings as assurances of our commitment to invest in Taiwan based on our business plan, the expected growth in 2005, 2006 and 2007 and our anticipated requirements with respect to our headquarter expansion plans, employee headcount projections and research and development requirements. The ROC Investment Commission approved the share exchange subject to our satisfying the above-mentioned undertakings. The failure to satisfy these undertakings could have the following material adverse consequences: Revocation of the Right of Repatriation of Profits. The ROC Investment Commission can (at its discretion) revoke Himax Taiwan’s right to repatriate profits to us. Since we rely on dividend payments from Himax Taiwan, such a restriction would adversely affect our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Revocation of the Approval of the Share Exchange. The ROC Investment Commission has the right (at its discretion) to revoke its approval of the share exchange. Prior to exercising this right, in practice we and Himax Taiwan would be notified and given an opportunity to be heard. There are no promulgated rules or regulations setting forth the factors that the ROC Investment Commission would consider in exercising its discretion. Each case is determined individually. Such a revocation could have any of the following material adverse consequences: · We may face difficulties obtaining subsequent ROC Investment Commission approvals for additional investments in Himax Taiwan, including further equity investments such as cash or asset contributions and inter-company loans from us. · We may face difficulties obtaining approval from the ROC Central Bank of China to transfer the net proceeds of capital raising efforts to Himax Taiwan. Any restriction on our ability to transfer the net proceeds of our capital raising to Himax Taiwan would effectively limit Himax Taiwan’s ability to access the capital markets through us since we are a holding company with no operations and the use of proceeds for any capital raised by us would be for the operations of Himax Taiwan through which substantially all of our operations are conducted. · Himax Taiwan may also lose its status as a foreign-invested company under the ROC Statute for Investment by Foreign Nationals, resulting in the loss of certain protections, including the protection from possible expropriation of the company’s assets. Although we intend to discharge our undertakings to the ROC Investment Commission, and have done so with respect to the undertakings in 2005 and 2006, we cannot assure you that we will be able to satisfy the remaining undertakings. To the extent that we experience no or negative revenue growth as a result of significant company-specific or industry-wide events, we would be limited in our ability to adjust our headcount and research and 20 development expenditures in response to those events. In this case, these undertakings would restrict our operational flexibility and adversely affect our operating margins and results of operations. Nor can we assure you that we would be successful in amending the undertakings if necessary or in appealing to reverse a decision to revoke Himax Taiwan’s right to repatriate profits or the share exchange approval. The occurrence of either revocation would have a material and adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations and decrease the value of our ADSs. We face risks related to health epidemics and outbreaks of contagious diseases, including avian influenza and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS. There have been recent reports of outbreaks of a highly pathogenic avian influenza, or avian flu, caused by the H5N1 virus in certain regions of Asia, Europe, the Middle East and Africa. An outbreak of avian flu in the human population could result in a widespread health crisis that could adversely affect the economies and financial markets of many countries, particularly in Asia. Additionally, a recurrence of SARS, a highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia, similar to the occurrence in 2003 which affected PRC, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore, Vietnam and certain other countries, would also have similar adverse effects. Since all of our operations and substantially all of our customers and suppliers are based in Asia (mainly Taiwan), an outbreak of avian flu, SARS or other contagious diseases in Asia or elsewhere, or the perception that such outbreak could occur, and the measures taken by the governments of countries affected, including the ROC and the PRC, would adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to our ADSs and our Trading Market The market price for our ADSs may be volatile. The market price for our ADSs is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; · changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; · conditions in TFT-LCD panel market; · changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other display semiconductor companies; · announcements by us or our competitors of new products, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · addition or departure of key personnel; · fluctuations of exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and NT dollar; · litigation related to our intellectual property; and · release of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ADSs or sales of additional ADSs. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. Future sales or perceived sales of securities by us, our executive officers, directors or major shareholders may hurt the price of our ADSs. The market price of our ADSs could decline as a result of sales of ADSs or shares or the perception that these sales could occur. As of June 1, 2007, we had 197,656,063 outstanding shares all of which are freely tradable. If we, our executive officers, directors or our shareholders, sell ADSs or shares, the market price for our shares or ADSs could decline. Future sales, or the perception of future sales, of ADSs or shares by us, our executive officers, directors or existing shareholders could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. 21 You may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our ordinary shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise your right to vote. Except as described in the deposit agreement, holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the shares evidenced by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs will appoint the depositary or its nominee as their representative to exercise the voting rights attaching to the shares represented by the ADSs. In certain circumstances, however, the depositary shall refrain from voting and any voting instructions received from ADS holders shall lapse. Furthermore, in certain other circumstances, the depositary will give us a discretionary proxy to vote shares evidenced by ADSs. You may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote, and it is possible that you, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings as a result. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will not offer those rights to ADS holders unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. In addition, we may not be able to take advantage of any exemptions from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings as a result. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs represented by the ADRs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it necessary or advisable to do so because of any requirement of law, any government, governmental body, commission, or any securities exchange on which our ADSs or our ordinary shares are listed, or under any provision of the deposit agreement or provisions of, or governing, the deposited securities or any meeting of our shareholders, or for any other reason. Your ability to protect your rights through the United States federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law, conduct a substantial portion of our operations in Taiwan and all of our directors and officers reside outside the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands. A substantial portion of our operations is conducted in Taiwan through Himax Taiwan, our wholly owned subsidiary, and substantially all of our assets are located in Taiwan. All of our directors and officers reside outside the United States, and a substantial portion of the assets of those persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the United States in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of Taiwan may render you unable to enforce a United States judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will generally recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against our management, directors or major shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. 22 You may face difficulties in protecting your interests as a shareholder because judicial precedents regarding shareholders’ rights are more limited under Cayman Islands law than under U.S. law, and because Cayman Islands law generally provides less protection to shareholders than U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands have a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. For example, the Cayman Islands Companies Law differs from laws applicable to United States corporations and their shareholders in certain material respects which may affect shareholders’ rights and shareholders’ access to information. These differences under Cayman Islands Companies Law (as compared to Delaware law) include, though are not limited to, the following: · directors who are interested in a transaction do not have a statutory duty to disclose such interest and there are no provisions under Cayman Islands Companies Law which render such director liable to the company for any profit realized pursuant to such transaction; · dissenting shareholders do not have appraisal rights if a scheme of arrangement is approved by the Grand Court of the Cayman Islands; · shareholders may not be able to bring class action or derivative action suits before a Cayman Islands court; and · unless otherwise provided under the memorandum and articles of association of the company, shareholders do not have the right to bring business before a meeting or call a meeting. Moreover, certain of these differences in corporate law, including, for example, the fact that shareholders do not have the right to call a meeting or bring business to a meeting, may have anti-takeover effects which could discourage, delay, or prevent the merger or acquisition of our company by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise, that a shareholder may consider in its best interest, and the removal of incumbent officers and directors. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would have as public shareholders of a U.S. company. Investor confidence and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely impacted if we or our independent registered public accountants conclude we have one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The SEC, as directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring public companies to include in their Annual Report on Form 10-K or Form 20-F, as the case may be, a report of management on the company’s internal controls over financial reporting that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, the company’s independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. These requirements will first apply to our Annual Report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. Our management may conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective. Moreover, even if our management does conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, if our independent registered public accounting firm is not satisfied with our internal controls, the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or 23 reviewed, or if our independent registered public accounting firm interprets the requirements, rules or regulations differently from us, then it may decline to attest to our management’s assessment or may issue an adverse or qualified report. Furthermore, effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and is important to help prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. We have had control deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting in the past and cannot assure you that additional deficiencies or material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. Our reporting obligations as a public company will continue to place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. Prior to our initial public offering, we were a newly established private company with limited accounting personnel and other resources with which to address our internal controls and procedures. As a result, in connection with the audit of our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2004, our independent registered public accounting firm identified two control deficiencies that were significant deficiencies in our internal control procedures which, in their judgment, could adversely affect our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial data consistent with the assertions of our management in the financial statements. A significant deficiency is a control deficiency, or a combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a more than inconsequential misstatement of the company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Specifically, the control deficiencies identified consisted of (1) a lack of personnel with significant U.S. GAAP reporting experience necessary to identify and resolve certain complex U.S. GAAP matters in a timely manner, and (2) the use of manual accounting systems that carry a risk of inconsistent operation, are subject to human error and do not enable timely recording of transactions. In connection with the audit of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005 our independent registered accounting firm did not identify any significant deficiencies but continued to identify our use of manual accounting systems as a control deficiency and identified two additional control deficiencies related to the lack of a systematic approach for monitoring contracts with accounting implications and the lack of an automated credit control system. Our independent registered accounting firm also did not identify any significant deficiencies in connection with the audit of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2006, but continued to identify our use of manual accounting systems and our incomplete and ongoing implementation of an automated credit control system as control deficiencies. One additional control deficiency was identified relating to our current approach for the estimation of the annual effective tax rate for interim financial reporting which may lack the precision to reliably estimate income taxes attributable to interim financial reporting periods. We intend to involve our relevant departments in a joint effort to further improve upon the current approach to derive the best possible estimation of the annual effective tax rate for interim periods of financial reporting. We plan to remediate the above-mentioned control deficiency in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to remedy this control deficiency or that additional significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. If the significant deficiencies reported by our independent registered public accounting firm are to recur, or if we identify additional weaknesses or fail to implement new or improved controls successfully in a timely manner, our ability to assure timely and accurate financial reporting may be adversely affected, we may be required to restate our financial statements, and investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs, result in lawsuits being filed against us by our shareholders, or otherwise harm our reputation. Significant resources from our management team and additional expenses have been, and may continue to be, required to implement and maintain effective controls and procedures in order to remedy the above-mentioned control deficiencies and any additional weaknesses we and our independent registered public accounting firm may identify in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. We have hired, and may need to continue to hire, additional employees and outside consultants with accounting and financial reporting experience (particularly 24 those with U.S. GAAP reporting experience) and further train our existing employees. If additional personnel are needed, we cannot assure you that we will be able to recruit qualified personnel in a timely and cost-efficient manner to meet our requirements. We may become a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors. Based on the nature of our business, we do not expect to be a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our current taxable year. However, whether or not we are a PFIC for any taxable year will be based in part on the character of our income and assets and the value of our assets from time to time, which will be based in part on the trading price of our ADSs, which may be volatile. Accordingly, it is possible that we may be a PFIC for any taxable year. If we were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. investor held an ordinary share or ADS, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could apply to the U.S. investor. See “Item 10E. Taxation.” ITEM 