Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should consider the risks described below that we believe may be material to investors in evaluating the Company. This section contains forward-looking statements, and in considering these statements, you should refer to the qualifications and limitations on our forward-looking statements that are described in SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT before the beginning of Item 1. Global economic conditions and market disruptions may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As widely reported, financial markets and economic conditions throughout the world have been experiencing extreme disruption, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others, failure and potential failures of major financial institutions, unprecedented government support of financial institutions and increased needs for revenue and higher unemployment rates. These developments and the related general global economic downturn, including in the U.S. and Australia, has and may continue to adversely impact our business and financial condition, as well as the ability of our customers and suppliers to obtain financing to perform their obligations to us. Though we are strengthening our efforts to collections and inventory control, continued worsening of conditions could negatively impact our ability to collect trade receivables on a timely basis, could result in additional reserves for uncollectible accounts and, in the event of continued contraction in container and modular unit sales and leasing, could lead to a further build-up of inventory and lease fleet levels. These factors would have a further adverse impact on operating results and cash flows. In addition, fluctuations in the rates of exchange for the U.S. dollar against the Australian and New Zealand dollars could not only continue to significantly affect our results of operations through reported foreign exchange gains and losses on U.S.-denominated debt, but if the Australian and New Zealand dollars weaken, it would result in lower than anticipated reported revenues and profitability as a result of the translation of Royal Wolf’s financial results into U.S. dollars. We are in compliance with our financial covenants under our senior credit facilities and senior subordinated notes. However, if the current environments in the U.S. and Australian economies continue to be weak or worsen, our ability to meet our covenant requirements may be impaired and may result in our seeking amendments or waivers of covenant compliance. While we believe our relationships with our senior lenders are good, there is no assurance that they would consent to such an amendment or waiver in the event of noncompliance; or that such consent would not be conditioned upon the receipt of a cash payment, revised principal payout terms, increased interest rates, or restrictions in the expansion of the credit facilities for the foreseeable future; or that our senior lenders would not exercise rights that would be available to them; including, among other things, demanding payment of outstanding borrowings. In addition, our ability to obtain additional capital at reasonable rates, including through the issuance of our preferred stock, has been and may continue to be adversely affected by the current conditions in the financial markets. All or any of these adverse events would further limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to downturns in our business. We are unable to predict the duration and severity of the current economic downturn and disruption in financial markets or their effects on our business and results of operations, but the consequences may be materially adverse and more severe than other recent economic slowdowns. We operate with a significant amount of long-term debt, which is secured by all or substantially all of our assets, subject to variable interest rates and contain restrictive covenants. As of June 30, 2009, we had outstanding approximately $200.3 million of indebtedness, primarily under our existing secured senior credit facilities and secured subordinated notes at Royal Wolf and Pac-Van. Reference is made to Notes 5 and 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of our long-term debt and obligations. Our substantial indebtedness could have adverse consequences, such as: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations at Royal Wolf and Pac-Van to payments on our indebtedness, which could reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • expose us to the risk of increased interest rates, as our borrowings on our secured senior credit facilities are at variable rates of interest; • require us to sell assets to reduce indebtedness or influence our decisions about whether to do so; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or pursuing business opportunities; 22 Table of Contents • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds; and • violating covenants in these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations; including substantially increasing our cost of borrowing and restricting our future operations, if not cured or waived. In addition, the lenders may be able to terminate any commitments they had made to supply us with further funds. Accordingly, we may not be able to fully repay our debt obligations, if some or all of our debt obligations are accelerated upon an event of default. Our senior credit and subordinated notes agreements also contain various restrictive covenants that limit the operations of our business. In particular, these agreements include covenants and restrictions relating to: • payments and distributions to GFN, • liens and sale-leaseback transactions, • loans and investments, • debt and hedging arrangements, • mergers, acquisitions and asset sales, • transactions with affiliates, and • changes in business activities. Subsequent to July 1, 2011, we may be required to satisfy Bison Capital’s put option for Bison Capital’s 13.8% interest in GFN U.S. We entered into a shareholders agreement with Bison Capital with respect to our 86.2% and Bison Capital’s 13.8% ownership interest in GFN U.S., which indirectly owns Royal Wolf. Under our shareholders agreement with Bison Capital, at any time after July 1, 2011, Bison Capital has the option to cause us to purchase from them all of its 13.8% outstanding capital stock of GFN U.S. If Bison Capital exercises its put option and we do not have the required cash readily available, we may be required to take certain actions, such as selling assets, seeking additional capital (including issuing GFN common stock), or reducing or delaying capital expenditures and acquisition activity, in order to obtain the necessary capital to satisfy the payment to Bison Capital. The satisfaction of this contingent obligation or any of these actions, particularly under unfavorable market conditions, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Reference is made to Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding the shareholders agreement with Bison Capital. Our overall financial results will be affected by the relative value of the Australian dollar to the U.S. dollar and may be affected by other currencies with future acquisitions. We purchase a portion of our lease fleet in Australia in U.S. dollars and have certain U.S. dollar-denominated debt at Royal Wolf, including the secured subordinated notes due Bison Capital and intercompany borrowings, which are remeasured at each financial reporting date with the impact of the remeasurement being recorded in our consolidated statements of operations. Unrealized gains and losses resulting from such remeasurement due to changes in the Australian exchange rate to the U.S. dollar not hedged could have a significant impact in our reported results of operations, as well as any realized gains and losses from the payments on such U.S. dollar-denominated debt and intercompany borrowings. In addition, a weakening in the Australian or New Zealand dollars could result in lower than anticipated reported revenues and profitability as a result of the translation of Royal Wolf’s financial results into U.S. dollars. A write-off of all or a part of our goodwill and intangibles would hurt our operating results and reduce our stockholders’ equity. As a result of our acquisitions of Royal Wolf, Pac-Van and other smaller businesses, we have recorded significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets. Goodwill represents the excess of the total purchase price of these acquisitions over the fair value of the net assets acquired. We are not permitted to amortize goodwill under U.S. accounting standards and instead we review goodwill, as well as intangible assets, at least annually for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of acquired businesses, adverse market conditions, stock price, and adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of the acquired business. In the event impairment is identified, a charge to earnings would be recorded. Although it does not affect our cash flow, a write-off of all or a part of our goodwill or intangibles would adversely affect our operating results and stockholders’ equity. Reference is made to Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding goodwill and intangible assets. 23 Table of Contents Future acquisitions of businesses could subject us to additional business, operating and industry risks, the impact of which cannot presently be evaluated, and could adversely impact our capital structure. The global economic downturn discussed above is having a negative impact upon our business and we have responded by making a determined effort to reduce personnel costs, capital expenditures, discretionary spending and curtail acquisition activity. While this is our approach for the foreseeable future, we intend to eventually commence pursuing additional acquisition opportunities in an effort to diversify our investments and/or grow our business. Any business we acquire may cause us to be affected by numerous risks inherent in the acquired business’s operations. If we acquire a business in an industry characterized by a high level of risk, we may be affected by the currently unascertainable risks of that industry. Although we will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular industry or target business, we cannot assure that we will be able to properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. In addition, the financing of any acquisition we complete could adversely impact our capital structure as any such financing would likely include the issuance of additional equity securities and/or the borrowing of additional funds. The issuance of additional equity securities may significantly reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and/or adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Increasing our indebtedness could increase the risk of a default that would entitle the holder to declare all of such indebtedness due and payable and/or to seize any collateral securing the indebtedness. In addition, default under one debt instrument could in turn permit lenders under other debt instruments to declare borrowings outstanding under those other instruments to be due and payable pursuant to cross default clauses. Accordingly, the financing of future acquisitions could adversely impact our capital structure and any equity interests in our company. While part of our long-term business strategy is to acquire additional businesses, there is no assurance that we will be able to identify businesses that we can acquire upon terms we believe acceptable, or if such acquisitions require additional financing, that we could obtain such additional financing. If we do seek to complete other acquisitions, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for other future transactions. We cannot assure that, if required, additional financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular acquisition, we would be compelled to either restructure the transaction or abandon that particular acquisition. In addition, if we consummate a future acquisition, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing may impact the continued development or growth of the target business. Our long-term growth could strain our management resources. Our future performance will depend in large part on our ability to manage our long-term planned growth that could strain our existing management, human and other resources. To successfully manage this growth, we must continue to add managers and employees and improve our operating, financial and other internal procedures and controls. We also must effectively motivate, train and manage employees. If we do not manage our growth effectively, it would adversely affect our future operating results. Our long-term growth plan includes the expansion of operations into markets outside of the United States, Australia and New Zealand, including Asia/Pacific and European markets. Such international expansion may not prove successful, and may divert significant capital, resources and management’s time and attention and adversely affect our on-going operations. To date, we have conducted all of our business within the United States, Australia and New Zealand. However, we have intentions to enter international markets, including the Asia/Pacific and European markets, in the future, which will require substantial amounts of management time and attention. Our products and overall marketing approach may not be accepted in other markets to the extent needed to make our international expansion profitable. In addition, the additional demands on management from these activities may detract from our efforts in the United States, Australian and New Zealand markets and adversely affect our operating results in these principal markets. Any international expansion will expose us to the risks normally associated with conducting international business operations, including unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, changes in foreign legislation, possible foreign currency controls, currency exchange rate fluctuations or devaluations, tariffs, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, difficulties in obtaining and managing vendors and distributors, potential negative tax consequences and difficulties collecting accounts receivable. 24 Table of Contents To complete future business combinations, we may issue shares of our capital stock that would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and could cause a change in control of our ownership, or incur debt, which could adversely affect our financial condition. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 100,000,000 shares of common stock and up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock. At June 30, 2009, there were 73,743,568 authorized shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants and options that may be issued under our 2006 Stock Option Plan). If we seek to consummate future business combinations, we may be required to issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, to complete the other business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: • may significantly reduce the equity interest of investors; • may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded to our common stock; • may cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and • may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. In addition, we may incur substantial debt to complete another business combination. The incurrence of debt could result in: • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; • our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; and • our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt security instrument covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt instrument is outstanding. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for stockholders to resell common stock when they want or at a price they find attractive. We expect that the market price of our common stock will fluctuate. Our common stock price can fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in interest rates and other general economic conditions; • significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors; • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; • news reports relating to trends, concerns, litigation, regulatory changes and other issues in our industry; • geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts; and • relatively low trading volume. If equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock will rely in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. We do not control these analysts. The price of our stock could decline if one or more equity analysts downgrade our stock or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock, which may limit the return on your investment in us. Except for payment of dividends on our preferred stock, we currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. 25 Table of Contents Our outstanding options and warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of common stock and increase the difficulty of effecting future business combinations. At June 30, 2009, we had outstanding options and warrants to purchase 6,332,380 shares of common stock. The potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares of common stock upon exercise of these warrants and option could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business. Such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants and options could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future financing. We may choose to redeem outstanding warrants at a time that is disadvantageous to our warrant holders. Subject to there being a current prospectus under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, with respect to the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants issued as a part of the units in our initial public offering, we may redeem the warrants at any time after the warrants become exercisable, in whole and not in part, at a price of $.01 per warrant, upon a minimum of 30 days prior written notice of redemption, if and only if, the last sales price of our common stock equals or exceeds $11.50 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period ending three business days before the notice of redemption is sent. We may also elect to reduce the warrant price in our sole discretion to encourage warrant holders to exercise their warrants to purchase our common stock. Redemption of the warrants could force the warrant holders (i) to exercise the warrants and pay the exercise price therefore at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so, (ii) to sell the warrants at the then current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants, or (iii) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants. Although we are required to (and intend to) use our best efforts to have an effective registration statement covering the issuance of the shares underlying the warrants issued in our initial public offering at the time that the warrant holders exercise their warrants, we cannot guarantee that a registration statement will be effective, in which case the warrant holders may not be able to exercise their warrants. Holders of the warrants issued in our initial public offering will be able to receive shares upon exercise of the warrants only if (i) a current registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 relating to the shares of common stock underlying the warrants is then effective and (ii) such shares are qualified for sale or exempt from qualification under the applicable securities laws of the states in which the various holders of warrants reside. Although we have agreed in the warrant agreement, and therefore have a contractual obligation, to use our best efforts to maintain a current registration statement covering the shares underlying the warrants to the extent required by federal securities laws, and we intend to comply with such agreement, we cannot give assurance that we will be able to do so. In addition, some states may not permit us to register the shares issuable upon exercise of our warrants for sale. The value of the warrants will be greatly reduced if a registration statement covering the shares issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not kept current or if the securities are not qualified, or exempt from qualification, in the states in which the holders of warrants reside. Holders of warrants who reside in jurisdictions in which the shares underlying the warrants are not qualified and in which there is no exemption will be unable to exercise their warrants and would either have to sell their warrants in the open market or allow them to expire unexercised. If and when the warrants become redeemable by us, we may exercise our redemption right even if we are unable to qualify the underlying securities for sale under all applicable state securities laws. Significant Risks Related Primarily to Our Operations in the Asia-Pacific Area Sales of storage container units constitute a significant portion of Royal Wolf’s revenues. Failure to continue to sell units at historic levels could adversely affect our financial results and our ability to grow. Sales of storage units and related modification revenues constituted approximately 61% of Royal Wolf total revenues for the year ended June 30, 2009. Sales are strongly correlated with overall economic conditions, especially the natural resources sectors. Revenues from sales of storage units have a material impact on our financial results and our ability to service our debt. Further, the funding of the growth of the lease fleet is dependent upon the sales of storage container units to take advantage of business and growth opportunities available to it. 26 Table of Contents The failure of Royal Wolf to achieve its business strategy of increasing its leasing revenue could adversely affect the predictability of our quarterly earnings results and adversely affect our results of operations. Historically, prior to the year ended June 30, 2009, sales generated approximately 70% of Royal Wolf’s revenue and leasing generated approximately 30% of Royal Wolf’s revenue. We are pursuing a strategy of increasing revenue generated from leasing operations. Revenues generated from sales can vary greatly from quarter to quarter, while revenue from leasing operations is more predictable and has better margins. If we are not successful in increasing the percentage of our revenues generated by our leasing operations, our results of operations may vary greatly quarter to quarter, and would therefore be less predictable. In addition, if we are not successful in increasing the percentage of our revenues from our leasing operations, our results of operations may be adversely affected. General or localized economic downturns or weakness may adversely affect Royal Wolf’s customers, in particular those in the mining and moving and storage industries, which may reduce demand for Royal Wolf’s products and services which would negatively impact our future revenues and results of operations. A significant portion of Royal Wolf’s revenues is derived from customers in industries and businesses that are cyclical in nature and subject to changes in general economic conditions, including the mining, transport (road and rail) and construction industries, which aggregated approximately 45% of Royal Wolf’s revenues in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. Although we believe the variety of Royal Wolf’s products, the breadth of its customer base and its geographic diversity throughout Australia reduces its exposure to economic downturns, general economic downturns or localized downturns in markets where its operates could reduce demand for Royal Wolf’s products and negatively impact our future revenues and results of operations. Royal Wolf faces significant competition in the portable buildings industry and regional competition in the portable storage market. Royal Wolf also faces potentially significant competition from modular industry companies who have portable storage offerings, especially from several national competitors in Australia who have greater financial resources and pricing flexibility than Royal Wolf does. If Royal Wolf is unable to compete successfully in these industries, it could lose customers and our future revenues could decline. Although Royal Wolf’s competition varies significantly by market, the portable buildings market in which Royal Wolf competes is dominated by three or four large participants and is highly competitive. In addition, Royal Wolf competes with a number of large to mid-sized regional competitors, as well as many smaller, full and part-time operators in many local regions. The modular space industry is highly competitive and almost all of the competitors have portable storage product offerings. The primary modular national competitors with portable storage offerings are less leveraged than Royal Wolf, and have greater financial resources and pricing flexibility than Royal Wolf does. If they focus on portable storage, Royal Wolf could lose customers and our future revenues could decline. If Royal Wolf is unable to compete successfully in these markets, it could lose customers and our future revenues could decline. Our customers lease our storage container products on primarily a month-to-month basis, and our results of operations could be adversely affected by a downturn in economic activity. Should a significant number of Royal Wolf’s storage container products be returned by customers during a short period of time, Royal Wolf would have to lease to new customers a large supply of units at similar rates in order to maintain historic revenues from these operations. Royal Wolf’s failure to effectively lease to new customers a large influx of units returned by customers from leases could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Failure to retain key personnel could adversely affect Royal Wolf’s operations and could impede our ability to execute our business plan and growth strategy. Royal Wolf is managed largely by its existing officers, including Robert Allan, its Chief Executive Officer, and Peter McCann, its Chief Financial Officer. The continued success of Royal Wolf will depend largely on the efforts and abilities of these executive officers and certain other key employees. The members of the senior management team of Royal Wolf have substantial experience in the equipment leasing industry. These key employees have knowledge and an understanding of Royal Wolf and its industry that cannot be readily duplicated. Each of Messrs. Allan and McCann has an employment agreement which is terminable under certain circumstances upon notice to him. However, we do not have key-man insurance on any of these key personnel. The loss of any member of Royal Wolf’s senior management team could impair our ability to execute our business plan and growth strategy, cause a loss of customers, reduce revenues and adversely affect employee morale. Failure by storage container suppliers to deliver storage container products to Royal Wolf could adversely affect its operations. The failure of one or more storage container suppliers to deliver or timely deliver storage containers to Royal Wolf could harm its reputation with customers. If Royal Wolf is unable to fulfill customer orders due to delivery failures by its suppliers, Royal Wolf’s results of operations could be harmed. 27 Table of Contents Significant Risks Related to Primarily Our Business and Operations in the United States General or localized economic downturns or weakness may adversely affect Pac-Van’s customers, in particular those in the construction industry, which may reduce demand for Pac-Van’s products and services and negatively impact our future revenues and results of operations. A significant portion of Pac-Van’s revenues is derived from customers who are in industries and businesses that are cyclical in nature and subject to changes in general economic conditions, including the construction industry, which constituted over 40% of Pac-Van’s revenues for the year ended June 30, 2009. Although the variety of Pac-Van’s products, the breadth of its customer base and its geographic diversity throughout the United States limits its exposure to economic downturns, general economic downturns or localized downturns in markets where its operates could reduce demand for Pac-Van’s products, especially in the construction industry, and negatively impact our future revenues and results of operations. Pac-Van faces significant competition in the modular buildings and portable storage industries. Pac-Van also faces potentially significant competition from modular buildings companies who have portable storage product offerings, especially from several national competitors in the United States who have greater financial resources and pricing flexibility than Pac-Van does. If Pac-Van is unable to compete successfully, it could lose customers and our future revenues could decline. Although Pac-Van’s competition varies significantly by market, the modular buildings markets in which Pac-Van competes are dominated by two large participants and are highly competitive. In addition, Pac-Van competes with a number of large to mid-sized regional competitors, as well as many smaller, full and part-time operators in many local regions. The modular building industry is highly competitive, subject to stiff pricing competition and almost all of the competitors have portable storage product offerings. The primary modular national competitors with portable storage product offerings are less leveraged than Pac-Van, and have greater financial resources and pricing flexibility than Pac-Van does. If they focus on portable storage, Pac-Van could lose customers and our future revenues could decline. If Pac-Van is unable to compete successfully, it could lose customers and our future revenues could decline. Because Pac-Van has depended to a large extent on the success of its leasing operations, the failure of Pac-Van to effectively and quickly remarket lease units that are returned could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The current economic recession in the U.S. has reduced utilization rates at Pac-Van to levels at approximately 70%, but historically Pac-Van’s average monthly lease fleet utilization has averaged between 70% and 85%; with the typical lease term being for an average period of over twelve months. The high utilization rate and the length of the average lease have provided Pac-Van with a predictable revenue stream. However, if utilization rates continue to decline or should a significant number of Pac-Van’s lease units be returned during any short period of time, Pac-Van would have to re-lease a large supply of units at similar rates to maintain historic revenues from these operations. Pac-Van’s failure to effectively maintain historical utilization rates or remarket a large influx of units returning from leases could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Sales of modular buildings, mobile offices and storage units constitute a significant portion of Pac-Van’s revenues and the failure to continue to sell units at historic rates could adversely affect our ability to grow Pac-Van’s lease fleet. Sales of modular buildings, mobile offices and storage units constituted approximately 36% of Pac-Van’s total revenues for the year ended June 30, 2009. Revenues from sales of modular buildings, mobile offices and storage units have been used to fund increases in the size of our lease fleet. As a result, the failure to continue to sell a significant number of units may adversely affect our ability to increase the size of Pac-Van’s lease fleet or to otherwise take advantage of business and growth opportunities available to it. Governmental regulations could impose substantial costs and restrictions on Pac-Van’s operations that could harm our future results of operations. Pac-Van is subject to various federal, state and local environmental, transportation, health and safety laws and regulations in connection with its operations. Any failure to comply with these laws or regulations could result in capital or operating expenditures or the imposition of severe penalties or restrictions on its operations. In addition, these laws and regulations could change in a manner that materially and adversely affects Pac-Van’s ability to conduct its business. More burdensome regulatory requirements in these or other areas may increase our general and administrative costs. If Pac-Van is unable to pass these increased costs on to its customers, our future operating results could be negatively impacted. 28 Table of Contents Significant increases in raw material costs could increase our operating costs significantly and harm our future results of operations. Pac-Van purchases raw materials, including metals, lumber, siding and roofing and other products, to construct and modify modular buildings and to modify containers to its customers’ requirements. Pac-Van also maintains a truck fleet to deliver units to and return units from customers. During periods of rising prices for raw materials, especially oil and fuel for delivery vehicles, and in particular when the prices increase rapidly or to levels significantly higher than normal, Pac-Van may incur significant increases in operating costs and may not be able to pass price increases through to customers in a timely manner, which could harm our future results of operations. Failure to retain key personnel could adversely affect Pac-Van’s operations and could impede our ability to execute our business plan and growth strategy. Pac-Van is managed largely by its seven existing officers, including its President, Theodore M. Mourouzis. The continued success of Pac-Van will depend largely on the efforts and abilities of Mr. Mourouzis and these senior managers. These officers and employees have an understanding of Pac-Van and its industry that cannot be readily duplicated. Mr. Mourouzis has an employment agreement which is terminable under certain circumstances upon notice to or by him. The loss of any member of Pac-Van’s senior management team could impair our ability to execute our business plan and growth strategy, cause a loss of customers, reduce revenues and adversely affect employee morale. Any failure of Pac-Van’s management information systems could disrupt our business and result in decreased rental or sale revenues and increased overhead costs, which could negatively impact our results of operations. Pac-Van depends on its management information systems to actively manage its lease fleet, control new unit capital spending and provide fleet information, including leasing history, condition and availability of our units. These functions enhance Pac-Van’s ability to optimize fleet utilization, rentability and redeployment. The failure of Pac-Van’s management information systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt its business and could result in, among other things, decreased leases or sales and increased overhead costs, which could negatively impact our results of operations. Failure by Pac-Van’s manufacturers to sell and deliver products to Pac-Van in timely fashion may harm Pac-Van’s reputation and our financial condition. Pac-Van currently purchases new modular buildings and components, mobile offices and storage container products directly from manufacturers. Although Pac-Van is not dependent on any one manufacturer and is able to purchase products from a variety of suppliers, the failure of one or more of its suppliers to timely manufacture and deliver storage containers to Pac-Van could adversely affect its operations. Pac-Van purchases new modular buildings and components, mobile offices and storage containers under purchase orders issued to various manufacturers, which the manufacturers may or may not accept or be able to fill. Pac-Van has no contracts with any supplier. If these suppliers do not timely fill Pac-Van’s purchase orders, or do not properly manufacture the ordered products, our reputation and financial condition also could be harmed. Unionization by some or all of Pac-Van’s employees could cause increases in operating costs. Pac-Van’s employees are not presently covered by collective bargaining agreements. Unions may attempt to organize Pac-Van’s employees in the future. We are unable to predict the outcome of any continuing or future efforts to organize Pac-Van’s employees, the terms of any future labor agreements, or the effect, if any, those agreements might have on our operations or financial performance. Some zoning laws restrict the use of Pac-Van’s storage units and therefore limit its ability to offer its products in all markets. Many of Pac-Van’s customers use Pac-Van’s storage units to store goods on their own properties. Local zoning laws in some of Pac-Van’s geographic markets prohibit customers from maintaining mobile offices or storage containers on their properties or require that mobile offices or storage containers be located out of sight from the street. If local zoning laws in one or more of Pac-Van’s geographic markets were to ban or restrict mobile offices or storage containers stored on customers’ sites, Pac-Van’s business in that market could suffer. 29 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 