ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are risks that we believe are material to investors who purchase or own our securities. You should consider carefully the following risks, together with the other information contained in and incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and the descriptions included in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Risks Related to Our Business The recent crisis in the financial markets and contraction of the economy have weakened, and could further weaken, demand for travel, hotels, dining and entertainment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. U.S. and global financial markets have experienced extreme disruptions in 2008 and 2009, including, among other things, extreme volatility in securities prices, as well as severely diminished liquidity and credit availability. U.S. and global economies also contracted significantly in 2009, reducing the amounts people spend on travel, hotels, dining and entertainment. Lodging demand weakened significantly during the last quarter of 2008 and throughout 2009, and we believe it will remain weak in 2010 until current economic trends reverse course. If current economic conditions continue or worsen, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We have substantial debt, and we may incur additional indebtedness, which may negatively affect our business and financial results. As of December 31, 2009, we had $739.0 million of outstanding consolidated indebtedness, including capital lease obligations. Our share of indebtedness held by our joint venture entities, which is generally non-recourse to us, with the exception of certain standard carve-out guarantees, was approximately $342.2 million as of December 31, 2009. Our substantial debt may negatively affect our business and operations in several ways, including: • requiring us to use a substantial portion of our funds from operations to make required payments on principal and interest, which will reduce funds available for operations and capital expenditures, future business opportunities and other purposes; • making us more vulnerable to economic and industry downturns, such as the one we are currently experiencing, and reducing our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions; • limiting our ability to borrow more money for operations, capital or to finance development projects or acquisitions in the future; and • requiring us to dispose of properties in order to make required payments of interest and principal. We also will likely incur additional debt in connection with any future acquisitions. However, the tightening of the credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional financing. We may, therefore, in some instances, borrow under our Amended Revolving Credit Facility or borrow other funds to acquire properties. In addition, we may incur further mortgage debt by obtaining loans secured by the properties we acquire or our existing portfolio. Our working capital and liquidity reserves may not be adequate to cover all of our cash needs and we may have to obtain additional debt financing. Sufficient financing may not be available or, if available, may not be available on terms acceptable to us. Additional borrowings for working capital purposes will increase our interest expense, and therefore may harm our business and operations. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of indebtedness that we may incur. If we increase our leverage, the resulting increase in debt service could adversely affect our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and harm our business and operations. 18 Table of Contents We anticipate that we will need to refinance our indebtedness from time to time to repay our debt, and our inability to refinance on favorable terms, or at all, could harm our business and operations. We have $374.5 million of mortgages and mezzanine debt, excluding $40.0 million on a hotel held for non-sale disposition, on several of our hotel properties to secure our indebtedness, including, as of December 31, 2009, $364.0 million on Hudson and Mondrian Los Angeles which matures on July 12, 2010. Properties held by our joint venture entities are also subject to mortgages and mezzanine debt, including, as of December 31, 2009, £100.4 million, or approximately $159.6 million, on Sanderson and St Martins Lane, which matures on November 24, 2010. Since we anticipate that our internally generated cash will be inadequate to repay our indebtedness prior to maturity, we expect that we will be required to repay debt from time to time through refinancings of our indebtedness and/or offerings of equity or debt. The amount of our existing indebtedness and the continued tightness in the credit markets may harm our ability to repay our debt through refinancings. In addition, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of any refinancing result in higher interest rates on any refinancing, our interest expense would increase, which could harm our business and operations. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on acceptable terms, or at all, we might be forced to sell one or more of our properties on disadvantageous terms, which might result in losses to us. We did not repay the mortgage and mezzanine financing on one of our properties upon maturity, and in the future we may elect to cease making payments on additional mortgages or sell a property at a loss if it fails to generate cash flow to cover its debt service or we are unable to refinance the mortgage at maturity, which could result in foreclosure proceedings, negative publicity and reduce the number of properties we own, as well as our revenues, and could negatively affect our ability to obtain loans or raise equity or debt financing in the future. We did not repay the $40.0 million non-recourse mortgage and mezzanine financing on Mondrian Scottsdale when it matured on June 1, 2009, and the lender has begun foreclosure proceedings on the property and terminated the management agreement effective March 16, 2010. In the future, we or our joint venture entities may cease making payments on the mortgages on one or more of our properties if the property fails to generate cash flow to cover its debt service or if we or the joint venture entity are unable to refinance the mortgage at maturity. To the extent we or our joint venture entity does not meet debt service obligations and we or the joint venture entity defaults on a mortgage or other loan, the lender may have the right to exercise various remedies under the loan documents, including foreclosing on the applicable property. Foreclosure on a mortgage loan can be an expensive and lengthy process, which could have a substantial negative effect on our operating results. Lenders may assert numerous claims and take various actions against us, including, without limitation, seeking a deficiency judgment. Foreclosures may also create a negative public perception of us, resulting in a diminution of our brand value, and may negatively impact our ability to obtain loans or raise equity or debt financing in the future. Foreclosure actions may also require a substantial amount of resources and negotiations, which may divert the attention of our executive officers from other activities, adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. A foreclosure may also result in increased tax costs to us if we recognize income upon foreclosure. For tax purposes, a foreclosure on any of our properties would be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure but would not receive any cash proceeds. In addition, certain mortgage or other loan defaults could result in a default under our corporate debt, including our Amended Revolving Credit Facility, or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. For additional information on Clift, see the risk factor beginning “Because land underlying Sanderson is subject to a 150-year ground lease” below. 19 Table of Contents Our Amended Revolving Credit Facility and other debt instruments contain financial and other covenants that may limit our ability to borrow and restrict our operations, and if we fail to comply with such covenants, such failure could result in a default under one or more of our debt instruments. Our Amended Revolving Credit Facility requires the maintenance of a fixed charge coverage ratio. Our ability to borrow under our Amended Revolving Credit Facility is subject to compliance with this financial and other covenants, and our ability to comply with the covenants may be impacted by any deterioration in our operations brought on by the current economic downturn, potential further declines in our property values, and additional borrowings to maintain our liquidity and fund our capital and financing obligations. As of December 31, 2009, we are in compliance with the financial covenants set forth in our Amended Revolving Credit Facility and other agreements. However, if our business deteriorates, we may breach one or more of our financial covenants in the future. In the event we breach our financial covenants, we would be in default under the Amended Revolving Credit Facility and/or certain other agreements, which could allow lenders to declare all amounts outstanding under the applicable agreements to become due and payable. Additionally, an acceleration event under one debt instrument could allow for acceleration under other debt instruments with cross-acceleration provisions. If this happens, there would be a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. The amount available for borrowings under the Amended Revolving Credit Facility is contingent upon the borrowing base, which is calculated by reference to the appraised value and implied debt service coverage value of certain collateral properties securing the Amended Revolving Credit Facility. As of December 31, 2009, the available borrowing base, before $1.8 million of outstanding letters of credit posted against the Amended Revolving Credit Facility, was approximately $123.2 million. Our ability to borrow under the Amended Revolving Credit Facility and the amount of cash that may need to be retained from such borrowings also depends on our ability to maintain the Amended Revolving Credit Facility’s financial covenant. If current economic conditions continue, however, this borrowing base may be significantly reduced in the future. As a result, we cannot assure you of the future amount, if any, that will be available under our Amended Revolving Credit Facility. In addition, the Amended Revolving Credit Facility, trust preferred securities, and Convertible Notes (as defined below) include limitations on our ability to sell all or substantially all of our assets and engage in mergers, consolidations and certain acquisitions. These covenants may restrict our ability to engage in transactions that we believe would otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. Some of our other existing indebtedness contain limitations on our ability to incur additional debt on specific properties, as well as financial covenants relating to the performance of those properties. If these covenants restrict us from engaging in activities that we believe would benefit those properties, our growth may be limited. If we fail to comply with these covenants, we will need to obtain consents or waivers from compliance with these covenants, which may take time, cause us to incur additional expenses, or may require us to prepay the debt containing the restrictive covenants. We have incurred substantial losses and have a significant net deficit, and due to the current negative economic environment, may continue to incur losses in the future. We reported pre-tax net losses of $127.8 million, $87.9 million, and $21.2 million, for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our net losses primarily reflect losses in equity of unconsolidated joint ventures, impairment charges, which we do not expect to be recurring, and interest expense and depreciation and amortization charges, which we expect will continue to be significant. Further, stock compensation, a non-cash expense, contributed to the net losses recorded during 2009, 2008, and 2007. There can be no assurance that we will attain profitability and generate net income for our stockholders in the near term or at all. Boutique hotels such as ours may be more susceptible to an economic downturn than other segments of the hospitality industry, which could result in declines in our average daily room rates or occupancy, or both. The performance of the hospitality industry, and the boutique hotel segment in particular, has traditionally been closely linked with the general economy. In the current economic downturn, boutique hotels such as ours may be more susceptible to a decrease in revenues, as compared to hotels in other segments that have lower room rates, because our hotels generally target business and high-end leisure travelers. In this period of economic difficulties, business and high-end leisure travelers may seek to reduce travel costs by limiting travel, choosing lower cost hotels or otherwise reducing the costs of their trips. These changes could result in further declines in average daily room rates or occupancy, or both. Profitability also may be negatively affected by the relatively high fixed costs of operating hotels such as ours, when compared to other segments of the hospitality industry. 20 Table of Contents Disruptions in the financial markets could affect our ability to obtain financing for development of our properties and other purposes on reasonable terms. U.S. and global stock and credit markets are experiencing significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions, which have caused market prices of many stocks to fluctuate substantially and the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the financial markets, making terms for certain financings less attractive, and in some cases have resulted in the unavailability of financing. Continued uncertainty in the stock and credit markets may prevent or negatively impact our ability to access additional financing or refinancing for development of our properties and other purposes at reasonable terms, which may cause us to suspend, abandon or delay development and other activities and otherwise negatively affect our business or our ability to refinance debt as it comes due. For example, in 2009, our Echelon Las Vegas project was canceled after the applicable joint venture was unable to obtain necessary financing. We have other potential development opportunities, which have not yet been financed, including Mondrian Palm Springs. The downturn in the financial markets may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing, and may require us to adjust our business plan accordingly. These events also may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital through the issuance of our common stock or preferred stock. Boutique hotels are a highly competitive segment of the hospitality industry. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business and operations will be adversely affected by declines in our average daily room rates or occupancy, or both. We generally compete in the boutique hotel segment of the hospitality industry. We believe that this segment is highly competitive. Competition within the boutique hotel segment is also likely to increase in the future. Competitive factors in the hospitality industry include name recognition, quality of service, convenience of location, quality of the property, pricing and range and quality of food services and amenities offered. Market perception that we no longer provide innovative property concepts and designs would adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. If we are unable to compete effectively, we would lose market share, which could adversely affect our business and operations. All of our properties are located in areas with numerous competitors, many of whom have substantially greater resources than us. In addition, new hotels may be constructed in the areas in which our properties are located, possibly without corresponding increases in demand for hotel rooms. New or existing competitors could offer significantly lower rates or more convenient locations, services or amenities or significantly expand, improve or introduce new service offerings in markets in which our hotels compete, thereby posing a greater competitive threat than at present. The resulting decrease in our revenues could adversely affect our business and operations. Our success depends on the value of our name, image and brands, and if the demand for our hotels and their features decreases or the value of our name, image or brands diminishes, our business and operations would be adversely affected. Our success depends, to a large extent, on our ability to shape and stimulate consumer tastes and demands by producing and maintaining innovative, attractive, and exciting properties and services, as well as our ability to remain competitive in the areas of design and quality. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in this regard or that we will be able to anticipate and react to changing consumer tastes and demands in a timely manner. Furthermore, a high media profile is an integral part of our ability to shape and stimulate demand for our hotels with our target customers. A key aspect of our marketing strategy is to focus on attracting media coverage. If we fail to attract that media coverage, we may need to substantially increase our advertising and marketing costs, which would adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, other types of marketing tools, such as traditional advertising and marketing, may not be successful in attracting our target customers. Our business would be adversely affected if our public image, reputation or brand were to be diminished, including as a result of any failure to remain competitive in the areas of design, quality and service. If we do not maintain our hotel properties at a high level, which necessitates, from time to time, capital expenditures and the replacement of furniture, fixtures and equipment, or the owners of the hotels that we manage fail to develop or maintain the properties at standards worthy of the Morgans Hotel Group brand, the value of our name, image or brands would be diminished and our business and operations would be adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents Any failure to protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on the value of our brand names and adversely affect our business. We believe that our trademarks are critical to our success. We rely on trademark laws to protect our proprietary rights. The success of our business depends in part upon our continued ability to use our trademarks to increase brand awareness and further develop our brand in both domestic and international markets. Monitoring the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult. Litigation has been and may continue to be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, may result in counterclaims or other claims against us and could significantly harm our results of operations. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. From time to time, we apply to have certain trademarks registered. There is no guarantee that such trademark registrations will be granted. We cannot assure you that all of the steps we have taken to protect our trademarks in the United States and foreign countries will be adequate to prevent imitation of our trademarks by others. The unauthorized reproduction of our trademarks could diminish the value of our brands and their market acceptance, competitive advantages or goodwill, which could adversely affect our business. We may have disputes with, or be sued by, third parties for infringement or misappropriation of their proprietary rights, which could have a negative impact on our business. Other parties may assert trademark, copyright or other intellectual property rights that have a negative impact on our business. We cannot assure you that others will not seek to block our use of certain marks or seek monetary damages or other remedies for the prior use of our brand names or other intellectual property or the sale of our products or services as a violation of their trademark, copyright or other proprietary rights. Defending any claims, even claims without merit, could divert our management’s attention, be time-consuming, result in costly settlements, litigation or restrictions on our business and damage our reputation. In addition, there may be prior registrations or use of trademarks in the United States or foreign countries for similar or competing marks or other proprietary rights of which we are not aware. In all such countries it may be possible for any third-party owner of a national trademark registration or other proprietary right to enjoin or limit our expansion into those countries or to seek damages for our use of such intellectual property in such countries. In the event a claim against us were successful and we could not obtain a license to the relevant intellectual property or redesign or rename our products or operations to avoid infringement, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. Securing registrations does not fully insulate us against intellectual property claims, as another party may have rights superior to our registration or our registration may be vulnerable to attack on various grounds. Our hotels are geographically concentrated in a limited number of cities and, accordingly, we could be disproportionately harmed by an economic downturn in these cities or a disaster, such as a hurricane or earthquake. The concentration of our hotels in a limited number of cities exposes us to greater risk to local economic, business and other conditions than more geographically diversified hotel companies. Morgans, Royalton and Hudson, located in Manhattan, represented approximately 22.8% of our total guest rooms for all the hotels we manage and approximately $103.2 million, or 47.4%, of our consolidated hotel revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009. Currently, the Manhattan hotel market is experiencing a significant decline related to the global economic downturn. A terrorist attack or similar disaster would also cause a decline in the Manhattan hotel market and adversely affect occupancy rates, the financial performance of our New York hotels and our overall results of operations. In addition, the significant expansion of the Hard Rock Hotel & Casino in Las Vegas and the opening of Mondrian South Beach, our third hotel in Miami, have increased our geographic concentration in Las Vegas and Miami, respectively, making us susceptible to economic slowdowns and other factors in those markets, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents In addition, certain of our hotels are located in markets that are more susceptible to natural disasters than others, which could adversely affect those hotels, the local economies, or both. Specifically, the Miami area, where Delano South Beach, Shore Club and Mondrian South Beach are located, is susceptible to hurricanes and California, where Mondrian Los Angeles and Clift are located, is susceptible to earthquakes. A variety of factors affecting the local markets in which our hotels operate, including such natural disasters, could have a material adverse affect on our business and operations. The Hard Rock Hotel & Casino in Las Vegas is subject to extensive state and local regulation, and licensing and gaming authorities in Nevada have significant control over our gaming operations at the Hard Rock Hotel & Casino in Las Vegas and gaming license considerations could constrain the manner in which we conduct our business. Our ability to operate the casino at the Hard Rock Hotel & Casino in Las Vegas is contingent upon our maintenance of all regulatory licenses, permits, approvals, registrations, findings of suitability, orders and authorizations. The laws, regulations and ordinances requiring these licenses, permits and other approvals generally relate to the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations, as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. The scope of the approvals required to open and operate a facility is extensive. Failure to obtain or maintain any of the required gaming approvals and licenses could impair our future financial position and results of operations. The Nevada Gaming Commission may, in its discretion, require the holder of any securities we issue to file applications, be investigated and be found suitable to own our securities if it has reason to believe that such ownership would be inconsistent with the declared policies of the State of Nevada. Nevada regulatory authorities have broad powers to request detailed financial and other information, to limit, condition, suspend or revoke a registration, gaming license or related approval and to approve changes in our operations. Such authorities may levy substantial fines or forfeiture of assets for violations of gaming laws or regulations. The suspension or revocation of any license that may be granted to us or the levy of substantial fines or forfeiture of assets could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, compliance costs associated with gaming laws, regulations and licenses are significant. Any change in the laws, regulations or licenses applicable to our business or a violation of any current or future laws or regulations applicable to our business or gaming license could require us to make substantial expenditures or could otherwise negatively affect our gaming operations. The threat of terrorism has adversely affected the hospitality industry generally and these adverse effects may continue or worsen. The threat of terrorism has caused, and may in the future cause, a significant decrease in hotel occupancy and average daily rate, or ADR, due to disruptions in business and leisure travel patterns and concerns about travel safety. Hotels in major metropolitan areas, such as New York and London that represented approximately 30.1% of our total guest rooms for all the hotels we manage at December 31, 2009, may be adversely affected due to concerns about travel safety and a significant overall decrease in the amount of air travel, particularly transient business travel, which includes the corporate and premium business segments that generally pay the highest average room rates. The possibility of future attacks may hamper business and leisure travel patterns and, accordingly, the performance of our business and our operations. 23 Table of Contents We are exposed to the risks of a global market, which could hinder our ability to maintain and expand our international operations. We have properties in the United States, the United Kingdom and Mexico and may expand to other international markets. The success and profitability of any future international operations are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control, such as: • global economic conditions, such as the current economic downturn; • political or economic instability; • changes in governmental regulation; • trade restrictions; • foreign currency controls; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing operations in certain foreign countries; • work stoppages or other changes in labor conditions; • taxes; • payments terms; and • seasonal reductions in business activity in some parts of the world. Furthermore, changes in policies and/or laws of the United States or foreign governments resulting in, among other things, higher taxation, currency conversion limitations or the expropriation of private enterprises could reduce the anticipated benefits of our international operations. Any actions by countries in which we conduct business to reverse policies that encourage foreign trade could adversely affect our business relationships and gross profit. In addition, we may be restricted in moving or repatriating funds attributable to our international properties without the approval of foreign governmental authorities or courts. For example, because of our historical net losses in our United Kingdom operations, funds repatriated from the United Kingdom may be considered a return of capital and may require court approval. These limitations could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Establishing operations in any foreign country or region presents risks such as those described above, as well as risks specific to the particular country or region. We may not be able to maintain and expand our international operations successfully, and as a result, our business operations could be adversely affected. The hotel business is capital intensive and requires capital improvements to remain competitive; the failure to timely fund such capital improvements, the rising cost of such improvements and increasing operating expenses could negatively impact our ability to compete, reduce our cash flow and adversely affect our financial performance. Our hotel properties have an ongoing need for renovations and other capital improvements to remain competitive, including replacement, from time to time, of furniture, fixtures and equipment. To compete effectively, we will need to make capital expenditures to maintain our innovative property concepts and designs. In addition, we will need to make capital expenditures to comply with applicable laws and regulations. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we spent approximately $13.0 million for capital improvements and renovations to our hotels. If we are not able to fund capital improvements solely from cash provided from our operating activities, we will need to access debt or equity capital, which may not be available, particularly in the current financial markets. If we cannot access debt or equity capital, we may need to postpone or cancel such capital improvements, which could harm our ability to remain competitive. In addition, renovations and other capital improvements to our hotels may be expensive and may require us to close all or a portion of the hotels to customers during such renovations, affecting occupancy and average daily rate. These capital improvements may give rise to the following additional risks, among others: • construction cost overruns and delays; • exposure under completion and related guarantees; • uncertainties as to market demand or a loss of market demand after capital improvements have begun; • disruption in service and room availability causing reduced demand, occupancy and rates; and • possible environmental problems. 24 Table of Contents As a result, capital improvement projects may increase our expenses and reduce our cash flows and our revenues. If capital expenditures exceed our expectations, this excess would have an adverse effect on our available cash. In addition, our Amended Revolving Credit Facility prohibits capital expenditures with respect to any hotels owned by us or our subsidiaries, other than maintenance capital expenditures for any hotel not exceeding 4% of the annual gross revenues of such hotel and certain other exceptions. If we are unable to make the capital improvements necessary to attract customers and grow our business within the limits imposed by the Amended Revolving Credit Facility, our properties may not remain competitive. We have high fixed costs, including property taxes and insurance costs, which we may be unable to adjust in a timely manner in response to a reduction in revenues. In addition, our property taxes have increased in recent years and we expect those increases to continue. The costs associated with owning and operating hotels are significant, some of which may not be altered in a timely manner in response to changes in demand for services; failure to adjust our expenses may adversely affect our business and operations. For example, pursuant to the terms of our agreements with the labor unions for our New York City and San Francisco hotels, we may not unilaterally reduce the wages of the employees subject to these agreements, and are restricted in the manner in which we may layoff and/or alter the schedule of employees. Property taxes and insurance costs are a significant part of our operating expenses. In recent years, our real property taxes have increased and we expect those increases to continue. Our real property taxes may increase as property tax rates change and as the values of properties are assessed and reassessed by taxing authorities. In addition, our real property tax rates will increase as property tax abatements expire. For example, the property tax abatement applicable to Hudson began phasing out over a five-year period beginning in 2008. Our real estate taxes do not depend on our revenues, and generally we could not reduce them other than by disposing of our real estate assets. Insurance premiums for the hospitality industry have increased significantly in recent years, and continued escalation may result in our inability to obtain adequate insurance at acceptable premium rates. A continuation of this trend would appreciably increase the operating expenses of our hotels. If we do not obtain adequate insurance, to the extent that any of the events not covered by an insurance policy materialize, our financial condition may be materially adversely affected. In the future, our properties may be subject to increases in real estate and other tax rates, utility costs, operating expenses, insurance costs, repairs and maintenance and administrative expenses, as well as reductions in our revenues due to the current global economic downturn, which could reduce our cash flow and adversely affect our financial performance. Although we have instituted measures to actively manage costs by implementing certain cost-cutting contingency plans at each of our properties and cost reduction plans at our corporate office, we may not be successful in managing such cost reductions effectively to mitigate reductions in revenues without significantly impacting the customer experience. If our revenue continues to decline, as it did in 2009, and we are unable to reduce our expenses in a timely manner, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our strategy to acquire and develop or redevelop hotels creates timing, financing, operational and other risks that may adversely affect our business and operations. We intend to acquire and develop, or redevelop through expansion, hotel properties as suitable opportunities arise. Acquisitions, development or redevelopment projects of hotel properties require significant capital expenditures, especially since these properties usually generate little or no cash flow until the project’s completion. We generally are not able to fund acquisitions and development or redevelopment projects solely from cash provided from our operating activities. Consequently, we rely upon the availability of debt or equity capital to fund hotel acquisitions and development or redevelopment. For example, we are currently developing a property in New York — Mondrian SoHo. Additionally, we have other potential development opportunities, which have not yet been financed, including Mondrian Palm Springs. Given the current state of the credit markets, however, we or the joint ventures may not be able to obtain adequate project financing in a timely manner or at all. If adequate project financing is not obtained, we or the joint ventures may seek additional investors to raise capital, limit the scope of the project, defer the project or cancel the project altogether. Our inability to complete a project or complete a project on time or within budget may adversely affect our operating results and financial performance. 25 Table of Contents Neither our charter nor our bylaws limits the amount of debt that we can incur. However, given the current economic environment, no assurances can be made that we will be able to obtain additional equity or debt financing or that we will be able to obtain such financing on favorable terms. We may not be able to successfully compete for desirable hotel management, development, acquisition or investment opportunities. We may not be successful in identifying or completing hotel projects that are consistent with our strategy. We compete with hotel operating companies, institutional pension funds, private equity investors, real estate investment trusts, owner-operators of hotels and others who are engaged in hotel operating or real estate investment activities for the operation, development, and acquisition of hotels. In addition, competition for suitable hotel management, development, investment and acquisition opportunities is intense and may increase in the future. Some competitors may have substantially greater financial resources than we do, and as such, will be able to accept more risk than we can prudently manage. These competitors may limit the number of suitable hotel management, development, investment and acquisition opportunities for us by driving up the price we must pay for such opportunities. In addition, our potential hotel management or development projects or acquisition targets may find our competitors to be more attractive suitors because they may have greater resources, be willing to pay more, have a more compatible operating philosophy, or better relationships with hotel franchisors, sellers or lenders. Furthermore, the terms of our management agreements are influenced by contract terms offered by our competitors, among other things. We cannot assure you that any of our current arrangements will continue or that we will be able to enter into future collaborations, renew agreements, or enter into new agreements in the future on terms that are as favorable to us as those that exist today. Even if we are able to successfully identify and acquire other hotel management or development projects, acquisitions or investments, they may not yield the returns we expect and, if financed using our equity capital, may be dilutive. We also may incur significant costs and divert management attention in connection with evaluating and negotiating potential hotel management or development projects or acquisitions, including ones that we or others are subsequently unable to complete. For example, although we entered into an agreement to manage a hotel to be developed in Dubai, the owner has not yet begun development and may never be able to do so. We may underestimate the costs necessary to bring a hotel management agreement or development project or acquired property up to the standards established for its intended market position or to re-develop it as a Morgans Hotel Group brand hotel or the costs to integrate it with our existing operations. Although we anticipate that the owners of the hotels that we manage in San Juan, Puerto Rico and Playa del Carmen, Mexico will re-develop the hotels into Morgans Hotel Group branded properties in the future, we can provide no assurances that such re-branding will be completed, successful or timely. Significant costs of hotel development projects or acquisitions could materially impact our operating results, including costs of uncompleted hotel development projects or acquisitions as they would generally be expensed in the time period during which they are incurred. Integration of new hotels may be difficult and may adversely affect our business and operations. The success of any hotel management or development project or acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from integrating new hotels with our existing operations. For instance, we may manage, develop or acquire new hotels in geographic areas in which our management may have little or no operating experience and in which potential customers may not be familiar with our existing hotels, name, image or brands. These hotels may attract fewer customers than our existing hotels, while at the same time, we may incur substantial additional costs with these new hotel properties. As a result, the results of operations at new hotel properties may be inferior to those of our existing hotels. Until recently, none of our individual hotel brands were used for more than one hotel. Extension of our brands may jeopardize what we believe are the distinct reputations of our existing properties. Unanticipated expenses and insufficient demand at a new hotel property, therefore, could adversely affect our business. Our success in realizing anticipated benefits and the timing of this realization depend upon the successful integration of the operations of the new hotel. This integration is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. The difficulties of combining new hotel properties with our existing operations include, among others: • coordinating sales, distribution and marketing functions; • integrating information systems; 26 Table of Contents • preserving the important licensing, distribution, marketing, customer, labor, and other relationships of a new hotel; • costs relating to the opening, operation and promotion of new hotel properties that are substantially greater than those incurred in other geographic areas; and • converting hotels to our brand. We may not accomplish the integration of new hotels smoothly or successfully. The diversion of the attention of our management from our existing operations to integration efforts and any difficulties encountered in combining operations could prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits from the addition of the new hotel and could adversely affect our business and operations. The use of joint ventures or other entities, over which we may not have full control, for hotel development projects or acquisitions could prevent us from achieving our objectives. We have in the past and may in the future acquire, develop or redevelop hotel properties through joint ventures with third parties, acquiring non-controlling interests in or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of a property, joint venture or other entity. For example, we currently are party to a joint venture to develop a Mondrian hotel in New York’s SoHo neighborhood. As of December 31, 2009, we also owned our St Martins Lane and Sanderson hotels in London and our Mondrian hotel in Miami through 50/50 joint ventures, our Ames hotel in Boston through a joint venture in which our interest was approximately 35%, and the Hard Rock through a joint venture of which our interest was 12.8%. Our interest in the Hard Rock joint venture is based on cash contributions, as of December 31, 2009, after applying a weighting of 1.75x to the DLJMB Parties’ contributions in excess of $250.0 million, which was the last agreed weighting for capital contributions beyond the amount initially committed by our joint venture partner. Some of these additional contributions made by the DLJMB Parties may ultimately receive a greater weighting based on an appraisal process included in the joint venture agreement or as otherwise agreed by the parties, which would further dilute our ownership interest. To the extent we own properties through joint ventures or other entities, we may not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the property, joint venture or other entity. Investments in joint ventures or other entities may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that partners might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. Likewise, partners may have economic or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. Such investments may also have the potential risk of creating impasses on decisions if neither we nor our partner have full control over the joint venture or other entity. Disputes between us and our partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent management from focusing their time and effort on our business. Consequently, actions by, or disputes with, our partners might result in subjecting properties owned by the joint venture to additional risk. In addition, we may, certain circumstances, be liable for the actions of our partners. We have recently invested, and may continue to invest in the future, in select properties which have residential components, and this strategy may not yield the returns we expect and, may result in disruptions to our business or strain management resources. As part of our growth strategy, we may seek to leverage awareness of our hotel brands by acquiring, developing and/or managing non-hotel properties, such as condominium developments and other residential projects, including condominiums or apartments. We may invest in these opportunities solely or with joint venture partners. For example, in August 2006, together with a 50/50 joint venture partner, we acquired an apartment building in the South Beach area of Miami, Florida, which we renovated and converted into a hotel and condominium project and re-branded as Mondrian South Beach. This strategy, however, may expose us to additional risks, including the following: • we may be unable to obtain, or face delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy, and other required governmental permits and authorizations, which could result in increased development or re-development costs and/or lower than expected sales; 27 Table of Contents • the downturn in market conditions for residences, which has partially been the result of the reduction in credit availability and the worsening of pricing terms, has affected and may continue to affect our ability to sell residential units at a profit or at the price levels originally anticipated; • local residential real estate market conditions, such as the current oversupply and reduction in demand, may result in reduced or fluctuating sales; • cost overruns, including development or re-development costs that exceed our original estimates, could make completion of the project uneconomical; • land, insurance and development or re-development costs continue to increase and may continue to increase in the future and we may be unable to attract rents, or sales prices that compensate for these increases in costs; • development or re-development of condominium properties usually generate little or no cash flow until the project’s completion and the sale of a significant number of condominium units and may experience operating deficits after the date of completion and until such condominium units are sold; • failure to achieve expected occupancy and/or rent levels at residential apartment properties within the projected time frame, if at all; and • we may abandon development or re-development opportunities that we have already begun to explore, and we may fail to recover expenses already incurred in connection with exploring any such opportunities. Overall project costs may significantly exceed the costs that were estimated when the project was originally undertaken, which will result in reduced returns, or even losses, from our investment. We may be involved in disputes, from time to time, with the owners of the hotels that we manage. The nature of our responsibilities under our management agreements to manage hotels that are not wholly-owned by us may be subject to interpretation and will from time to time give rise to disagreements. Such disagreements may be more likely as hotel returns are depressed as a result of current economic conditions. To the extent that such conflicts arise, we seek to resolve them by negotiation with the relevant parties. In the event that such resolution cannot be achieved, litigation may result in damages or other remedies against us. Such remedies could include termination of the right to manage the relevant property. We may be terminated pursuant to the terms of certain hotel management agreements if we do not achieve established performance criteria. Certain of our management agreements allow the hotel owner to replace us if certain financial or performance criteria are not met and in certain cases, upon a sale of the property. Our ability to meet these financial and performance criteria is subject to, among other things, the risks described in this section. For instance, beginning 12 months following completion of the expansion of the Hard Rock, our Hard Rock management agreement may be terminated if the Hard Rock fails to achieve an EBITDA hurdle, as defined in the management agreement. There can be no assurances that we will satisfy this or other performance tests in our management agreements, many of which may be beyond our control, or that our management agreements will not be subject to early termination. Several of our hotels are also subject to substantial mortgage and mezzanine debt, and in some instances our management fee is subordinated to the debt and our management agreements may be terminated by the lenders on foreclosure. The lender for the Scottsdale mortgage has terminated the management agreement with respect to that property. In addition, in March 2010, the lender for the Shore Club mortgage initiated foreclosure proceedings against the property. We are continuing to operate the hotel during foreclosure proceedings, but we are uncertain whether we will continue to manage the property once foreclosure proceedings are complete. Our operating results would be adversely affected if we could not maintain existing management agreements or obtain new agreements on as favorable terms as the existing agreements. 28 Table of Contents Our hedging strategies may not be successful in mitigating our risks associated with interest rates. We use various derivative financial instruments to provide a level of protection against interest rate risks, but no hedging strategy can protect us completely. When interest rates change, we may be required to record a gain or loss on those derivatives that we currently hold. Our hedging activities may include entering into interest rate swaps, caps and floors and options to purchase these items. We currently use interest rate caps to manage our interest rate risks related to our variable rate indebtedness; however, our actual hedging decisions will be determined in light of the facts and circumstances existing at the time and may differ from our currently anticipated hedging strategy. There can be no assurance that our hedging strategy and the derivatives that we use will adequately offset the risk of interest rate volatility or that our hedging transactions will not result in losses, and such losses could harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. Our operations are sensitive to currency exchange risks, and we cannot predict the impact of future exchange-rate fluctuations on our business and operating results. Our operations are sensitive to currency exchange risks. Changes in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar may adversely affect our operating results. For example, all else being equal, a weaker U.S. dollar will promote international tourism in our domestic markets. As foreign currencies appreciate against the U.S. dollar, it becomes less expensive, in terms of those appreciating foreign currencies, to pay for our U.S. hotel services. Conversely, all else being equal, an appreciating U.S. dollar could affect demand for our U.S. hotel services. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange-rate fluctuations on our business and operations. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, it may have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. We are subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX, and the applicable SEC rules and regulations that require our management to conduct an annual assessment and to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must issue an attestation report addressing the operating effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. While our internal controls over financial reporting currently meet all of the standards required by SOX, failure to maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and the price of our common stock. We cannot be certain as to our ability to continue to comply with the requirements of SOX. If we are not able to continue to comply with the requirements of SOX in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, including the SEC or Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. In addition, should we identify a material weakness, there can be no assurance that we would be able to remediate such material weakness in a timely manner in future periods. Moreover, if we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in any future period (or if our auditors are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, and incur significant expenses to restructure our internal controls over financial reporting, which may have an a material adverse effect on our business and operations. We depend on our senior management for the future success of our business, and the loss of one or more of our key personnel could have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business and implement our growth strategies, or could be negatively perceived in the capital markets. Our future success and our ability to manage future growth depend, in large part, upon the efforts and continued service of our senior management team which has substantial experience in the hospitality industry and which exercises substantial influence over our operational, financing, acquisition and disposition activity. It could be difficult for us to find replacements for our senior management, as competition for such personnel is intense. The loss of services of one or more members of our senior management team could have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business and implement our growth strategies. Further, such a loss could be negatively perceived in the capital markets, which could reduce the market value of our securities. 29 Table of Contents We depend on Jeffrey Chodorow for the management of many of our restaurants and bars. As of December 31, 2009, the restaurants in Morgans, Delano South Beach, Mondrian Los Angeles, Clift, Mondrian South Beach, Sanderson and St Martins Lane as well as the bars in Delano South Beach, Sanderson and St Martins Lane were owned and managed through several joint venture operations with restaurateur Jeffrey Chodorow pursuant to a master agreement between our subsidiaries and Chodorow Ventures LLC. If any of the risks outlined below materialize, our results of operations may be adversely affected. The joint ventures involve risks not otherwise present in our business, including: • the risk that Mr. Chodorow or Chodorow Ventures LLC has economic or other interests or goals that are inconsistent with our interests and goals and that he may not take, or may veto, actions which may be in our best interests; • the risk that a joint venture entity or Chodorow Ventures LLC may default on its obligations under the agreement or the leases with our hotels, or not renew those leases when they expire, and therefore we may not continue to receive its services; • the risk that disputes between us and partners or co-venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and/or directors from focusing their time and effort on our business; • the risk that we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our third party partners or co-venturers; and • the risk that Chodorow Ventures LLC may become bankrupt and will be unable to continue to provide services to us. Because land underlying Sanderson is subject to a 150-year ground lease, Clift is leased pursuant to a 99-year lease and a portion of Hudson is the lease of a condominium interest, we are subject to the risk that these leases could be terminated and could cause us to lose the ability to operate these hotels. Our rights to use the land underlying Sanderson in London are based upon our interest under a 150-year ground lease. Our rights to operate Clift in San Francisco are based upon our interest under a 99-year lease. In addition, a portion of Hudson in New York is a condominium interest that is leased to us. Pursuant to the terms of the leases for these hotels, we are required to pay all rent due and comply with all other lessee obligations under the leases. Any transfer, including a pledge, of our interest in a lease may require the consent of the applicable lessor and its lenders. As a result, we may not be able to sell, assign, transfer or convey our lessee’s interest in any hotel subject to a lease in the future absent consent of such third parties even if such transactions may be in the best interest of our stockholders. 30 Table of Contents The lessor may require us, at the expiration or termination of the lease to surrender or remove any improvements, alterations or additions to the land or hotel at our own expense. The leases also generally require us to restore the premises following a casualty or taking and to apply in a specified manner any proceeds received in connection therewith. We may have to restore the premises if a material casualty, such as a fire or an act of God, occurs, the cost of which may exceed any available insurance proceeds. The termination of any of these leases could cause us to lose the ability to continue operating these hotels, which would materially affect our business and results of operations. Due to the amount of rent stated in the lease, which will increase periodically, and the economic environment in which the hotel operates, we are not operating Clift at a profit and do not know when we will be able to operate Clift profitably. Morgans Group has funded cash shortfalls sustained at Clift in order to make rent payments from time to time, but, on March 1, 2010, our subsidiary that leases Clift did not make the scheduled monthly rent payment. We are in discussions with the landlord to restructure the lease arrangements, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in restructuring the lease or in continuing to operate Clift. The lease provides that the landlord may terminate the lease upon a default in the payment of rent and may assert a claim for damages or a substantial termination fee upon termination. However, under the lease, the landlord’s recourse is limited to the lessee, which has no substantial assets other than its leasehold interest in Clift. We are party to numerous contracts and operating agreements, certain of which limit our activities through restrictive covenants or consent rights. Violation of those covenants or failure to receive consents could lead to termination of those contracts or operating agreements. We are party to numerous contracts and operating agreements, many of which are integral to our business operations. Certain of those contracts and operating agreements, including our joint venture agreements, generally require that we obtain the consent of the other party or parties before taking certain actions and/or contain restrictive covenants that could affect the manner in which we conduct our business. Our failure to comply with restrictive covenants or failure to obtain consents could provide the beneficiaries of those covenants or consents with the right to terminate the relevant contract or operating agreement or seek damages against us. If those claims relate to agreements that are integral to our operations, any termination could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 31 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Hospitality Industry A number of factors, many of which are common to the lodging industry and beyond our control, could affect our business, including those described elsewhere in this section as well as the following: • increased competition from new supply or existing hotel properties in our markets, which would likely adversely affect occupancy and revenues at our hotels; • dependence on business, commercial and leisure travelers and tourism; • dependence on group and meeting/conference business; • increases in energy costs, airline strikes or other factors that may affect travel patterns and reduce the number of business and commercial travelers and tourists; • changes in laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances; and • risks generally associated with the ownership of hotel properties and real estate. These factors could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Seasonal variations in revenue at our hotels can be expected to cause quarterly fluctuations in our revenues. The hospitality industry is seasonal in nature. This seasonality can be expected to cause quarterly fluctuations in our revenues. Our revenue is generally highest in the second and fourth quarters. Our quarterly earnings may also be adversely affected by factors outside our control, including weather conditions and poor economic conditions, such as the current economic downturn. As a result, we may have to enter into short-term borrowings in certain quarters in order to offset these fluctuations in revenues. The industries in which we operate are heavily regulated and a failure to comply with regulatory requirements may result in an adverse effect on our business. Any failure to comply with regulatory requirements may result in an adverse effect on our business. Our various properties are subject to numerous laws, including those relating to the preparation and sale of food and beverages, including alcohol. We are also subject to laws governing our relationship with our employees in such areas as minimum wage and maximum working hours, overtime, working conditions, hiring and firing employees and work permits. Also, our ability to remodel, refurbish or add to our existing properties may be dependent upon our obtaining necessary building permits from local authorities. The failure to obtain any of these permits could adversely affect our ability to increase revenues and net income through capital improvements of our properties. In addition, we are subject to the numerous rules and regulations relating to state and federal taxation. Compliance with these rules and regulations requires significant management attention. Any failure to comply with all such rules and regulations could subject us to fines or audits by the applicable taxation authority. In addition, as a result of our acquisition of the Hard Rock Hotel & Casino, the casino operations at that property are subject to gaming industry regulations. The gaming industry is highly regulated, and the casino must maintain its licenses and pay gaming taxes to continue operations. The casino is subject to extensive regulation under the laws, rules and regulations of the jurisdiction in which it operates. These laws, rules and regulations generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners, managers, and persons with financial interests in the gaming operations. Violations of laws could result in, among other things, disciplinary action. The illiquidity of real estate investments and the lack of alternative uses of hotel properties could significantly limit our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties and harm our financial condition. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more of our properties in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions is limited. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. 32 Table of Contents Although we evaluate alternative uses throughout our portfolio, including residential conversion and other opportunities, hotel properties may not readily be converted to alternative uses. The conversion of a hotel to alternative uses would also generally require substantial capital expenditures and may not provide a more profitable return than the use of the hotel property prior to that conversion. We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. We may not have funds available to correct those defects or to make those improvements and as a result our ability to sell the property would be limited. In acquiring a hotel, we may agree to lock-out provisions that materially restrict us from selling that hotel for a period of time or impose other restrictions on us. These factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties could significantly harm our financial condition and results of operations. Uninsured and underinsured losses could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are responsible for insuring our hotel properties as well as obtaining the appropriate insurance coverage to reasonably protect our interests in the ordinary course of business. Additionally, each of our leases and loans typically specifies that comprehensive insurance be maintained on each of our hotel properties, including liability, fire and extended coverage. There are certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes and floods or terrorist acts, which may be uninsurable or not economically insurable, or may be subject to insurance coverage limitations, such as large deductibles or co-payments. We will use our discretion in determining amounts, coverage limits, deductibility provisions of insurance and the appropriateness of self-insuring, with a view to maintaining appropriate insurance coverage on our investments at a reasonable cost and on suitable terms. Uninsured and underinsured losses could harm our financial condition and results of operations. We could incur liabilities resulting from loss or injury to our hotels or to persons at our hotels. Claims, whether or not they have merit, could harm the reputation of a hotel or cause us to incur expenses to the extent of insurance deductibles or losses in excess of policy limitations, which could harm our results of operations. In the event of a catastrophic loss, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover the full current market value or replacement cost of our lost investment. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. In that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. In the event of a significant loss, our deductible may be high and we may be required to pay for all such repairs and, as a consequence, it could materially adversely affect our financial condition. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors might also keep us from using insurance proceeds to replace or renovate a hotel after it has been damaged or destroyed. Under those circumstances, the insurance proceeds we receive might be inadequate to restore our economic position on the damaged or destroyed property. Since September 11, 2001, it has generally become more difficult and expensive to obtain property and casualty insurance, including coverage for terrorism. When our current insurance policies expire, we may encounter difficulty in obtaining or renewing property or casualty insurance on our properties at the same levels of coverage and under similar terms. Such insurance may be more limited and for some catastrophic risks (e.g., earthquake, hurricane, flood and terrorism) may not be generally available at current levels. Even if we are able to renew our policies or to obtain new policies at levels and with limitations consistent with our current policies, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain such insurance at premium rates that are commercially reasonable. If we were unable to obtain adequate insurance on our properties for certain risks, it could cause us to be in default under specific covenants on certain of our indebtedness or other contractual commitments that require us to maintain adequate insurance on our properties to protect against the risk of loss. If this were to occur, or if we were unable to obtain adequate insurance and our properties experienced damage which would otherwise have been covered by insurance, it could materially adversely affect our financial condition and the operations of our properties. In addition, insurance coverage for our hotel properties and for casualty losses does not customarily cover damages that are characterized as punitive or similar damages. As a result, any claims or legal proceedings, or settlement of any such claims or legal proceedings that result in damages that are characterized as punitive or similar damages may not be covered by our insurance. If these types of damages are substantial, our financial resources may be adversely affected. 33 Table of Contents Environmental and other governmental laws and regulations could increase our compliance costs and liabilities and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our hotel properties are subject to various federal, state and local laws relating to the environment, fire and safety and access and use by disabled persons. Under these laws, courts and government agencies have the authority to require us, if we are the owner of a contaminated property, to clean up the property, even if we did not know of or were not responsible for the contamination. These laws also apply to persons who owned a property at the time it became contaminated. In addition to the costs of clean-up, environmental contamination can affect the value of a property and, therefore, an owner’s ability to borrow funds using the property as collateral or to sell the property. Under such environmental laws, courts and government agencies also have the authority to require that a person who sent waste to a waste disposal facility, such as a landfill or an incinerator, to pay for the clean-up of that facility if it becomes contaminated and threatens human health or the environment. Furthermore, various court decisions have established that third parties may recover damages for injury caused by property contamination. For instance, a person exposed to asbestos while staying in or working at a hotel may seek to recover damages for injuries suffered. Additionally, some of these environmental laws restrict the use of a property or place conditions on various activities. For example, some laws require a business using chemicals (such as swimming pool chemicals at a hotel) to manage them carefully and to notify local officials that the chemicals are being used. We could be responsible for the types of costs discussed above. The costs to clean up a contaminated property, to defend against a claim, or to comply with environmental laws could be material and could reduce the funds available for distribution to our stockholders. Future laws or regulations may impose material environmental liabilities on us, or the current environmental condition of our hotel properties may be affected by the condition of the properties in the vicinity of our hotels (such as the presence of leaking underground storage tanks) or by third parties unrelated to us. Our hotel properties are also subject to the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or the ADA. Under the ADA, all public accommodations must meet various Federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Compliance with the ADA’s requirements could require removal of access barriers and non-compliance could result in the United States government imposing fines or in private litigants’ winning damages. If we are required to make substantial modifications to our hotels, whether to comply with the ADA or other changes in governmental rules and regulations, our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In addition, we are required to operate our hotel properties and laundry facilities in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental agencies and become applicable to our properties. Our hotels may be faced with labor disputes or, upon expiration of a collective bargaining agreement, a strike, which would adversely affect the operation of our hotels. We rely heavily on our employees providing high-quality personal service at our hotels and any labor dispute or stoppage caused by poor relations with a labor union or the hotels’ employees could adversely affect our ability to provide those services, which could reduce occupancy and room revenue, tarnish our reputation and hurt our results of operations. Most of our employees who work at Morgans, Royalton, Hudson and Clift are members of local labor unions. Our relationship with our employees or the union could deteriorate due to disputes relating to, among other things, wage or benefit levels or management responses to various economic and industry conditions. The collective bargaining agreement governing the terms of employment for employees working in our New York City hotels will not expire until June 30, 2012. The collective bargaining agreements with the unions representing the Clift employees are either set to expire in 2010 or expired in 2008 or 2009, but are subject to temporary extensions while new labor agreements are negotiated. 34 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Organization and Corporate Structure Morgans Hotel Group Co. is a holding company with no operations. Morgans Hotel Group Co. is a holding company and we conduct all of our operations through our subsidiaries. We do not have, apart from our ownership of Morgans Group and a non-equity voting interest in Hard Rock Hotel Holdings, LLC, any independent operations. As a result and although we have no current plan to do so, we would rely on dividends and other payments or distributions from Morgans Group and our other subsidiaries to pay dividends on our common stock. We also rely on dividends and other payments or distributions from Morgans Group and our other subsidiaries to meet our debt service and other obligations, including our obligations in respect of the trust preferred notes. The ability of Morgans Group and our other subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments or distributions to us will depend on Morgans Group’s operating results. In addition, because Morgans Hotel Group Co. is a holding company, claims of our stockholders will be structurally subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and obligations (whether or not for borrowed money) of our subsidiaries. Therefore, in the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization, our assets and those of our subsidiaries will be able to satisfy the claims of our stockholders only after all of our and our subsidiaries’ liabilities and obligations have been paid in full. Substantially all of our businesses are held through our direct subsidiary, Morgans Group. Other than with respect to 954,065 membership units held by affiliates of NorthStar and LTIP units convertible into membership units issued as part of our employee compensation plans, we own all of the outstanding membership units of Morgans Group. We may, in connection with acquisitions or otherwise, issue additional membership units of Morgans Group in the future. Such issuances would reduce our ownership of Morgans Group. Because our stockholders do not directly own Morgans Group units, they do not have any voting rights with respect to any such issuances or other corporate level activities of Morgans Group. Provisions in our charter documents, Delaware law and our rights plan could discourage potential acquisition proposals, could delay, deter or prevent a change in control and could limit the price certain investors might be willing to pay for our stock. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may inhibit changes in control of our company not approved by our Board of Directors or changes in the composition of our Board of Directors, which could result in the entrenchment of current management. These provisions include: • a prohibition on stockholder action through written consents; • a requirement that special meetings of stockholders be called by the Board of Directors; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations; • limitations on the ability of stockholders to amend, alter or repeal the bylaws; and • the authority of the Board of Directors to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as the Board of Directors may determine and additional _______shares of our common stock. We are also afforded the protections of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prevents us from engaging in a business combination with a person who becomes a 15% or greater stockholder for a period of three years from the date such person acquires such status unless certain Board of Directors or stockholder approvals are obtained. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. In addition, our Board of Directors adopted and recently amended and restated a stockholder rights plan which may deter certain takeover tactics. See “Item 1 — 2009 Transactions and Developments — Stockholder Protection Rights Agreement.” 35 Table of Contents We may experience conflicts of interest with certain of our directors and officers and significant stockholders as a result of their tax positions. Mr. Hamamoto, our Chairman of the Board, and Mr. Marc Gordon, our President and a member of the Board, may suffer adverse tax consequences upon our sale of certain properties and may therefore have different objectives regarding the appropriate pricing and timing of a particular property’s sale. Messrs. Hamamoto and Gordon may therefore influence us to not sell certain properties, even if such sale might be financially advantageous to our stockholders, or to enter into tax deferred exchanges with the proceeds of such sales when such a reinvestment might not otherwise be in our best interest, as they may wish to avoid realization of their share of the built-in gains in those properties. In addition, at the completion of our IPO, an affiliate of NorthStar guaranteed approximately $225.0 million of the indebtedness of subsidiaries of Morgans Group and Messrs. Hamamoto and Gordon agreed to reimburse this guarantor for up to $98.3 million and $7.0 million of its guarantee obligation, respectively. These guarantees and reimbursement undertakings were provided so that Messrs. Hamamoto and Gordon did not realize taxable capital gains in connection with the formation and structuring transactions undertaken in connection with our IPO in the amount that each has agreed to reimburse. If our current debt were to be repaid, restructured or refinanced, Messrs. Hamamoto and Gordon would be adversely affected unless similar reimbursement or guarantees were put in place with respect to the new or existing debt of the Morgans Group subsidiaries. The Investors, who own a substantial number of warrants to purchase our common stock, may have interests that are not aligned with yours and will have substantial influence over the vote on key matters requiring stockholder approval. As of December 31, 2009, the Investors have 12,500,000 warrants to purchase shares of our common stock issued in connection with the Yucaipa investment, which does not include the 5,000,000 contingent warrants that will only become exercisable if we and an affiliate of the Investors are successful in raising a private equity fund pursuant to the terms of a fund formation agreement entered into between an affiliate of the Investors and us. Until October 15, 2010, the Investors have certain rights to purchase their pro rata share of any equity or debt securities offered or sold by us. In addition, the Investors have consent rights over certain transactions for so long as they collectively own or have the right to purchase through exercise of the warrants 6,250,000 shares of our common stock, including (subject to certain exceptions and limitations): • the sale of all or substantially all of our assets to a third party; • the acquisition (including by merger, consolidation or other business combination) by us of a third party where the equity investment by us is $100 million or greater; • our acquisition by a third party; or • any change in the size of our Board of Directors to a number below 7 or above 9. For so long the Investors collectively own or have the right to purchase through exercise of the warrants 875,000 shares of our common stock, we have agreed to use our reasonable best efforts to cause our Board of Directors to nominate and recommend to our stockholders the election of a person nominated by the Investors as a director of the Company and to use our reasonable best efforts to ensure that the Investors’ nominee is elected to our Board of Directors at each such meeting. Accordingly, the Investors have substantial control over our business and can decide the outcome of key corporate decisions. The interests of the Investors may differ from the interests of our other stockholders, and they may cause us to take or not take certain actions with which you may disagree. Third parties may be discouraged from making a tender offer or bid to acquire us because of this concentration of ownership, and we may have more difficulty raising equity or debt financing due to the Investors’ significant ownership and ability to influence certain decisions. 36 Table of Contents Payment of dividends on our Series A Preferred Securities and any redemptions of warrants may negatively impact our cash flow and the value of our common stock. On October 15, 2009 we issued 75,000 shares of Series A Preferred Securities to the Investors. The holders of such Series A Preferred Securities are entitled to cumulative cash dividends, payable in arrears on every three-month anniversary following the original date of issuance if such dividends are declared by the Board of Directors or an authorized committee thereof, at a rate of 8% per year for the first five years, 10% per year for years six and seven, and 20% per year thereafter. In addition, should the Investors’ nominee fail to be elected to our Board of Directors, the dividend rate would increase by 4% during any time that the Investors’ nominee is not a director. We have the option to accrue any and all dividend payments, and as of December 31, 2009, have not declared any dividends. The accrual of these dividends may dampen the value of our common stock. In addition, the Company has the option to redeem any or all of the Series A Preferred Securities at any time. While we do not anticipate redeeming any or all of the Series A Preferred Securities in the near-term, we may want to redeem them in the future prior to the escalation in dividend rate to 20% in 2017. Our working capital and liquidity reserves may not be adequate to cover these redemption payments should we elect to redeem these securities, which would place pressure on us to find outside sources of financing that may or may not be available. In addition, the payment of these dividends, by reducing our ability to use capital for other business and operational needs, may limit our ability to grow and compete. In addition, we may be required to redeem a portion of the warrants issued to the Investors to the extent necessary to facilitate compliance with gaming approval requirements. If we were unable to fund the redemption from available cash resources, we would need to find an alternative source of financing to do so. There can be no assurance that we would be able to raise such funds on favorable terms or at all. Our basis in the hotels contributed to us is generally substantially less than their fair market value which will decrease the amount of our depreciation deductions and increase the amount of recognized gain upon sale. Some of the hotels which were part of our formation and structuring transactions were contributed to us in tax-free transactions. Accordingly, our tax basis in the assets contributed was not adjusted in connection with our IPO and is generally substantially less than the fair market value of the contributed hotels as of the date of our IPO. We also intend to generally use the “traditional” method for making allocations under Section 704(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, as opposed to the “curative” or “remedial” method for making such allocations. Consequently, (i) our depreciation deductions with respect to our hotels will likely be substantially less than the depreciation deductions that would have been available to us had our tax basis been equal to the fair market value of the hotels as of the date of our IPO, (ii) we may recognize gain upon the sale of an asset that is attributable to appreciation in the value of the asset that accrued prior to the date of our IPO, and (iii) we may utilize available net operating losses against the potential gain from the sale of an asset. Non-U.S. holders owning more than 5% of our common stock may be subject to United States federal income tax on gain recognized on the disposition of our common stock. Because of our significant United States real estate holdings, we believe that we are a “United States real property holding corporation” as defined under Section 897 of the Internal Revenue Code. As a result, any “non-U.S. holder” (as defined under “Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations for Non-U.S. Holders”) will be subject to United States federal income tax on gain recognized on a disposition of our common stock if such non-U.S. holder has held, directly or indirectly, 5% of our common stock at any time during the five-year period ending on the date of the disposition and such non-U.S. holder is not eligible for any treaty exemption. Changes in market conditions or sales of our common stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock depends on various financial and market conditions, which may change from time to time and which are outside of our control. Since late 2008, U.S. and global financial markets have been experiencing extreme disruption, including extreme volatility in securities prices, which has adversely affected the price of our common stock. 37 Table of Contents Sales of a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, also could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. In addition to the possibility that we may sell shares of our common stock in a public offering at any time, we also may issue shares of common stock in connection with the warrants we issued to the Investors and the Fund Manager in the Yucaipa investment, our 2.375% Senior Subordinated Convertible Notes (the “Convertible Notes”) due in 2014, grants of restricted stock or long term incentive plan units or upon exercise of stock options that we grant to our directors, officers and employees. All of these shares may be available for sale in the public markets from time to time. As of December 31, 2009, there were: • 12,500,000 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants we issued to the Investors, and up to 5,000,000 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise to the contingent warrants we issued to the Fund Manager in the Yucaipa investment, at exercise prices of $6.00 per share. The stock price at December 31, 2009 was $4.57; • 7,858,755 shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes assuming a conversion rate corresponding to the maximum conversion rate of 45.5580 shares per $1,000 principal amount of the Convertible Notes; • 1,659,279 shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding options, of which options to purchase 1,210,361 shares were exercisable, at a weighted average exercise price of $19.06 per share. As of December 31, 2009, all of these options were underwater; • 139,169 restricted stock units and 1,139,896 LTIP units outstanding exercisable for a total of 1,279,065 shares of our common stock; • 1,126,163 restricted stock units and 878,763 LTIP units outstanding and subject to vesting requirements for a total of 2,004,926 shares of our common stock; and • 512,085 shares of our common stock available for future grants under our equity incentive plans. Most of the outstanding shares of our common stock are eligible for resale in the public market and certain holders of our shares have the right to require us to file a registration statement for purposes of registering their shares for resale. A significant portion of these shares is held by a small number of stockholders. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline, which may make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. We are unable to predict the effect that sales of our common stock may have on the prevailing market price of our common stock. Transactions relating to our convertible note hedge and warrant transactions may affect the trading price of our common stock. In connection with the issuance of the Convertible Notes, we have entered into convertible note hedge and warrant transactions with affiliates of certain of the initial purchasers, which we refer to as the counterparties. Pursuant to the convertible note hedge, we have purchased from the counterparties a call option on our common stock, and pursuant to the warrant transaction, we have sold to the counterparties a warrant for the purchase of shares of our common stock. The warrant has an exercise price that is 82.2% higher than the closing price of our common stock on the date of the pricing of the Convertible Notes. Together, the convertible note hedge and warrant transactions are expected to provide us with some protection against increases in our stock price over the conversion price per share and, accordingly, reduce our exposure to potential dilution upon the conversion of the Convertible Notes. We used an aggregate of approximately $21.0 million of the net proceeds of the offering of the Convertible Notes to fund the net cost of these hedging transactions. In connection with these transactions, the counterparties to these transactions: • entered into various over-the-counter derivative transactions or purchased or sold our common stock in secondary market transactions at or about the time of the pricing of the Convertible Notes; and • may enter into, or may unwind, various over-the-counter derivatives or purchase or sell our common stock in secondary market transactions following the pricing of the Convertible Notes, including during any conversion reference period with respect to a conversion of Convertible Notes. 38 Table of Contents These activities may have the effect of increasing, or preventing a decline in, the market price of our common stock. In addition, any hedging transactions by the counterparties following the pricing of the Convertible Notes, including during any conversion reference period, may have an adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. The counterparties are likely to modify their hedge positions from time to time prior to conversion or maturity of the Convertible Notes by purchasing and selling shares of our common stock or other instruments, including over-the-counter derivative instruments, that they may wish to use in connection with such hedging. In particular, such hedging modifications may occur during a conversion reference period. In addition, we intend to exercise our purchased call option whenever Convertible Notes are converted, although we are not required to do so. In order to unwind any hedge positions with respect to our exercise of the purchased call option, the counterparties would expect to sell shares of common stock in secondary market transactions or unwind various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to the common stock during the conversion reference period for the converted Convertible Notes. The effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock will depend in part on current market conditions and therefore cannot be ascertained at this time. However, any of these activities could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our stock price has been and continues to be volatile. Our stock price has been extremely volatile recently, especially given current market conditions, and may continue to fluctuate as a result of various factors, such as: • general industry and economic conditions, such as the current global economic downturn; • general stock market volatility unrelated to our operating performance; • announcements relating to significant corporate transactions; • fluctuations in our quarterly and annual financial results; • operating and stock price performance of companies that investors deem comparable to us; • changes in government regulation or proposals relating thereto; and • sales or the expectation of sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market. The stock markets have, since late 2008, experienced extreme price fluctuations. These fluctuations often have been unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies whose stock is traded. Market volatility, as well as the global economic downturn, have adversely affected, and will likely continue to adversely affect, the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 39 Table of Contents 