Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. There are numerous and varied risks, known and unknown, that may prevent us from achieving our goals. The risks described below are not the only ones we will face. If any of the following risks or other risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations or future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In such event, the trading price of our common stock could decline and investors in our common stock could lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to Our Agribusiness Segment Adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, crop disease, pests and other natural conditions can impose significant costs and losses on our business. Fresh produce is vulnerable to adverse weather conditions, including windstorms, floods, drought and temperature extremes, which are quite common but difficult to predict. Unfavorable growing conditions can reduce both crop size and crop quality. In extreme cases, entire harvests may be lost in some geographic areas. These factors can increase costs, decrease revenues and lead to additional charges to earnings, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Citrus and avocado orchards are subject to damage from frost and freezes and this has happened periodically in the recent past. In some cases, the fruit is simply lost while in the case of extended periods of cold, the trees can also be damaged or killed. Fresh produce is also vulnerable to crop disease and to pests, e.g. the Mediterranean Fruit Fly and the Asian Citrus Psyillid (“ACP”), which may vary in severity and effect, depending on the stage of production at the time of infection or infestation, the type of treatment applied and climatic conditions. On December 31, 2010, the California Department of Food and Agriculture expanded its existing quarantine area and related restrictions to include all of Ventura County and a portion of Santa Barbara County due to the discovery of ACP infestation in Ventura County, near our Company’s orchards. ACP quarantines are now in place in Ventura, San Diego, Imperial, Orange, Los Angeles, San Bernardino, Riverside and a portion of Santa Barbara Counties in California. The quarantine prohibits the movement of nursery stock out of quarantine areas and requires that all citrus fruit be cleaned of leaves and stems prior to movement out of the quarantine area. 86% of our lemon orchards are located in the quarantine area. ACP is an aphid –like insect that is a serious pest to all citrus plants because it can transmit the disease, Huanglonbing (“HLB”), when it feeds on the plants’ leaves and trees. By itself, ACP causes only minor cosmetic damage to citrus trees. HLB, however, is considered to be one of the most devastating diseases of citrus in the world. Symptoms of HLB include yellow shoots, leaf mottle, small upright leaves and lopsided fruit with a bitter flavor. Trees infected with HLB decline in health, produce inedible fruit and eventually die, usually in 3 to 5 years after becoming infected. There is no cure for the disease and infected trees must be removed and destroyed to prevent further spreading. Both ACP and HLB are federal action quarantine pests subject to interstate and international quarantine restrictions by the United States Department of Agriculture (“USDA”). ACP and HLB exist in Florida, Louisiana, Georgia and South Carolina. ACP has been detected but not HLB in Texas, Mississippi and Alabama. ACP and HLB also exist in Mexico and certain other countries. To date, ACP has not been discovered in our orchards and HLB has not been detected in trapped ACP or trees in California, but there can be no assurance that HLB will not be detected in the future. The quarantine and treatment of ACP under current protocols is not expected to have a significant direct financial impact on our Company. There are a number of registered insecticides known to be effective against ACP. However, certain markets and customer responses to the discovery of ACP and the related quarantine could result in a significant decline in revenue due to restrictions on where our lemons can be sold and lower demand for our lemons. Additional government regulations and other quarantine requirements or customer handling and inspection requirements could increase agribusiness costs to our Company. Our citrus orchards could be at risk if ACP starts to transmit the HLB disease to our Company’s trees. Agribusiness costs could also increase significantly as a result of HLB. For example, a recent study in Florida indicated the presence of HLB has increased citrus production costs by as much as 40%. The costs to control these diseases and other infestations vary depending on the severity of the damage and the extent of the plantings affected. Moreover, there can be no assurance that available technologies to control such infestations will continue to be effective. These infestations can increase costs, decrease revenues and lead to additional charges to earnings, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 16 Our business is highly competitive and we cannot assure you that we will maintain our current market share. Many companies compete in our different businesses. However, only a few well-established companies operate on an international, national and regional basis with one or several product lines. We face strong competition from these and other companies in all our product lines. Important factors with respect to our competitors include the following: · Some of our competitors may have greater operating flexibility and, in certain cases, this may permit them to respond better or more quickly to changes in the industry or to introduce new products and packaging more quickly and with greater marketing support. · We cannot predict the pricing or promotional actions of our competitors or whether those actions will have a negative effect on us. There can be no assurance that we will continue to compete effectively with our present and future competitors, and our ability to compete could be materially adversely affected by our debt levels and debt service requirements. Our strategy of marketing and selling our lemons directly to our food service, wholesale and retail customers may not be successful. Prior to November 1, 2010, most of our lemons, including our packinghouse branded lemons, such as Santa® and Paula®, were marketed and sold under the Sunkist brand to food service industry wholesale and retail customers in the United States, Canada, Asia and certain other markets primarily through Sunkist, an agricultural marketing cooperative through which we previously sold our lemons. Effective November 1, 2010, we terminated the Sunkist License Agreement and began to market and sell our lemons directly to our food service wholesale and retail customers throughout the United States, Canada, Asia, Australia and certain other international markets. This represents a significant departure from our traditional method of selling our lemons through Sunkist, and there can be no assurance that such strategy will be successful. If we are not successful in implementing this strategy, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our earnings are sensitive to fluctuations in market prices and demand for our products. Excess supplies often cause severe price competition in our industry. Growing conditions in various parts of the world, particularly weather conditions such as windstorms, floods, droughts and freezes, as well as diseases and pests, are primary factors affecting market prices because of their influence on the supply and quality of product. Fresh produce is highly perishable and generally must be brought to market and sold soon after harvest. Some items, such as avocados, oranges and specialty citrus, must be sold more quickly, while other items can be held in cold storage for longer periods of time. The selling price received for each type of produce depends on all of these factors, including the availability and quality of the produce item in the market, and the availability and quality of competing types of produce. In addition, general public perceptions regarding the quality, safety or health risks associated with particular food products could reduce demand and prices for some of our products. To the extent that consumer preferences evolve away from products that we produce for health or other reasons, and we are unable to modify our products or to develop products that satisfy new consumer preferences, there will be a decreased demand for our products. However, even if market prices are unfavorable, produce items which are ready to be, or have been, harvested must be brought to market promptly. A decrease in the selling price received for our products due to the factors described above could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 17 Our earnings are subject to seasonal variability. Our earnings may be affected by seasonal factors, including: · the seasonality of our supplies and consumer demand; · the ability to process products during critical harvest periods; and · the timing and effects of ripening and perishability. Our lemons are generally grown and marketed throughout the year. Our Navel oranges are sold generally January through April and our Valencia oranges are sold generally June through September. Our avocados are sold generally throughout the year with the peak months being March through July. Our specialty citrus is sold generally from November through June, our cherries in the May/June time period and our pistachios in the September/October period. Currency exchange fluctuation may impact the results of our operations. We distribute our products both nationally and internationally. Our international sales are transacted in U.S. dollars. Our results of operations are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates in both sourcing and selling locations. In the past, periods of a strong U.S. dollar relative to other currencies has led international customers, particularly in Asia, to find alternative sources of fruit. Increases in commodity or raw product costs, such as fuel and paper, could adversely affect our operating results. Many factors may affect the cost and supply of fresh produce, including external conditions, commodity market fluctuations, currency fluctuations, changes in governmental laws and regulations, agricultural programs, severe and prolonged weather conditions and natural disasters. Increased costs for purchased fruit have in the past negatively impacted our operating results, and there can be no assurance that they will not adversely affect our operating results in the future. The price of various commodities can significantly affect our costs. Our fuel costs have increased substantially in recent years, and there can be no assurance that there will not be further increases in the future. In addition, the rising price of oil can have a significant impact on the cost of our herbicides and pesticides. The cost of paper is also significant to us because some of our products are packed in cardboard boxes for shipment. If the price of paper increases and we are not able to effectively pass these price increases along to our customers, then our operating income will decrease. Increased costs for paper have in the past negatively impacted our operating income, and there can be no assurance that these increased costs will not adversely affect our operating results in the future. The lack of sufficient water would severely impact our ability to produce crops or develop real estate. The average rainfall in Ventura County is between 14 and 15 inches per year, with most of it falling in fall and winter. These amounts are substantially below amounts required to grow crops and therefore we are dependent on our rights to pump water from underground aquifers. Extended periods of drought in California may put additional pressure on the use and availability of water for agricultural uses and in some cases Governmental authorities have diverted water to other uses. As California has grown, there are increasing and multiple pressures on the use and distribution of water, which many view as a finite resource. Lack of available potable water can also limit real estate development. The use of herbicides, pesticides and other potentially hazardous substances in our operations may lead to environmental damage and result in increased costs to us. We use herbicides, pesticides and other potentially hazardous substances in the operation of our business. We may have to pay for the costs or damages associated with the improper application, accidental release or the use or misuse of such substances. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover such costs or damages or may not continue to be available at a price or under terms that are satisfactory to us. In such cases, payment of such costs or damages could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 18 Global capital and credit market issues affect our liquidity, increase our costs of borrowing and disrupt the operations of our suppliers and customers. The global capital and credit markets have experienced increased volatility and disruption over the past year, making it more difficult for companies to access those markets. We depend in part on stable, liquid and well-functioning capital and credit markets to fund our operations. Although we believe that our operating cash flows and existing credit facilities will permit us to meet our financing needs for the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that continued or increased volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets will not impair our liquidity or increase our costs of borrowing. Our business could also be negatively impacted if our suppliers or customers experience disruptions resulting from tighter capital and credit markets or a slowdown in the general economy. A global economic downturn may have an adverse impact on participants in our industry, which cannot be fully predicted. The full impact of a global economic downturn on customers, vendors and other business partners cannot be anticipated. For example, major customers or vendors may have financial challenges unrelated to us that could result in a decrease in their business with us or, in extreme cases, cause them to file for bankruptcy protection. Similarly, parties to contracts may be forced to breach their obligations under those contracts. Although we exercise prudent oversight of the credit ratings and financial strength of our major business partners and seek to diversify our risk to any single business partner, there can be no assurance that there will not be a bank, insurance company, supplier, customer or other financial partner that is unable to meet its contractual commitments to us. Similarly, stresses and pressures in the industry may result in impacts on our business partners and competitors, which could have wide ranging impacts on the future of the industry. Terrorism and the uncertainty of war may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred in New York and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001, the subsequent response by the United States in Afghanistan, Iraq and other locations, and other acts of violence or war in the United States or abroad may affect the markets in which we operate and our operations and profitability. Further terrorist attacks against the United States or operators of United States-owned businesses outside the United States may occur, or hostilities could develop based on the current international situation. The potential near-term and long-term effect these attacks may have on our business operations, our customers, the markets for our products, the United States economy and the economies of other places we source or sell our products is uncertain. The consequences of any terrorist attacks, or any armed conflicts, are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our markets or our business. We are subject to the risk of product contamination and product liability claims. The sale of food products for human consumption involves the risk of injury to consumers. Such injuries may result from tampering by unauthorized third parties, product contamination or spoilage, including the presence of foreign objects, substances, chemicals, other agents, or residues introduced during the growing, storage, handling or transportation phases. While we are subject to governmental inspection and regulations and believe our facilities comply in all material respects with all applicable laws and regulations, we cannot be sure that consumption of our products will not cause a health-related illness in the future or that we will not be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our corporate and brand image. Moreover, claims or liabilities of this sort might not be covered by our insurance or by any rights of indemnity or contribution that we may have against others. We maintain product liability insurance, however, we cannot be sure that we will not incur claims or liabilities for which we are not insured or that exceed the amount of our insurance coverage. We are subject to transportation risks. An extended interruption in our ability to ship our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, any extended disruption in the distribution of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we believe we are adequately insured and would attempt to transport our products by alternative means if we were to experience an interruption due to strike, natural disasters or otherwise, we cannot be sure that we would be able to do so or be successful in doing so in a timely and cost-effective manner. 19 Events or rumors relating to the LIMONEIRA, Santa®, Paula®, Bridal Veil®, Fountain®, Golden Bowl® and Level®, brands could significantly impact our business. Consumer and institutional recognition of the LIMONEIRA, Santa®, Paula®, Bridal Veil®, Fountain®, Golden Bowl® and Level®, trademarks and related brands and the association of these brands with high quality and safe food products are an integral part of our business. The occurrence of any events or rumors that cause consumers and/or institutions to no longer associate these brands with high quality and safe food products may materially adversely affect the value of our brand names and demand for our products. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect our prospects. We currently depend heavily on the services of our key management personnel. The loss of any key personnel could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or our ability to pursue land development. Our success will also depend in part on our ability to attract and retain additional qualified management personnel. Inflation can have a significant adverse effect on our operations. Inflation can have a major impact on our farming operations. The farming operations are most affected by escalating costs and unpredictable revenues (due to an oversupply of certain crops) and very high irrigation water costs. High fixed water costs related to our farm lands will continue to adversely affect earnings. Prices received for many of our products are dependent upon prevailing market conditions and commodity prices. Therefore, it is difficult for us to accurately predict revenue, just as we cannot pass on cost increases caused by general inflation, except to the extent reflected in market conditions and commodity prices. Government regulation could increase our costs of production and increase legal and regulatory expenses. Growing, packaging, storing and distributing food products are activities subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation, as well as foreign regulation. These aspects of our operations are regulated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”), the USDA and various state and local public health and agricultural agencies. On January 4, 2011, the FDA Food Safety Modernization Act, which is intended to ensure food safety, was enacted. This Act provides direct recall authority to the FDA and includes a number of other provisions designed to enhance food safety, including increased inspections by the FDA of food facilities. Our business is also affected by import and export controls and similar laws and regulations, both in the United States and elsewhere. Issues such as health and safety, which slow or otherwise restrict imports and exports, could adversely affect our business. In addition, the modification of existing laws or regulations or the introduction of new laws or regulations could require us to make material expenditures or otherwise adversely affect the way that we have historically operated our business. Our current international sales, as well as our desired growth in international markets, subject us to risks associated with doing business in corrupt environments. Our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to sell our products in international markets. In many countries outside of the United States, particularly in those with developing economies, it may be common for others to engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or similar local anti-bribery laws. These laws generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors or agents from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Failure to comply with these laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 20 Risks Related to Our Indebtedness We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations. To service our debt, we require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash, make scheduled payments or refinance our obligations depends on our successful financial and operating performance. Our financial and operating performance, cash flow and capital resources depend upon prevailing economic conditions and various financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include among others: · economic and competitive conditions; · changes in laws and regulations; · operating difficulties, increased operating costs or pricing pressures we may experience; and · delays in implementing any strategic projects. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell material assets or operations, obtain additional capital or restructure our debt. If we are required to take any actions referred to above, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we cannot assure you that we would be able to take any of these actions on terms acceptable to us, or at all, or that these actions would enable us to continue to satisfy our capital requirements or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our various debt agreements. Restrictive covenants in our debt instruments restrict or prohibit our ability to engage in or enter into a variety of transactions, which could adversely restrict our financial and operating flexibility and subject us to other risks. Our revolving credit and term loan facilities contain various restrictive covenants that limit our ability to take certain actions. In particular, these agreements limit our and our ability to, among other things: · incur additional indebtedness; · make certain investments or acquisitions; · create certain liens on our assets; · engage in certain types of transactions with affiliates; · merge, consolidate or transfer substantially all our assets; and · transfer and sell assets. Our revolving credit facility (the “Rabobank Credit Facility”) with Rabobank N.A. (“Rabobank”) contains a financial covenant that requires us to maintain compliance with a specified debt service coverage ratio on an annual basis. At October 31, 2011 and 2010, we were in compliance with such debt service coverage ratio. Our failure to comply with this covenant in the future may result in the declaration of an event of default under our Rabobank Credit Facility. Any or all of these covenants could have a material adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition or other corporate opportunities and to fund our operations. Any future debt could also contain financial and other covenants more restrictive than those imposed under our line of credit and term loan facilities. A breach of a covenant or other provision in any credit facility governing our current and future indebtedness could result in a default under that facility and, due to cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions, could result in a default under our other credit facilities. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under any of our credit facilities, the applicable lender(s) could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable and, with respect to our revolving credit facility, terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, our lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the indebtedness. If the lenders under our current or future indebtedness were to accelerate the payment of the indebtedness, we cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to repay in full our outstanding indebtedness. 21 Despite our relatively high current indebtedness levels and the restrictive covenants set forth in agreements governing our indebtedness, we may still incur significant additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness. Incurring more indebtedness could increase the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. Subject to the restrictions in our credit facilities, we may incur significant additional indebtedness. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could increase. Some of our debt is based on variable rates of interest, which could result in higher interest expenses in the event of an increase in the interest rates. Our Rabobank Credit Facility and a portion of our three term loans (“Farm Credit West Term Loans”) and non-revolving line of credit (“Farm Credit West Line of Credit”) with Farm Credit West FLCA and Farm Credit West, PCA (collectively “Farm Credit West”) currently bear interest at variable rates, which will generally change as interest rates change. We bear the risk that the rates we are charged by our lenders will increase faster than the earnings and cash flow of our business, which could reduce profitability, adversely affect our ability to service our debt, cause us to breach covenants contained in our Rabobank Credit Facility, or our Farm Credit West Term Loans or Farm Credit West Line of Credit, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, while we have entered into interest rate swaps as hedging instruments to fix a substantial portion of the variable component of our indebtedness, such interest rate swaps could also have an adverse impact on the comparative results of operation of our Company if prevailing interest rates remain below fixed rates established in such instruments. 22 Risks Related to Our Real Estate Development Segment We are involved in a cyclical industry and are affected by changes in general and local economic conditions. The real estate development industry is cyclical and is significantly affected by changes in general and local economic conditions, including: · employment levels; · availability of financing; · interest rates; · consumer confidence; · demand for the developed product, whether residential or industrial; and · supply of similar product, whether residential or industrial. The process of project development and the commitment of financial and other resources occurs long before a real estate project comes to market. A real estate project could come to market at a time when the real estate market is depressed. It is also possible in a rural area like ours that no market for the project will develop as projected. A recession in the global economy, or a downturn in national or regional economic conditions, could adversely impact our real estate development business. Future economic instability or tightening in the credit markets could lead to another housing market collapse, which could adversely affect our real estate development operations. Our future real estate sales, revenues, financial condition and results of operations could suffer as a result. Our business is especially sensitive to economic conditions in California, where our properties are located. Higher interest rates and lack of available financing can have significant impacts on the real estate industry. Higher interest rates generally impact the real estate industry by making it harder for buyers to qualify for financing, which can lead to a decrease in the demand for residential, commercial or industrial sites. Any decrease in demand will negatively impact our proposed developments. Lack of available credit to finance real estate purchases can also negatively impact demand. Any downturn in the economy or consumer confidence can also be expected to result in reduced housing demand and slower industrial development, which would negatively impact the demand for land we are developing. We are subject to various land use regulations and require governmental approvals for our developments that could be denied. In planning and developing our land, we are subject to various local, state, and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning zoning, infrastructure design, subdivision of land, and construction. All of our new developments require amending existing general plan and zoning designations, so it is possible that our entitlement applications could be denied. In addition, the zoning that ultimately is approved could include density provisions that would limit the number of homes and other structures that could be built within the boundaries of a particular area, which could adversely impact the financial returns from a given project. In addition, many states, cities and counties (including Ventura County) have in the past approved various “slow growth” or “urban limit line” measures. In March 2011, LAFCo approved conditions that will allow for the annexation and incorporation of East Area 1 into the City of Santa Paula. If LAFCo does not provide final approval for the annexation, or if unforeseen regulatory challenges occur, we may not be able to develop East Area I as planned and the approximately $44 million investment we have into the project could be impaired. 23 Third-party litigation could increase the time and cost of our development efforts. The land use approval processes we must follow to ultimately develop our projects have become increasingly complex. Moreover, the statutes, regulations and ordinances governing the approval processes provide third parties the opportunity to challenge the proposed plans and approvals. As a result, the prospect of third-party challenges to planned real estate developments provides additional uncertainties in real estate development planning and entitlements. Third-party challenges in the form of litigation would, by their nature, adversely affect the length of time and the cost required to obtain the necessary approvals. In addition, adverse decisions arising from any litigation would increase the costs and length of time to obtain ultimate approval of a project and could adversely affect the design, scope, plans and profitability of a project. We are subject to environmental regulations and opposition from environmental groups that could cause delays and increase the costs of our development efforts or preclude such development entirely. Environmental laws that apply to a given site can vary greatly according to the site’s location and condition, present and former uses of the site, and the presence or absence of sensitive elements like wetlands and endangered species. Environmental laws and conditions may (i) result in delays, (ii) cause us to incur additional costs for compliance, where a significant amount of our developable land is located, mitigation and processing land use applications, or (iii) preclude development in specific areas. In addition, in California, third parties have the ability to file litigation challenging the approval of a project, which they usually do by alleging inadequate disclosure and mitigation of the environmental impacts of the project. While we have worked with representatives of various environmental interests and wildlife agencies to minimize and mitigate the impacts of our planned projects, certain groups opposed to development may oppose our projects vigorously, so litigation challenging their approval could occur. Recent concerns over the impact of development on water availability and global warming increases the breadth of potential obstacles that our developments face. Our developable land is concentrated entirely in California. All of our developable land is in California and our business is especially sensitive to the economic conditions within California. Any adverse change in the economic climate of California, which is currently in a recession, or our region of that state, and any adverse change in the political or regulatory climate of California, or the counties where our land is located could adversely affect our real estate development activities. There is no consensus as to when the recession will end or how long it could take to recover from the recession. Ultimately, our ability to sell or lease lots may decline as a result of weak economic conditions or restrictive regulations. If the real estate industry continues to be stagnant or the instability of the mortgage industry and commercial real estate financing continues, it could have an adverse effect on our real estate business. Our residential housing projects are currently in various stages of planning and entitlement, and therefore they have not been impacted by the recent downturn in the housing market or the mortgage lending crisis. However, if the housing market continues to be stagnant, experiences another downturn or the instability of the mortgage industry continues at the time these projects move into their development and marketing phases, our residential business could be adversely affected. An excess supply of homes available due to foreclosures or the expectation of deflation in house prices could also have a negative impact on our ability to sell our inventory when it becomes available. We rely on contractual arrangements with third party advisors to assist us in carrying out our real estate development projects and are subject to risks associated with such arrangements. We utilize third party contractor and consultant arrangements to assist us in operating our real estate development segment. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing direct control over this business segment. For example, our third party advisors could fail to take actions required for our real estate development businesses despite its contractual obligation to do so. If the third party advisors fail to perform under their agreements with us, we may have to rely on legal remedies under the law, which may not be effective. In addition, we cannot assure you that our third party advisors would always act in our best interests. 24 If we are unable to complete land development projects within forecasted time and budget expectations, if at all, our financial results may be negatively affected. We intend to develop land and real estate properties as suitable opportunities arise, taking into consideration the general economic climate. New real estate development projects have a number of risks, including the following: · Construction delays or cost overruns that may increase project costs; · Development costs incurred for projects that are not pursued to completion; · Earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires or other natural disasters that could adversely affect a project; · Defects in design or construction that may result in additional costs to remedy or require all or a portion of a property to be closed during the period required to rectify the situation; and · Our ability to raise capital. If any development project is not completed on time or within budget, our financial results may be negatively affected. We could experience a reduction in revenues or reduced cash flows if we are unable to obtain reasonably priced financing to support our real estate development projects and land development activities. The real estate development industry is capital intensive, and development requires significant up-front expenditures to develop land and begin real estate construction. Accordingly, we have and may continue to incur substantial indebtedness to finance our real estate development and land development activities. Although we believe that internally generated funds and current borrowing capacity will be sufficient to fund our capital and other expenditures, including additional land acquisition, development and construction activities, the amounts available from such sources may not be adequate to meet our needs. If such sources were insufficient, we would seek additional capital in the form of debt from a variety of potential sources, including bank financing. The availability of borrowed funds to be used for additional land acquisition, development and construction may be greatly reduced, and the lending community may require increased amounts of equity to be invested in a project by borrowers in connection with new loans. The failure to obtain sufficient capital to fund our planned expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations and our results of operations in future periods. We may encounter other risks that could impact our ability to develop our land. We may also encounter other difficulties in developing our land, including: · natural risks, such as geological and soil problems, earthquakes, fire, heavy rains and flooding and heavy winds; · shortages of qualified trades people; · reliance on local contractors, who may be inadequately capitalized; · shortages of materials; and · increases in the cost of certain materials. 25 Risks Relating to Our Common Stock The value of our common stock could be volatile. The overall market and the price of our common stock may fluctuate greatly and we cannot assure you that you will be able to resell shares at or above market price. The trading price of our common stock may be significantly affected by various factors, including: · quarterly fluctuations in our operating results; · changes in investors’ and analysts’ perception of the business risks and conditions of our business; · our ability to meet the earnings estimates and other performance expectations of financial analysts or investors; · unfavorable commentary or downgrades of our stock by equity research analysts; · fluctuations in the stock prices of our peer companies or in stock markets in general; and · general economic or political conditions. Concentrated ownership of our common stock creates a risk of sudden change in our share price. As of October 31, 2011, directors and members of our executive management team beneficially owned or controlled approximately 12.6% of our common stock. Investors who purchase our common stock may be subject to certain risks due to the concentrated ownership of our common stock. The sale by any of our large stockholders of a significant portion of that stockholder’s holdings could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the registration of any significant amount of additional shares of our common stock will have the immediate effect of increasing the public float of our common stock and any such increase may cause the market price of our common stock to decline or fluctuate significantly. Our charter documents contain provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a change of control. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change in control would be beneficial to stockholders. These provisions include the following: · division of our board of directors into three classes, with each class serving a staggered three-year term; · removal of directors by stockholders by a supermajority of two-thirds of the outstanding shares; · ability of the board of directors to authorize the issuance of preferred stock in series without stockholder approval; and · prohibitions on our stockholders that prevent them from acting by written consent and limitations on calling special meetings. We will incur increased costs as a result of being a publicly traded company. As a Company with publicly traded securities, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant legal, accounting and other expenses not historically incurred. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX”), as well as rules promulgated by the SEC and NASDAQ, require us to adopt corporate governance practices applicable to U.S. public companies. These rules and regulations may increase our legal and financial compliance costs, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. If we do not timely satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of SOX, the trading price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Under current SEC rules for accelerated filers, we are subject to Section 404 of SOX, which requires us to document and test the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in accordance with an established internal control framework and to report on our conclusion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This Annual Report includes management's first report on internal control over financial reporting as well as our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm’s first audit report on internal control over financial reporting. We received an unqualified opinion from such accounting firm for fiscal year 2011. Any future delays or difficulty in satisfying the requirements of SOX, including a qualified opinion by an independent registered public accounting firm, could, among other things, cause investors to lose confidence in, or otherwise be unable to rely on, the accuracy of our reported financial information, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. 26 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 