Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should consider the risks described below that we believe may be material to investors in evaluating us. This section contains forward-looking statements, and in considering these statements, you should refer to the qualifications and limitations on our forward-looking statements that are described in SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT before the beginning of Item 1. Global economic conditions and market disruptions may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There continues to be global economic uncertainty, elevated levels of unemployment, reduced levels of economic activity, and it is uncertain as to when economic conditions will improve. These negative economic conditions in the markets where we operate, and other events or factors that adversely affect demand in the portable services industry, could continue to adversely affect our business. Though we have strengthened our efforts in collections and inventory control, continued worsening of conditions could adversely affect the collection of trade receivables on a timely basis, could result in additional reserves for uncollectible accounts and, in the event of continued contraction in container and modular unit sales and leasing, could lead to a build-up of inventory and lease fleet levels. These factors would have a further adverse impact on operating results and cash flows. In addition, fluctuations in the rates of exchange for the U.S. dollar against the Australian, New Zealand and Canadian dollars could significantly affect our results of operations through lower than anticipated reported revenues and profitability as a result of the translation of our foreign operations’ financial results into U.S. dollars. We operate with a significant amount of indebtedness, which is secured by all or substantially all of our assets, subject to variable interest rates and contain restrictive covenants. Our substantial indebtedness could have adverse consequences, such as: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations at Royal Wolf and Pac-Van to payments on our indebtedness, which could reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund future operating capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • expose us to the risk of increased interest rates, as our borrowings on our secured senior credit facilities are at variable rates of interest; • require us to sell assets to reduce indebtedness or influence our decisions about whether to do so; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or pursuing business opportunities; • limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds; and • violating covenants in these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations; including substantially increasing our cost of borrowing and restricting our future operations, if not cured or waived. In addition, the lenders may be able to terminate any commitments they had made to supply us with further funds. Accordingly, we may not be able to fully repay our debt obligations, if some or all of our debt obligations are accelerated upon an event of default. Our senior credit agreements also contain various restrictive covenants that limit the operations of our business. In particular, these agreements include covenants and restrictions relating to: • payments and distributions to GFN; • liens and sale-leaseback transactions; • loans and investments; • debt and hedging arrangements; • mergers, acquisitions and asset sales; • transactions with affiliates; and • changes in business activities. I-21 Table of Contents There were no events of default under the covenants of our senior credit facilities at June 30, 2012. While we believe we will remain in compliance with covenants in the foreseeable future and that our relationships with our senior lenders are good, there is no assurance our lenders would consent to an amendment or waiver in the event of noncompliance; or that such consent would not be conditioned upon the receipt of a cash payment, revised principal payout terms, increased interest rates, or restrictions in the expansion of the credit facilities for the foreseeable future; or that our senior lenders would not exercise rights that would be available to them, including, among other things, demanding payment of outstanding borrowings. In addition, our ability to obtain additional capital or alternative borrowing arrangements at reasonable rates may be adversely affected. All or any of these adverse events would further limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to downturns in our business. Reference is made to Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding our indebtedness. Our inability to raise capital. Our inability to obtain capital in the amounts and at the times when needed, may have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including substantially increasing our cost of borrowing and restricting our future operations. These events may significantly reduce the value of your investment. A write-off of all or a part of our goodwill and intangibles would hurt our operating results and reduce our stockholders’ equity. As a result of our acquisitions of Royal Wolf, Pac-Van and other smaller businesses, we have recorded significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets. Goodwill represents the excess of the total purchase price of these acquisitions over the fair value of the net assets acquired. We are not permitted to amortize goodwill under U.S. accounting standards and instead we review goodwill, as well as intangible assets, at least annually for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of acquired businesses, adverse market conditions and adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of the acquired business. In the event impairment is identified, a charge to earnings would be recorded. Although it does not affect our cash flow, a write-off of all or a part of our goodwill or intangibles would adversely affect our operating results and stockholders’ equity. At each yearend of the two fiscal years prior to June 30, 2012, we recognized an impairment charge to the goodwill recorded in the Pac-Van acquisition. At June 30, 2012, there was no impairment charge recorded, but future write-downs may be occur if conditions, such as those discussed above, would adversely impair our operations. Reference is made to Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding goodwill and intangible assets. Future acquisitions of businesses could subject us to additional business, operating and industry risks, the impact of which cannot presently be evaluated, and could adversely impact our capital structure. We intend to pursue acquisition opportunities in an effort to diversify our investments and grow our business. Any business we acquire may cause us to be affected by numerous risks inherent in the acquired business’ operations. If we acquire a business in an industry characterized by a high level of risk, we may be affected by the currently unascertainable risks of that industry. Although we will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular industry or target business, we cannot assure that we will be able to properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. In addition, the financing of any acquisition we complete could adversely impact our capital structure as any such financing would likely include the issuance of additional equity securities and/or the borrowing of additional funds. The issuance of additional equity securities may significantly reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and/or adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Increasing our indebtedness could increase the risk of a default that would entitle the holder to declare all of such indebtedness due and payable and/or to seize any collateral securing the indebtedness. In addition, default under one debt instrument could in turn permit lenders under other debt instruments to declare borrowings outstanding under those other instruments to be due and payable pursuant to cross default clauses. Accordingly, the financing of future acquisitions could adversely impact our capital structure and any equity interests in us. While part of our long-term business strategy is to acquire additional businesses, there is no assurance that we will be able to identify businesses that we can acquire upon terms we believe acceptable, or if such acquisitions require additional financing, that we could obtain such additional financing. We cannot ascertain the availability of businesses to acquire, nor the capital requirements for future transactions. We cannot assure that, if required, additional financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular acquisition, we would be compelled to either restructure the I-22 Table of Contents transaction or abandon that particular acquisition. In addition, if we consummate a future acquisition, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing may impact the continued development or growth of the target business. Our long-term growth plan includes the expansion of operations into markets outside of the United States and the Asia-Pacific area. Such international expansion may not prove successful, and may divert significant capital, resources and management’s time and attention and adversely affect our on-going operations. To date, we have conducted all of our business within North America and the Asia-Pacific area. However, we have intentions in the future to enter international markets, including possibly South America and the European markets, which will require substantial amounts of management time and attention. Our products and overall marketing approach may not be accepted in other markets to the extent needed to make our international expansion profitable. In addition, the additional demands on management from these activities may detract from our efforts in our current markets and adversely affect our operating results therein. Any international expansion will expose us to the risks normally associated with conducting international business operations, including unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, changes in foreign legislation, possible foreign currency controls, currency exchange rate fluctuations or devaluations, tariffs, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, difficulties in obtaining and managing vendors and distributors, potential negative tax consequences and difficulties collecting accounts receivable. Our long-term growth could strain our management resources. Our future performance will depend in large part on our ability to manage our long-term planned growth that could strain our existing management, human and other resources. To successfully manage this growth, we must continue to add managers and employees and improve our operating, financial and other internal procedures and controls. We also must effectively motivate, train and manage employees. If we do not manage our growth effectively, it would adversely affect our future operating results. To complete future business combinations, we may issue shares of our capital stock that would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and could cause a change in control of our ownership, or incur debt, which could adversely affect our financial condition. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 100,000,000 shares of common stock and up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock. At June 30, 2012, there were 74,042,748 authorized shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants and options issued under our Stock Incentive Plan (see Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). If we seek to consummate future business combinations, we may be required to issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, to complete the other business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: • may significantly reduce the equity interest of investors; • may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded to our common stock; • may cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and • may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. In addition, we may incur substantial debt to complete another business combination. The incurrence of debt could result in: • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; • our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; and • our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt security instrument covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt instrument is outstanding. We are subject to laws and governmental regulations and actions that affect our operating results and financial condition. Our business is subject to regulation and taxation under a wide variety of foreign and U.S. federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies including those imposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Internal Revenue Service, the I-23 Table of Contents Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and NASDAQ, as well as applicable labor laws. Although we have policies and procedures designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations, failure to comply with the various laws and regulations may result in civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased costs of compliance, additional taxation and restatement of our financial statements. There can also be no assurance that, in response to current economic conditions or the current political environment or otherwise, laws and regulations will not be implemented or changed in ways that adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, such as recently adopted legislation that expands health care coverage costs, or facilitates union activity or federal legislative proposals to otherwise increase taxation and operating costs. We are exposed to various possible claims relating to our business and our insurance may not fully protect us. We are exposed to various possible claims relating to our business. These possible claims include those relating to: (i) personal injury or death caused by container products, mobile offices or modular units leased or sold by us; (ii) accidents involving our vehicles and our employees; (iii) employment-related claims; (iv) property damage and (v) commercial claims. We believe that we have adequate insurance coverage for the protection of our assets and operations. However, our insurance may not fully protect us for certain types of claims, such as claims for punitive damages or for damages arising from intentional misconduct, which are often alleged in third party lawsuits. In addition, we may be exposed to uninsured liability at levels in excess of our policy limits. If we are found liable for any significant claims that are not covered by insurance, our liquidity and operating results could be materially adversely affected. It is possible that our insurance carrier may disclaim coverage for any class action and derivative lawsuits against us. It is also possible that some or all of the insurance that is currently available to us will not be available in the future on economically reasonable terms or not available at all. In addition, whether we are covered by insurance or not, certain claims may have the potential for negative publicity surrounding such claims, which may adversely impact our operating results, value of our public securities, or give rise to additional similar claims being filed. Disruptions in our information technology systems could limit our ability to effectively monitor and control our operations and adversely affect our operations. Our information technology systems facilitate our ability to monitor and control our operations and adjust to changing market conditions. Any disruption in our information technology systems or the failure of these systems to operate as expected could, depending on the magnitude of the problem, adversely affect our operating results by limiting our capacity to effectively transact business, monitor and control our operations and adjust to changing market conditions in a timely manner. The delay or failure to implement information system upgrades and new systems effectively could disrupt our business, distract management’s focus and attention from our business operations and growth initiatives, and increase our implementation and operating costs, any of which could negatively impact our operations and operating results. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for stockholders to resell common stock when they want or at a price they find attractive. We expect that the market price of our common stock will fluctuate. Our common stock price can fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in interest rates and other general economic conditions; • significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors; • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; • news reports relating to trends, concerns, litigation, regulatory changes and other issues in our industry; • geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts; • relatively low trading volume; and • significant concentration of ownership in our common stock. I-24 Table of Contents If equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock will rely in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. We do not control these analysts. The price of our stock could decline if one or more equity analysts downgrade our stock or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock, which may limit the return on your investment in us. Except for payment of dividends on our preferred stock and on the capital stock of Royal Wolf, we intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Our outstanding options and warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of common stock and increase the difficulty of effecting future business combinations. At June 30, 2012, we had outstanding options and warrants to purchase 3,937,287 shares of common stock. The potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares of common stock upon exercise of these warrants and options could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business. Such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants and options could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future financing. Unionization by some or all of our employees could cause increases in operating costs. Our employees are not presently covered by collective bargaining agreements. Unions may attempt to organize our employees in the future. We are unable to predict the outcome of any continuing or future efforts to organize our employees, the terms of any future labor agreements, or the effect, if any, those agreements might have on our operations or financial performance. Significant Risks Related Primarily to Our Operations in the Asia-Pacific Area The future performance of Royal Wolf depends on customer demand for portable container solutions as well as the expansion of the portable container solutions products market in Australia. Any reduction in customer demand, failure of customer demand to grow, or failure of Royal Wolf to meet changes in customer demand or preferences may adversely affect Royal Wolf’s businesses, operational performance, growth prospects and financial position. Royal Wolf is also subject to demand fluctuations in key markets such as resources, construction, manufacturing, and retail. The success and ability to drive future growth is dependent to a large extent on brand reputation. Royal Wolf believes its brand reputation is a key driver in its success and its ability to drive future growth. Any adverse change to the reputation of Royal Wolf may adversely affect the Company’s businesses, operational performance and financial condition. Royal Wolf owns the trademark and license for the name “Royal Wolf” in Australia, New Zealand and surrounding islands in the Asia-Pacific region. There is a risk that use of the “Royal Wolf” brand by third parties in jurisdictions in which Royal Wolf does not own the trademark may adversely impact the Royal Wolf brand. Royal Wolf’s ability to achieve its long-term business strategy is dependent to a certain extent on its supply chain and purchasing. Royal Wolf’s long-term business strategy assumes a certain level of growth in Australian and New Zealand demand for container based solutions. Royal Wolf’s ability to meet this demand is dependent, to a certain extent, on the ability of Royal Wolf to purchase storage containers economically and on an on-time basis. Historically, Royal Wolf has successfully worked with shipping lines and international container leasing companies to purchase used containers, and with manufacturers and brokers, including in China, to purchase new containers, but there can be no guarantee of this in the future. Changes to shipping line practices with respect to used containers, and adverse changes in trade practices, regulations and relations between Australia and its trading partners, including China, could adversely impact Royal Wolf’s ability to purchase containers or impact the price at which Royal Wolf is able to purchase containers. Historically, Royal Wolf has relied on internal supply chain and sourcing arrangements, international suppliers and the logistics industry to relocate containers. Changes to these arrangements, constraints on the supply chain, failure of suppliers to deliver or I-25 Table of Contents deliver in a timely manner, or material increases in the price of new or used containers could have an adverse impact on Royal Wolf’s business, operational performance, profit margins and financial results. Royal Wolf’s expansion plans involve an element of risk and could strain management resources. Royal Wolf intends to pursue a growth strategy involving organic and non-organic growth. There is a no guarantee that such growth will occur or be successful. Royal Wolf may incur significant capital expenditure in connection with expansion plans that may not be realized or may not deliver the earnings that are expected. In addition, Royal Wolf’s expansion plans may, in the future, give rise to risks or problems, including the diversion of management’s attention and resources, which may have a materially adverse impact on the performance of Royal Wolf. Limitations on Royal Wolf’s growth and expansion, or materially adverse changes arising from expansion plans, may affect the operating and financial performance of Royal Wolf. Failure to retain key personnel could adversely affect Royal Wolf’s ability to execute its business strategy. The successful operation and growth of Royal Wolf depends, to a significant extent, upon the performance and expertise of key staff and Royal Wolf’s ability to attract and retain skilled employees. Changes that adversely affect Royal Wolf’s ability to attract and retain skilled employees could materially impact Royal Wolf’s business, operational performance and financial results. Additionally, Royal Wolf does not maintain key person insurance, and as such may be adversely impacted by the departure of key staff. Royal Wolf conducts its business in a highly competitive sector. Royal Wolf’s faces competition in the portable buildings, freight and portable storage markets. Royal Wolf also faces potentially significant competition from modular industry companies who have non-container portable building offerings, especially from several national competitors in Australia who have greater financial resources and pricing flexibility than Royal Wolf. As a result, Royal Wolf is subject to potential entry by new domestic and foreign competitors and the provision of new products or services, aggressive pricing and lease rates offered by existing competitors. Royal Wolf may not always be able to match its competitors in service levels, functionality and price. The emergence of a new competitor with international reach, or increased focus on the rental model by existing competitors, particularly with an extensive distribution network, could have an adverse effect on Royal Wolf’s business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Also, continued service improvement by competitors may result in Royal Wolf’s customers using substitutes in place of some of Royal Wolf’s products. Royal Wolf may not always be able to match its competitors in both functionality and price, which could negatively impact Royal Wolf’s revenues. In addition, some of Royal Wolf’s unique products are the subject of patent applications only and there is no guarantee that those applications will become effective. If the patent applications do not become effective, there is a risk that Royal Wolf’s competitors could produce similar rival products, which may have an adverse effect on Royal Wolf. Royal Wolf is subject to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Royal Wolf is subject to exchange rate fluctuations, particularly as it sources a substantial portion of its portable container solutions fleet from China in purchases, which are U.S. dollar-denominated. While Royal Wolf has a hedging policy to mitigate this risk, unhedged exchange rate fluctuations in the Australian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar and, to a lesser extent, the New Zealand dollar, may adversely affect the financial performance of Royal Wolf, including its financial position, cash flows, distributions, growth prospects, and Share price Royal Wolf is subject to Australian and New Zealand taxation and tariff regulation. Significant recent reforms and current proposals for further reforms to tax laws in the jurisdictions within which Royal Wolf operates may give rise to uncertainty. The precise scope and impact of future changes to tax laws may not be known. Royal Wolf is also subject to import tariffs with respect to the portable container products it sources from overseas. Any changes to such tax or tariff laws (including the imposition of, or increases to, such taxes or tariffs), their interpretation or the manner in which they are administered by the relevant government agency or the current rate of company income tax or import tariff may impact the operational or financial performance of Royal Wolf (or customers in its key end markets). Royal wolf may face a tightening labor force and is subject to Occupational Health and Safety regulations. Royal Wolf’s ability to remain productive, profitable and competitive and to effect its planned growth initiatives depends on its ability to attract and retain workers. Tightening of the labor market in key regions due to a shortage of suitably skilled workers may inhibit Royal Wolf’s ability to hire and retain employees. Additionally, rising wages paid to employees may pose a risk to Royal Wolf’s margins if it is unable to pass on such higher costs through price increases. I-26 Table of Contents Royal Wolf is also subject to Occupational Health and Safety regulations. If Royal Wolf is not able to maintain its working conditions to meet Occupational Health and Safety regulations it may impact Royal Wolf’s operations and ability to attract and retain workers and also result in contravention of those regulations, which may give rise to potential criminal and civil liability and also damage Royal Wolf’s brand and reputation. Significant Risks Related Primarily to Our Business and Operations in North America General or localized economic downturns or weakness may adversely affect Pac-Van’s customers, in particular those in the construction industry, which may reduce demand for Pac-Van’s products and services and negatively impact our future revenues and results of operations. A significant portion of Pac-Van’s revenues is derived from customers who are in industries and businesses that are cyclical in nature and subject to changes in general economic conditions, including the construction industry, which constituted over 30% of Pac-Van’s revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012. Although the variety of Pac-Van’s products, the breadth of its customer base and the number of markets it serves throughout the United States limit its exposure to economic downturns, general economic downturns or localized downturns in markets where its operates could reduce demand for Pac-Van’s products, especially in the construction industry, and negatively impact our future revenues and results of operations. Pac-Van faces significant competition in the modular buildings and portable storage industries. Pac-Van also faces potentially significant competition from modular buildings companies who have portable storage product offerings, especially from several national competitors in the United States who have greater financial resources and pricing flexibility than Pac-Van does. If Pac-Van is unable to compete successfully, it could lose customers and our future revenues could decline. Although Pac-Van’s competition varies significantly by market, the modular buildings markets in which Pac-Van competes are dominated by two large participants and are highly competitive. In addition, Pac-Van competes with a number of large to mid-sized regional competitors, as well as many smaller, full and part-time operators in many local regions. The modular building industry is highly competitive, subject to stiff pricing competition and almost all of the competitors have portable storage product offerings. The primary modular national competitors with portable storage product offerings are less leveraged than Pac-Van, and have greater financial resources and pricing flexibility than Pac-Van does. If they focus on portable storage, Pac-Van could lose customers and our future revenues could decline. If Pac-Van is unable to compete successfully, it could lose customers and our future revenues could decline. Because Pac-Van has depended to a large extent on the success of its leasing operations, the failure of Pac-Van to effectively and quickly remarket lease units that are returned could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Historically, Pac-Van’s average monthly lease fleet utilization has averaged between 70% and 85%; with the typical lease term being for an average period of over twelve months. The high utilization rate and the length of the average lease have provided Pac-Van with a predictable revenue stream. However, if utilization rates decline or should a significant number of Pac-Van’s lease units be returned during any short period of time, Pac-Van would have to re-lease a large supply of units at similar rates to maintain historic revenues from these operations. Pac-Van’s failure to effectively maintain historical utilization rates or remarket a large influx of units returning from leases could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Sales of modular buildings, mobile offices and container product units constitute a significant portion of Pac-Van’s revenues and the failure to continue to sell units at historic rates could adversely affect our ability to grow Pac-Van’s lease fleet. Revenues from sales of modular buildings, mobile offices and container products have been used to fund increases in the size of our lease fleet. As a result, the failure to continue to sell a significant number of units may adversely affect our ability to increase the size of Pac-Van’s lease fleet or to otherwise take advantage of business and growth opportunities available to it. We may be brought into tort or environmental litigation or held responsible for cleanup of spills if the customer fails to perform, or an accident occurs in the use of our tank container products, which could materially adversely affect our business, future operating results or financial position. Our portable liquid tank containers are used by our customers to store non-hazardous and certain hazardous liquids on the customer’s site. Our customers are responsible for proper operation of our fleet equipment while on lease and returning a cleaned and undamaged container upon completion of use, but we cannot always assure that these responsibilities are fully met in all cases. In addition, if an accident were to occur involving our lease equipment or a spill of substances were to occur when in-transport or on-lease with our customer, a claim could be made against us as owner of the lease equipment. I-27 Table of Contents In the event of a spill or accident, we may be brought into a lawsuit or enforcement action by either our customer or a third party on numerous potential grounds, including that an inherent flaw in a container tank contributed to the accident or that the container tank had suffered some undiscovered harm from a previous customer’s prior use. In the event of a spill caused by our customers, we may be held responsible for cleanup under environmental laws and regulations concerning obligations of suppliers of rental products to effect remediation. In addition, applicable environmental laws and regulations may impose liability on us for conduct of third parties, or for actions that complied with applicable regulations when taken, regardless of negligence or fault. Substantial damage awards have also been made in certain jurisdictions against lessors of industrial equipment based upon claims of personal injury, property damage, and resource damage caused by the use of various products. While we try to take reasonable precautions that our lease equipment is in good and safe condition prior to lease and carry insurance to protect against certain risks of loss or accidents, liability could adversely impact our profitability. The portable liquid containment rental industry is highly competitive, and competitive pressures could impair or ability to increase market share and to rent, or sell, equipment at favorable prices. The portable liquid containment industry is highly competitive. We compete against national, regional and local companies, some of which are significantly larger than we are and both of which have greater financial and marketing resources than we have. Some of our competitors also have longer operating histories, lower cost basis of rental equipment, lower cost structures and more established relationships with equipment manufacturers than we have. In addition, certain of our competitors are more geographically diverse than we are and have greater name recognition among customers than we do. As a result, our competitors that have these advantages may be better able to attract customers. We believe that local relationships, equipment quality, service levels and fleet size are key competitive factors in the portable liquid containment industry. From time to time, we or our competitors may attempt to compete aggressively by lowering rental rates or prices. Competitive pressures could adversely affect our future revenues and operating results by depressing the rental rates. To the extent we lower lease rates or increase our fleet in order to retain or increase market share, our operating margins would be adversely impacted. In addition, we may not be able to match a larger competitor’s price reductions or fleet investment because of its greater financial resources, all of which could adversely impact our future operating results. Changes in regulatory, or governmental, oversight of hydraulic fracturing could materially adversely affect the demand for our portable liquid containment products. We believe that in recent years growing demand related to hydraulic fracturing has increased and we have made a conscientious decision to enter into this market. However, oil and gas exploration and extraction (including use of tanks for hydraulic fracturing of gas and oil shale) are subject to numerous local, state and federal regulations. The hydraulic fracturing method of extraction has come under scrutiny in several states and by the Federal government due to the potential adverse effects that hydraulic fracturing, and the liquids and chemicals used, may have on water quality and public health. In addition, the disposal of wastewater from the hydraulic fracturing process into injection wells may increase the rate of seismic activity near drill sites and could result in regulatory changes, delays or interruption of future activity. Changes in these regulations could limit, interrupt, or stop exploration and extraction activities, which would negatively impact the demand for our portable liquid containment products. Seasonality of the portable liquid containment industry may impact future quarterly results. Activity may decline in our second quarter month of December and our third quarter months of January and February. These months may have lower rental activity in parts of the country where inclement weather may delay, or suspend, a company’s project. The impact of these delays may be to decrease the number of frac tank containers on lease until companies are able to resume their projects when weather improves. These seasonal factors may impact our future quarterly results in each year’s second and third quarters. Significant increases in raw material costs could increase our operating costs significantly and harm our future results of operations. Pac-Van purchases raw materials, including metals, lumber, siding and roofing and other products, to construct and modify modular buildings and to modify containers to its customers’ requirements. Pac-Van also maintains a truck fleet to deliver units to and return units from customers. During periods of rising prices for raw materials, especially oil and fuel for delivery vehicles, and in particular when the prices increase rapidly or to levels significantly higher than normal, Pac-Van may incur significant increases in operating costs and may not be able to pass price increases through to customers in a timely manner, which could harm our future results of operations. I-28 Table of Contents Failure to retain key personnel could adversely affect Pac-Van’s operations and could impede our ability to execute our business plan and growth strategy. Pac-Van is managed largely by seven key senior managers. The continued success of Pac-Van will depend largely on the efforts and abilities of these senior managers. These officers and employees have an understanding of Pac-Van and its industry that cannot be readily duplicated. In addition, we do not have key-man insurance. The loss of any member of Pac-Van’s senior management team could impair our ability to execute our business plan and growth strategy, cause a loss of customers, reduce revenues and adversely affect employee morale. Failure by Pac-Van’s manufacturers to sell and deliver products to Pac-Van in timely fashion may harm Pac-Van’s reputation and our financial condition. Pac-Van currently purchases new modular buildings and components, mobile offices and container products directly from manufacturers. Although Pac-Van is not dependent on any one manufacturer and is able to purchase products from a variety of suppliers, the failure of one or more of its suppliers to timely manufacture and deliver storage containers to Pac-Van could adversely affect its operations. Pac-Van purchases new modular buildings and components, mobile offices and storage containers under purchase orders issued to various manufacturers, which the manufacturers may or may not accept or be able to fill. Pac-Van has no contracts with any supplier. If these suppliers do not timely fill Pac-Van’s purchase orders, or do not properly manufacture the ordered products, our reputation and financial condition also could be harmed. Some zoning laws restrict the use of Pac-Van’s storage units and therefore limit its ability to offer its products in all markets. Many of Pac-Van’s customers use Pac-Van’s storage units to store goods on their own properties. Local zoning laws in some of Pac-Van’s markets prohibit customers from maintaining mobile offices or storage containers on their properties or require that mobile offices or storage containers be located out of sight from the street. If local zoning laws in one or more of Pac-Van’s geographic markets were to ban or restrict its products from being stored on customers’ sites, Pac-Van’s business in that market could suffer. Developments in California may have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. We are headquartered and have operations in California, which like many other state and local jurisdictions is facing severe budgetary problems and deficits. Action that may be taken in response to these problems, such as increases in property taxes, changes to sales taxes, adoption of a proposed “Business Net Receipts Tax” or other governmental efforts to raise revenues could adversely impact our business and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. I-29 Table of Contents 