D. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all other information contained in this annual report, before making any investment decision. Any of these risks and uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, which could in turn affect the price of the Company’s shares and ADSs. Risks Relating to the Steel Industry A downturn in the global economy would cause a reduction in worldwide demand for steel and would have a material adverse effect on the steel industry and Ternium. Ternium’s activities and results are affected by international economic conditions, as well as by national and regional economic conditions in the markets where Ternium operates and/or sells its products. A downturn in the global economy would reduce demand for steel products. This would have a negative effect on Ternium’s business and results of operations. If global macroeconomic conditions deteriorate, the outlook for steel producers would be adversely affected. In particular, a recession or depression in the developed economies (such as the global downturn experienced in 2008 and 2009 and the recent European crisis), or slower growth or recessionary conditions in emerging economies that are substantial consumers of steel (such as China and India, as well as emerging Asian markets, the Middle East, Latin America and the Commonwealth of Independent States regions) would exact a heavy toll on the steel industry, and would depress demand for our products and adversely affect our business and results of operations. The current slowdown in the Chinese economy has had and may continue to have adverse effects on the steel industry, and, accordingly, may adversely affect our business and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents A protracted fall in steel prices would have a material adverse effect on the results of Ternium, as could price volatility. Steel prices are volatile and are sensitive to trends in cyclical industries, such as the construction, automotive, appliance and machinery industries, which are significant markets for Ternium’s products. For example, steel prices in the international markets, which had been rising fast during the first half of 2008, fell sharply beginning in the second half of 2008 as a result of collapsing demand and the resulting excess capacity in the industry. The fall in prices during this period adversely affected the results of steel producers generally, including Ternium, as a result of lower revenues and writedowns of finished steel products and raw material inventories. Historically, the length and nature of business cycles affecting the steel industry has been unpredictable. A downturn in steel prices would materially and adversely affect Ternium’s revenues and profitability. In addition, the steel industry is highly competitive with respect to price, product quality, customer service and technological advances, and competition has frequently limited the ability of steel producers to raise the price of finished products to recover higher raw material and energy costs. Moreover, in some cases, the governments of some countries are reluctant to accept price increases of products which are used as raw materials for the manufacture of other goods, as such increases could ultimately affect competitiveness in other industries or increase inflation. In some other cases, governments restrict the ability of companies to pass on to the domestic markets any increases in international prices. Accordingly, increases in the purchase costs of raw materials, energy and other inputs might not be recoverable through increased product prices. A sudden increase in exports from China could have a significant impact on international steel prices and adversely affect Ternium’s profitability. China is now the largest worldwide steel producing country, accounting for close to half of the worldwide steel production. Due to the size of the Chinese steel market, a significant slowdown or reduction in steel consumption in that market could cause a sizable increase in the volume of steel offered in the international steel markets, exerting a downward pressure on sales and margins of steel companies operating in other markets and regions, including Ternium. Excess capacity may hamper the steel industry’s ability to sustain adequate profitability. In addition to economic conditions and prices, the steel industry is affected by other factors such as worldwide production capacity and fluctuations in steel imports/exports and tariffs. Historically, the steel industry has suffered, especially on downturn cycles, from substantial over-capacity. Currently, as a result of the 2008 global downturn, the recent European crisis and the increase in steel industry production capacity in recent years, there are signs of excess capacity in all steel markets, which is impacting the profitability of the steel industry. Accordingly, it is possible that the industry’s excess capacity will result in an extended period of depressed margins and industry weakness. Sales may fall as a result of fluctuations in industry inventory levels. Inventory levels of steel products held by companies that purchase Ternium’s products can vary significantly from period to period. These fluctuations can temporarily affect the demand for Ternium’s products, as customers draw from existing inventory during periods of low investment in construction and the other industry sectors that purchase Ternium’s products and accumulate inventory during periods of high investment and, as a result, these companies may not purchase additional steel products or maintain their current purchasing volume. Accordingly, Ternium may not be able to increase or maintain its current levels of sales volumes or prices. Price fluctuations or shortages in the supply of raw materials, slabs and energy could adversely affect Ternium’s profitability. Like other manufacturers of steel-related products, Ternium’s operations require substantial amounts of raw materials, energy and other inputs from domestic and foreign suppliers. In particular, the Ternium companies consume large quantities of iron ore, scrap, ferroalloys, electricity, coal, natural gas, oxygen and other gases in operating their blast and electric arc furnaces. In addition, Ternium is a large consumer of slabs, which are used as inputs in the production process. The prices of these raw materials, slabs, energy and other inputs can be volatile. Also, the availability and price of a significant portion of such raw materials, slabs, energy and other inputs Ternium requires are subject to market conditions and government regulation affecting supply and demand. For example, shortages of natural gas in Argentina and the consequent supply restrictions imposed by the government could lead to higher costs of production and eventually to production cutbacks at Siderar’s facilities in Argentina. 9 Table of Contents Similarly, in Mexico, existing constraints in natural gas transportation capacity have led to increased imports of liquefied natural gas, which, from April 1, 2013, resulted in increased natural gas transportation costs and, thus, higher steel production costs. In the past, Ternium has usually been able to procure sufficient supplies of raw materials, slabs, energy and other inputs to meet its production needs; however, it could be unable to procure adequate supplies in the future. Any protracted interruption, discontinuation or other disruption of the supply of principal inputs to the Ternium companies (including as a result of strikes, lockouts or other problems) would result in lost sales and would have a material adverse effect on Ternium’s business and results of operations. For further information related to raw materials, energy and other inputs requirements, see Item 4. “Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Raw Materials, Slabs, Energy and Other Inputs.” The Ternium companies depend on a limited number of key suppliers. The Ternium companies depend on certain key suppliers for their requirements of some of their principal inputs, including Vale for iron ore and ArcelorMittal for slabs. In general, there is a trend in the industry towards consolidation among suppliers of iron ore and other raw materials. The Ternium companies have entered into long-term contracts for the supply of some (but not all) of their principal inputs and it is expected that they will maintain and, depending on the circumstances, renew these contracts. However, if any of the key suppliers fails to deliver or there is a failure to renew these contracts, the Ternium companies could face limited access to some raw materials, slabs, rolled steel products, energy or other inputs, or higher costs and delays resulting from the need to obtain their input requirements from other suppliers. Intense competition could cause Ternium to lose its share in certain markets and adversely affect its sales and revenues. The market for Ternium’s steel products is highly competitive, particularly with respect to price, quality and service. In both the global and regional markets, Ternium competes against other global and local producers of steel products, which in some cases have greater financial and operating resources. Competition from larger steel manufacturers could result in declining margins and reductions in sales volumes and revenues. Ternium’s larger competitors could use their resources against Ternium in a variety of ways, including by making additional acquisitions, implementing modernization programs, expanding their production capacity, investing more aggressively in product development, and displacing demand for Ternium’s products in certain markets. To the extent that these producers become more efficient, Ternium could confront stronger competition and could fail to preserve its current share of the relevant geographic or product markets. In addition, there has been a trend in recent years toward steel industry consolidation among Ternium’s competitors, and current smaller competitors in the steel market could become larger competitors in the future. For example, in June 2006, Mittal Steel and Arcelor merged to create the world’s largest steel company, ArcelorMittal, and in October 2012 Nippon Steel Corporation and Sumitomo Metal Industries merged to form Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal Corporation, or Nippon Steel & Sumitomo, the world’s second largest steel company. Regional players in Ternium’s markets have also experienced consolidation through acquisitions. For further information, see Item 4. “Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Competition.” Moreover, competition from alternative materials (including aluminum, wood, concrete, plastic and ceramics) could adversely affect the demand for, and consequently the market prices of, certain steel products and, accordingly, could affect Ternium’s sales volumes and revenues. Competition in the global and regional markets could also be affected by antidumping and countervailing duties imposed on some producers in major steel markets and by the removal of barriers to imported products in those countries where the Ternium companies direct their sales. For further information, see Item 4. “Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulations—Trade regulations.” 10 Table of Contents Risks Relating to our Business If Ternium does not successfully implement its business strategy, its opportunities for growth and its competitive position could be adversely affected. Ternium plans to continue implementing its business strategy of enhancing its position as a competitive steel producer, focusing on higher margin value-added products, pursuing strategic growth opportunities, implementing Ternium’s best practices in acquired and new businesses, providing services to a wider range of customers in the local and export markets, and improving utilization levels of our plants, increasing efficiency and further reducing production costs. Any of these components or Ternium’s overall business strategy could be delayed or abandoned or could cost more than anticipated, any of which could impact its competitive position and reduce its revenue and profitability. For example, Ternium could fail to develop its projects and/or to make acquisitions to increase its steel production capacity, or may lose market share in its regional markets. Even if Ternium successfully implements its business strategy, it may not yield the desired goals. Future acquisitions or other significant investments could have an adverse impact on Ternium’s operations or profits, and Ternium may not realize the benefits it expects from these business decisions. A key element of Ternium’s business strategy is to identify and pursue growth-enhancing opportunities, and as part of that strategy we regularly consider acquisitions, greenfield and brownfield projects and other significant investments. However, any growth project will depend upon market and financing conditions. We must necessarily base any assessment of potential acquisitions or other investments on assumptions with respect to operations, profitability and other matters that may subsequently prove to be incorrect. Furthermore, we may fail to find suitable acquisition targets or fail to consummate our acquisitions under favorable conditions. In the past, Ternium acquired interests in various companies, including Hylsamex, one of the main steel producers in Mexico; Grupo Imsa, a leading steel processor with operations in Mexico, the United States and Guatemala; and Ferrasa, a Colombian steel producer and processor; formed, together with Nippon Steel (currently, Nippon Steel & Sumitomo), Tenigal for the manufacturing and sale of hot-dip galvanized and galvannealed steel sheets to serve the Mexican automobile market; and acquired a participation in the control group of Usiminas, the largest flat steel producer in Brazil. Our acquisitions or other investments may not perform in accordance with our expectations and could have an adverse impact on our operations and profits. Furthermore, we may be unable to successfully integrate any acquired businesses into our operations, realize expected synergies or accomplish the business objectives that were foreseen at the time of deciding any such investment. Moreover, we may also acquire, as part of future acquisitions, assets unrelated to our business, and we may not be able to integrate them or sell them under favorable terms and conditions. These risks, and the fact that integration of any acquired businesses will require a significant amount of time and resources of Ternium’s management and employees, could have an adverse impact on Ternium’s ongoing business and could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Ternium may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if it must reassess its goodwill, other amortizable intangible assets, or investments in non-consolidated companies. In accordance with IFRS, management must test for impairment all of Ternium’s assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Assets subject to testing include goodwill, intangible assets and investments in non-consolidated companies. In addition, management must test for impairment goodwill at least once a year whether or not there are indicators of impairment. IFRS requires us to recognize a non-cash charge in an amount equal to any impairment. We recorded significant goodwill in connection with the acquisition of our Mexican subsidiaries, as well as an investment in non-consolidated companies in connection with our acquisition of a participation in Usiminas. We performed an impairment test over the investment in Usiminas as of December 31, 2012, and as described further below, wrote it down by USD275.3 million. As of December 31, 2013, goodwill in connection with our Mexican subsidiaries amounted to USD662.3 million and our investment in non-consolidated companies in connection with our investment in Usiminas amounted to USD1.4 billion. If Ternium’s management determines in the future that the goodwill from our acquisitions or our investments in non-consolidated companies are impaired, Ternium will be required to recognize a non-cash charge against earnings, which could materially adversely affect Ternium’s results of operations or net worth. 11 Table of Contents If Usiminas is not able to successfully implement its business strategy, or the business conditions in Brazil or in the global steel and mining industries were to be worse than we expected, the Company may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in the form of an impairment to its investment in Usiminas, which could have a material adverse effect on Ternium’s results, financial conditions or net worth. On January 16, 2012, Ternium, together with its subsidiary Siderar, acquired a participation in the control group of Usiminas, the largest flat steel producer in Brazil, for a total consideration of USD2.2 billion. Ternium owns approximately 22.7% of Usiminas’ ordinary shares, or approximately 11.3% of Usiminas’ issued and outstanding capital. For further information on the Usiminas transaction, see note 3 to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. Usiminas has improved its performance and results of operations in 2013 and has implemented certain changes in its strategy and business practices. However, we cannot assure you that these improvements or changes will remain successful, or that further changes will not be required. Under the shareholders’ agreement governing the rights of the members of Usiminas’ control group, Ternium cannot, without the consensus of one or more of the other shareholder groups party to that agreement, cause the control group to adopt any decision at Usiminas’ shareholders’ meetings or cause the directors nominated by the control group to adopt any decision at Usiminas’ board or directors’ meetings (see Item 4. “Information on the Company—C. Organizational Structure—Other Investments—Usiminas”). Accordingly, Ternium cannot, without the consensus of such other shareholder group or groups, implement any change to Usiminas’ business strategy. In addition, the business conditions in Brazil or the global steel and mining industries could turn out to be worse than those we expected when assessing the value of our investment in Usiminas, which could in turn modify our expectations for such investment’s financial return. For example, as a result of expectations of a weaker industrial environment in Brazil (where industrial production and consequently steel demand suffered downward adjustments during 2012) and a higher degree of uncertainty regarding future prices of iron ore (which led to a reduction in Ternium’s forecast of long term iron ore prices that affected cash flow expectations), we performed an impairment test over our investment in Usiminas and subsequently wrote down the investment by USD275.3 million. This charge was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2012. Any further write-down to Ternium’s investment in Usiminas could have a material adverse effect on Ternium’s results of operations or net worth. Labor disputes at Ternium’s operating subsidiaries could result in work stoppages and disruptions to Ternium’s operations. A substantial majority of Ternium’s employees at its manufacturing subsidiaries are represented by labor unions and are covered by collective bargaining or similar agreements, which are subject to periodic renegotiation. Strikes or work stoppages could occur prior to or during the negotiations leading to new collective bargaining agreements, during wage and benefits negotiations or, occasionally, during other periods for other reasons. Ternium could also suffer plant stoppages or strikes if it were to implement cost reduction plans. From time to time, Ternium takes measures in order to become more competitive in Mexico, Argentina and Colombia; none of the measures taken in the past have resulted in significant labor unrest. However, we cannot assure that this situation will remain stable or that future measures will not result in labor actions against us. Any future stoppage, strike, disruption of operations or new collective bargaining agreements could result in lost sales and could increase Ternium’s costs, thereby affecting our results of operations. For more information on labor relations and collective bargaining agreements, see Item 6. “Directors, Senior Management and Employees—D. Employees.” Ternium’s related party transactions with companies controlled by San Faustin may not always be on terms as favorable as those that could be obtained from unaffiliated third parties. Some of Ternium’s sales and purchases are made to and from other companies controlled by San Faustin. These sales and purchases are primarily made in the ordinary course of business, and we believe that they are made on terms no less favorable than those we could obtain from unaffiliated third parties. Ternium will continue to engage in related party transactions in the future, and these transactions may not be on terms as favorable as those that could be obtained from unaffiliated third parties. For information concerning the principal transactions between Ternium and related parties see Item 7. “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions.” Changes in exchange rates or any limitation in the Ternium companies’ ability to hedge against exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect Ternium’s business and results. The operations of the Ternium companies expose them to the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and changes in foreign exchange regulations. A significant portion of Ternium’s sales are carried out in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As a result of this foreign currency exposure, exchange rate fluctuations impact the Ternium companies’ results and net worth as reported in their income statements and statements of financial position in the form of both translation risk and transaction risk. In the ordinary course of business, the Ternium companies enter from time to time into exchange rate derivatives agreements to manage their exposure to exchange rate changes. Future regulatory or financial restrictions in the countries where Ternium operates may affect its ability to mitigate its exposure to exchange rate fluctuations, and thus cause an adverse impact on Ternium’s results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. For information concerning the effect of the changes in exchange rates on Ternium’s business and results, see Item 5. “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Overview.” 12 Table of Contents Risks Relating to our Mining Activities Mining is one of Ternium’s two reporting segments, and iron ore is one of the principal raw materials used by Ternium’s operating subsidiaries in its steelmaking segment. Ternium has equity interests in two iron ore mining companies in Mexico: a 100% interest in Las Encinas and a 50% interest in Consorcio Peña Colorada. In addition, Ternium may seek to expand its mining activities in the future. Our present and future mining activities are or would be subject to particular risks, as follows: Required governmental concessions and authorizations could be subject to changes or termination, and use and occupancy rights could be difficult to obtain or maintain, all of which could adversely affect our mining activities, operating costs and capital expenditures. Our mining activities are subject to specific regulations and depend on concessions and authorizations granted by governmental authorities. Amendments to applicable laws and regulations in Mexico may change the terms pursuant to which we are required to pursue our exploration, mining and ore processing activities. For example, on January 1, 2014 a comprehensive tax reform became effective in Mexico, including the enactment of new taxes and royalties over mining activities, which in the case of Ternium’s iron ore mining subsidiaries resulted in a 7.5% royalty on mining profits, calculated on a special tax basis. Additional new changes to applicable laws and regulations in Mexico may result in new taxes or royalties or require modifications to the processes and technologies used in our mining activities, leading to unexpected capital expenditures and higher costs. If the relevant government authority determines that we are not in compliance with our obligations as concessionaires, it may terminate our concession. Furthermore, in order to explore or exploit mines, it is necessary to obtain the right of occupancy and use of the land where the mines are situated. Even though government regulations frequently establish provisions intended to facilitate the establishment of such rights, in some cases it may be difficult to reach and maintain agreements with the landowners or such agreements may be excessively onerous. If we are unable to establish use and occupancy rights on acceptable terms, our mining activities may be compromised. Our reserve estimates may differ materially from mineral quantities that we may be able to actually recover, or our estimates of mine life may prove inaccurate; and market price fluctuations and changes in operating and capital costs may render certain ore reserves uneconomical to mine in the future or cause us to revise our reserve estimates. Ternium’s reserves are estimated quantities of ore that it has determined can be economically mined and processed under present and anticipated conditions to extract their mineral content. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of reserves and in projecting potential future rates of mineral production, including factors beyond our control. Reserve calculations involve estimating deposits of minerals that cannot be measured in an exact manner, and the accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Reserve estimates also depend on assumptions relating to the economic viability of extraction, which are established through the application of a life of mine plan for each operation or project providing a positive net present value on a forward-looking basis, using forecasts of operating and capital costs based on historical performance, with forward adjustments based on planned process improvements, changes in production volumes and in fixed and variable proportions of costs, and forecasted fluctuations in costs of raw material, supplies, energy and wages. These forecasts and projections involve assumptions and estimations that, although we believe are reasonable at the time of estimating our reserves, may change in the future and may fail to anticipate geological or other environmental factors or events that could make it difficult or unprofitable to mine certain ore deposits. In addition, our reserve estimates are of in-place material after adjustments for mining depletion and mining losses and recoveries, with no adjustments made for metal losses due to processing. As a result, no assurance can be given that the indicated amount of ore will be recovered from our reserves, or that it will be recovered at the anticipated rates, or that extracted ore will be converted into saleable production over the mine life at levels consistent with our reserve estimates. Reserve estimates may vary from those included in this annual report, and results of mining and production subsequent to the date of an estimate may lead to future revisions of estimates. Estimates of mine life may require revisions based on actual productions figures, changes in reserve estimates and other factors. For example, fluctuations in the market prices of minerals, reduced recovery rates or increased operating and capital costs due to inflation, exchange rates, mining duties or other factors could affect our mine life projections. To the extent that market price fluctuations or changes in our operating and capital costs increase our costs to explore, locate, extract and process iron ore, we may be required to revise our reserve estimates if certain ore reserves become uneconomical to mine in the future. Our exploration activities are subject to uncertainties as to the results of such exploration; even if the exploration activities lead to the discovery of ore deposits, the effective exploitation of such deposits remains subject to several risks. Exploration activities are highly speculative, involve substantial risks and may be unproductive. We may incur substantial costs for exploration which do not yield the expected results. The failure to find sufficient and adequate reserves could adversely affect our business. In addition, even if ore deposits are discovered, our ability to pursue exploitation activities may be delayed for a long time during which market conditions may vary. 13 Table of Contents Significant resources and time need to be invested in order to establish ore resources through exploration, define the appropriate processes that shall be undertaken, obtain environmental licenses, concessions and other permits, build the necessary facilities and infrastructure for greenfield projects and obtain the ore or extract the metals from the ore. If a project does not turn out to be economically feasible by the time we are able to exploit it, we may incur substantial write-offs. Our expected costs for exploration or exploitation activities may vary significantly and affect our expected results. We may be subject to increased costs or delays relating to the acquisition of adequate equipment for the exploration and exploitation of ore deposits. We may also fail to obtain any necessary permits, or experience significant delays in connection with the issuance of such permits. Moreover, we may face increasing costs as iron ore reserves or their ferrous content diminish, the pits and operational sections of the mine become deeper and more distant from the surface, or iron ore deposits within the pit area become more difficult to locate and extract. Adverse mining conditions and other situations related to the operation of the mine, whether permanent or temporary, may lead to a significant increase in our costs and/or affect our ability to produce the expected quantities of mineral. If this occurs, our expected results of operations may also be negatively affected. Difficulties in the relationships with local communities may adversely affect our mining activities and results of operation. Communities living or owning land near areas where we operate may take actions to oppose and interfere with our mining activities. Although we make significant efforts to maintain good relationships with such communities, actions taken by them (or by interest groups within those communities) may hamper our ability to conduct our mining activities as planned, request the government to revoke or cancel our concessions or environmental or other permits, prevent us from fulfilling agreements reached with the government in connection with our mining activities, or significantly increase the cost of exploring and/or exploiting the mines, thereby adversely affecting our business and results of operations. For example, in Aquila, Mexico, in 2011, 2012 and 2013, members of certain native communities blocked roads demanding higher compensation for the use of land for mining activities (and these actions prevented Ternium from transporting iron ore from the mines to the pelletizing facilities for periods of time that in some occasions ultimately resulted in a technical stoppage of the mining activities in Aquila). In 2013, members of the Aquila native community initiated legal actions seeking the revocation of our environmental permit, which is essential to our mining activity; management believes, however, that it is not likely that these actions would succeed. Risks Relating to the Structure of the Company As a holding company, the Company’s ability to pay cash dividends depends on the results of operations and financial condition of its subsidiaries and could be restricted by legal, contractual or other limitations. The Company conducts all its operations through subsidiaries. Dividends or other intercompany transfers of funds from those subsidiaries are the Company’s primary source of funds to pay its expenses, debt service and dividends and to repurchase shares or ADSs. The Company does not and will not conduct operations at the holding company level. The ability of the Company’s subsidiaries to pay dividends and make other payments to the Company will depend on their results of operations and financial condition and could be restricted by, among other things, applicable corporate and other laws and regulations, including those imposing foreign exchange controls or restrictions on the repatriation of capital or the making of dividend payments, and agreements and commitments of such subsidiaries. If earnings and cash flows of the Company’s operating subsidiaries are substantially reduced, the Company may not be in a position to meet its operational needs or to pay dividends. In addition, the Company’s ability to pay dividends is subject to legal and other requirements and restrictions in effect at the holding company level. For example, the Company may only pay dividends out of net profits, retained earnings and distributable reserves and premiums, each as defined and calculated in accordance with Luxembourg laws and regulations. The Company’s controlling shareholder may be able to take actions that do not reflect the will or best interests of other shareholders. As of March 31, 2014, San Faustin beneficially owned 62.02% of our outstanding voting shares and Tenaris, which is also controlled by San Faustin, also held 11.46% of our outstanding voting shares. Rocca & Partners Stichting Administratiekantoor Aandelen San Faustin, or RP STAK, controls a significant portion of the voting power of San Faustin and has the ability to influence matters affecting, or submitted to a vote of, the shareholders of San Faustin. As a result, RP STAK is indirectly able to elect a substantial majority of the members of the Company’s board of directors and has the power to determine the outcome of most actions requiring shareholder approval, including, subject to the requirements of Luxembourg law, the payment of dividends. The decisions of the controlling shareholder may not reflect the will or best interests of other shareholders. For example, the Company’s articles of association permit the board of directors to waive, limit or suppress preemptive rights in certain cases. Accordingly, our controlling shareholder may cause our board of directors to approve an issuance of shares for consideration without preemptive rights, thereby diluting the minority interest in the Company. See “—Risk Factors—Risks Relating to our ADSs—Holders of our shares and ADSs in the United States may not be able to exercise preemptive rights in certain cases” and Item 7. “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—A. Major Shareholders.” 14 Table of Contents Non-controlling interests in our subsidiaries could delay or impede our ability to complete our strategy. We do not own one hundred percent of the interests in certain of our subsidiaries. As of March 31, 2014, approximately 26.03% of Siderar is held by Administración Nacional de la Seguridad Social, or ANSeS, Argentina’s governmental social security agency, approximately 11.18% is publicly held, and approximately 1.85% is held by certain Siderar employees. ANSeS became a significant shareholder of Siderar in the last quarter of 2008 as a result of the nationalization of Argentina’s private pension system, which caused assets under administration of Argentina’s private pension funds—including significant interests in publicly traded companies, such as Siderar, held by such funds—to be transferred to ANSeS. Ternium holds a 54% ownership interest in each of Ferrasa and Ferrasa Panama, and the former controlling shareholders hold the remaining 46% interest in each of Ferrasa and Ferrasa Panama. Ternium holds a 51% ownership interest in Tenigal, and Nippon Steel & Sumitomo holds the remaining 49%. The existence of non-controlling interests in these subsidiaries could prevent Ternium from taking actions that, while beneficial to Ternium, might not be beneficial to each relevant subsidiary, considered separately. As a result, we could be delayed or impeded in the full implementation of our strategy or the maximization of Ternium’s competitive strengths. Risks Relating to the Countries in Which We Operate Negative economic, political and regulatory developments in certain markets where Ternium has a significant portion of its operations and assets could hurt Ternium’s shipment volumes or prices, increase its costs or disrupt its manufacturing operations, thereby adversely affecting its results of operations and financial condition. The results of Ternium’s operations are subject to the risks of doing business in emerging markets, principally in Mexico and Argentina and to a lesser extent in Colombia, and have been, and could in the future be, affected from time to time to varying degrees by economic, political, social and regulatory developments, such as nationalization, expropriation or forced divestiture of assets; restrictions on production, domestic sales, imports and exports; interruptions to essential energy inputs; restrictions on the exchange or transfer of currency, repatriation of capital, or payment of dividends, debt principal or interest, or other contractual obligations; inflation; devaluation; war or other international conflicts; civil unrest and local security concerns that threaten the safe operation of our facilities; direct and indirect price controls; tax increases, changes (including retroactive) in the enforcement or interpretation of tax laws and other retroactive tax claims or challenges; changes in laws or regulations; cancellation of contract rights; and delays or denial of governmental approvals. Both the likelihood of such occurrences and their overall effect upon Ternium vary greatly from country to country and are not predictable. Realization of these risks could have an adverse impact on the results of operations and financial condition of Ternium’s subsidiaries located in the affected country and, depending on their materiality, on the results of operations and financial condition of Ternium as a whole. Mexico Ternium has significant manufacturing operations and assets located in Mexico and a majority of its sales are made to customers in this country. The majority of Ternium’s revenues from its Mexican operations, therefore, are related to market conditions in Mexico and to changes in its economic activity. Ternium’s business could be materially and adversely affected by economic, political and regulatory developments in Mexico. Economic and social conditions and government policies in Mexico could negatively impact Ternium’s business and results of operations. In the past, Mexico has experienced several periods of slow or negative economic growth, high inflation, high interest rates, currency devaluation and other economic problems. Furthermore, the Mexican national economy tends to reflect changes in the economic environment in the United States. If problems such as deterioration in Mexico’s economic conditions reemerge, or social instability, political unrest, reduction in government spending or other adverse social developments reemerge in the future, they could lead to continued volatility in the foreign exchange and financial markets, and, depending on their severity and duration, could adversely affect the business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity of Ternium. Moreover, adverse economic conditions in Mexico could result in, among other things, higher interest rates accompanied by reduced opportunities for refunding or refinancing, reduced domestic consumption of Ternium’s products, decreased operating results and delays in the completion of ongoing and future capital expenditures. 15 Table of Contents Regulatory changes in Mexico could adversely impact our results of operations and net results. Mexico is experiencing a period of economic reform. In December 2012, new labor regulations became effective in Mexico. The most relevant aspects of those regulations were a reassessment of the status of third-party workers, changes in rest periods, and an increase in the amounts of fines and penalties applicable for violations of the regulations. In addition, in 2014 a comprehensive tax reform became effective in Mexico. Among other things, the reform maintained the corporate income tax at 30% (eliminating the scheduled reduction to 29% in 2014 and 28% in 2015); repealed the tax consolidation regime, limiting Ternium’s ability to perform fiscal consolidation among its Mexican subsidiaries beginning as of January 1, 2014; introduced a 10% withholding tax on dividend distributions; and created a new royalty over mining activities, which in the case of Ternium’s iron ore mining subsidiaries resulted in a 7.5% royalty on mining profits calculated on a special tax basis. These measures resulted in a deferred tax loss of USD22.3 million in Ternium’s 2013 results. Any additional new changes to Mexican regulations could adversely impact our results of operations and net results. Violence and crime in Mexico could negatively impact Ternium’s business and operations. In recent years there have been high incidences of violence and crime related to drug trafficking in Mexico, especially in the Monterrey areas, where our main facilities are located, and in Michoacán, where some of our mining facilities are located. Security issues could affect our day-to-day operations and could also result in an economic slowdown, reducing domestic demand for our products and thereby having an adverse effect on our business. A deterioration of the security situation could result in significant obstacles or additional costs to the implementation of our growth plans in Mexico, including delays in the completion of capital expenditures. Argentina Approximately 14% of Ternium’s consolidated net assets are located in Argentina and a significant portion of its sales are made in Argentina through our subsidiary, Siderar. Most of Siderar’s sales revenue is affected by market conditions in Argentina and changes in Argentina’s gross domestic product, or GDP, and per capita disposable income. Accordingly, Siderar’s business could be materially and adversely affected by economic, political, social, fiscal and regulatory developments in Argentina. For more information on Ternium’s sales in Argentina, see Item 4. “Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Sales—Southern Region.” Economic and political instability in Argentina, which resulted in a severe recession in 2002, may occur in the future, thereby adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results. Our business and results of operations in Argentina have closely followed macroeconomic conditions. Domestic sales of Siderar were severely affected by Argentina’s recession during 2001 and 2002. While the domestic economic recovery over the 2003 – 2008 period led to a recovery of steel shipments to the Argentine domestic market, the downturn in the global economy in the last quarter of 2008 reached the Argentine economy and had a significant adverse impact on our shipments to the Argentine domestic market until their recovery beginning in the second quarter of 2009. More recently, a slowdown in economic activity in Argentina in 2012 resulted in a year-over-year decrease in steel shipments. The Argentine economy is currently facing significant challenges. Inflation is high, as further discussed below, leading to increasing labor unrest. In addition, the economy has been affected by supply constraints and capital investment in general has declined significantly due to, among other factors, political, economic and financial uncertainties and government actions, including price and foreign exchange controls, import restrictions, export taxes, an increased level of government intervention in, or limitations to, the conduct of business in the private sector, and other measures affecting investor confidence. For example, in February 2011, the Argentine government imposed controls on the price of steel products sold in Argentina, including products sold by Siderar, and required that sales of steel products be invoiced in Argentine pesos. Although Ternium believes that price controls are illegal under Argentine law and these measures were ultimately revoked, other price controls or similar measures could be imposed in the future. Inflation and declining capital investment may affect growth and, accordingly, cause demand for our local subsidiary’s products in the domestic market to drop. Economic conditions in Argentina have deteriorated rapidly in the past and may deteriorate rapidly in the future. The Argentine economy may not continue to grow and economic instability may increase. Our business and results of operations in Argentina could be adversely affected by rapidly changing economic conditions in Argentina or by the Argentine government’s policy response to such conditions. 16 Table of Contents Inflation may undermine economic growth in Argentina and impact our costs, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations and financial position. In the past, inflation has undermined the Argentine economy and the government’s ability to stimulate economic growth. Beginning in 2004, inflation indicators began showing significant year-over-year increases, signaling a trend characteristic of an inflationary economy. The pace of inflation has increased rapidly and significantly over the last few years. Since 2007 Argentina’s official inflation data published by the Instituto Nacional de Estadística y Censos, or INDEC, Argentina’s national statistics institute, have been subject to changes in calculation; following the implementation of such changes, the official inflation figures have been consistently disputed by independent economists. For example, the annual inflation rates based on consumer data published by INDEC (IPC GBA) during the period 2008-2013 were in all cases below 11%, while private estimates, on average, refer to annual rates of inflation significantly higher than those published by INDEC. Beginning in 2014, INDEC stopped issuing the IPC GBA index and replaced it in February 2014 with a new national consumer price index using a new methodology. Under the new index, the January, February and March 2014 consumer price index rose 3.7%, 3.4% and 2.6%, respectively. Sustained high inflation in Argentina could negatively impact our results of operations and financial position as peso-denominated costs (mainly labor-related costs) at Siderar increase, thereby affecting its cost-competitiveness and deteriorating its margins. In addition, a high inflation economy could undermine Argentina’s foreign competitiveness in international markets and negatively affect the economy’s activity and employment levels. Argentine inflation rate volatility makes it impossible to estimate with reasonable certainty the extent to which activity levels and results of operations of Siderar could be affected by inflation in the future. The Argentine government has increased taxes on Argentine companies and could further increase the fiscal burden in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations, net results and financial condition. Since 1992, the Argentine government has not permitted the application of an inflation adjustment on the value of fixed assets for tax purposes. As a result of the substantial devaluation of the Argentine peso against the U.S. dollar and significant inflation over the last decade, the amounts that the Argentine tax authorities permit Siderar to deduct as depreciation for its past investments in plant, property and equipment have been substantially reduced in real terms, thus creating artificial gains for tax purposes which result in effective tax rates which are higher than statutory tax rates. In addition, provincial taxes on Siderar’s sales have increased over the last few years. More recently, in October 2013 the Argentine government enacted a new 10% withholding tax on dividend distributions in Argentina. This measure resulted in a deferred tax loss of USD24.0 million in Ternium’s 2013 results. If the Argentine government continues to increase the tax burden on Siderar’s operations, Ternium’s results of operations, net results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Argentine exchange controls could prevent Ternium from paying dividends or other amounts from cash generated by Siderar’s operations. In the past, the Argentine government and the Argentine Central Bank introduced several rules and regulations to reduce volatility in the ARS/USD exchange rate, and implemented formal and informal restrictions on capital inflows into Argentina and capital outflows from Argentina. In addition, Siderar is currently required to repatriate U.S. dollars collected in connection with exports from Argentina (including U.S. dollars obtained through advance payment and pre-financing facilities) into Argentina and convert them into Argentine pesos at the relevant exchange rate applicable on the date of repatriation. Since the last quarter of 2011, the Argentine government tightened its controls on transactions that would represent capital outflows from Argentina, prohibiting the purchase of foreign currency for saving purposes and limiting formally or informally the ability of Argentine companies to transfer funds (including in connection with the purchase of goods or services, or the payment of interest, dividends or royalties) outside of Argentina. The existing controls, and any additional restrictions of this kind that may be imposed in the future, could expose Ternium to the risk of losses arising from fluctuations in the exchange rate or affect Ternium’s ability to finance its investments and operations in Argentina or impair Ternium’s ability to convert and transfer outside Argentina funds generated by Siderar, for example, to fund the payment of dividends or to undertake investments and other activities that require offshore payments. For additional information on Argentina’s current exchange controls and restrictions, see Item 10. “Additional Information—D. Exchange Controls.” Restrictions on the imports of key steelmaking inputs for Siderar’s operations in Argentina could adversely affect Siderar’s production and, as a result, growth projects and negatively impact Ternium’s results of operations. Some of Siderar’s key steelmaking inputs, including iron ore and coking coal, are imported into Argentina. The Argentine government has implemented significant import restrictions, which may affect the availability of key steelmaking inputs for our operations in Argentina. All payments on imports of goods and services must be approved by the Argentine federal tax authority and other authorities, such as the Secretary of Commerce. The authorization criteria for such imports have not been determined in the applicable regulations. Such import restrictions could delay imports and, if sustained, adversely affect our business, operations and growth projects in Argentina. 17 Table of Contents In addition, they could affect Siderar’s exports from Argentina, considering that foreign countries may adopt and implement counter-measures. For additional information on current Argentina’s current exchange controls and restrictions, see Item 10. “Additional Information—D. Exchange Controls.” Restrictions or an increase of the costs on the supply of energy to Siderar’s operations in Argentina could curtail Siderar’s production and negatively impact Ternium’s results of operations. In recent years, there has been an insufficient level of investment in natural gas and electricity supply and transport capacity in Argentina, coupled with a substantial increase in demand for natural gas and electricity. This in turn resulted in shortages of natural gas and electricity to residential and industrial users including Siderar during periods of high demand. Such shortages may, in the future, result in significant price increases for gas and electricity. Siderar’s operations experienced constraints in their natural gas supply requirements and interruptions in their electricity supply at peak hours on many occasions. If demand for natural gas and electricity increases and a matching increase in natural gas and electricity supply and transport capacity fails to materialize on a timely basis, Siderar’s production in Argentina (or that of its main customers and suppliers) could be curtailed, and Siderar’s sales and revenues could decline. In addition, the Argentine government announced a cut off in the government’s subsidies to the price of the natural gas and electricity. An increase in Siderar’s energy costs may adversely affect Siderar’s results of operations. See “—Risks Relating to the Steel Industry—Price fluctuations or shortages in the supply of raw materials, slabs, energy and other inputs could adversely affect Ternium’s profitability” above. Colombia Ternium has manufacturing operations and assets located in Colombia and some of its sales are made in Colombia. The majority of Ternium’s revenues from its Colombian operations, therefore, are affected by market conditions in Colombia and to changes in Colombia’s GDP, and per capita disposable income. In addition, Colombia has experienced internal security issues and political tensions with some of its neighboring countries, in particular Venezuela and Ecuador, that have had or could have a negative effect on the Colombian economy. Accordingly, Ternium’s business could be adversely affected by economic, political and regulatory developments in Colombia. Certain Regulatory Risks and Litigation Risks International trade actions or regulations and trade-related legal proceedings could adversely affect Ternium’s sales, revenues and overall business. International trade-related legal actions and restrictions pose a constant risk for Ternium’s international operations and sales throughout the world. We are a significant purchaser of slabs for our operations in Mexico (which we buy from various suppliers in Mexico and overseas) and a significant purchaser of steel products for our operations in Colombia (which we buy from our subsidiaries overseas and from various suppliers in Colombia and overseas). Imports of slabs into Mexico and steel products in Colombia are, subject to certain conditions, imported under zero- or low-import duties. In the future, we may not be able to make such imports under the zero- or low-duty regime, or the Mexican or Colombian government may increase the applicable duties or impose restrictions in the quantities allowed to be imported. Increased trade liberalization has reduced certain of Ternium’s imported input costs and increased Ternium’s access to many foreign markets. However, greater trade liberalization in its domestic markets is increasing competition for Ternium in such markets. In recent years, as a consequence of the global downturn, the number of antidumping and countervailing actions limiting trade has increased substantially. Accordingly, producers from certain countries find themselves excluded from certain markets and in need to find alternatives for their products. As a result, Ternium’s domestic market share could be eroded in the face of foreign imports and Ternium’s increased exports to foreign markets where import barriers have been reduced may not completely offset domestic market share losses resulting from increased foreign competition. Countries can impose restrictive import duties and other restrictions on imports under various national trade laws. The timing and nature of the imposition of trade-related restrictions potentially affecting Ternium’s exports are unpredictable. Trade restrictions on Ternium’s exports could adversely affect Ternium’s ability to sell products abroad and, as a result, Ternium’s profit margins, financial condition and overall business could suffer. One significant source of trade restrictions results from countries’ imposition of so-called “antidumping” and “countervailing” duties, as well as “safeguard measures.” These duties can severely limit or altogether impede an exporter’s ability to export to relevant markets. In several of Ternium’s export destinations, such as the United States or Europe, safeguard duties and other protective measures have been imposed against a broad array of steel imports in certain periods of excess global production capacity, as is currently the case. Furthermore, certain domestic producers have filed antidumping and/or countervailing duty actions against particular steel imports. Some of these actions have led to restrictions on Ternium’s exports of certain types of steel products to certain steel markets. As domestic producers’ filing of such actions is largely unpredictable, additional antidumping, countervailing duty or other such import restrictions could be imposed in the future, limiting Ternium’s export sales to and potential growth in those markets. See Item 4. “Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulations—Trade regulations.” 18 Table of Contents The cost of complying with environmental regulations and potential environmental and product liabilities may increase our operating costs and negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our steelmaking and mining activities are subject to a wide range of local, provincial and national laws, regulations, permit requirements and decrees relating to the protection of human health and the environment, including laws and regulations relating to hazardous materials and radioactive materials and environmental protection governing air emissions, water discharges and waste management. Laws and regulations protecting the environment have become increasingly complex and more stringent and expensive to implement in recent years. International environmental requirements may vary. Environmental laws and regulations may, in some cases, impose strict liability rendering a person liable for damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety without regard to negligence or fault. Some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. These laws and regulations may expose us to liability for the conduct of, or conditions caused by others or for acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time they were performed. Compliance with applicable requirements and the adoption of new requirements could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated statement of financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The ultimate impact of complying with environmental laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable since regulations under some of these laws have not yet been promulgated or are undergoing revision. The expenditures necessary to remain in compliance with these laws and regulations, including site or other remediation costs, or costs incurred from potential environmental liabilities, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and profitability. While we incur and will continue to incur expenditures to comply with applicable laws and regulations, there always remains a risk that environmental incidents or accidents may occur that may negatively affect our reputation or our operations. Some of the activities for which Ternium supplies products, such as canning for consumption, construction and the automotive industry are subject to inherent risks that could result in death, personal injury, property damage or environmental pollution, and subject us to potential product liability risks that could extend to being held liable for the damages produced by such products. Furthermore, Ternium’s products are also sold to, and used in, certain safety-critical appliances. Actual or claimed defects in our products may give rise to claims against us for losses suffered by our customers and expose us to claims for damages. The insurance we maintain may not be adequate or available to protect us in the event of a claim, its coverage may be limited, canceled or otherwise terminated, or the amount of our insurance may be less than the related impact on enterprise value after a loss. Risks Relating to our ADSs The market price for our ADSs could be highly volatile. Volatility in the price of our ADSs may be caused by factors within or outside of our control and may be unrelated or disproportionate to Ternium’s operating results. In particular, announcements of potentially adverse developments, such as proposed regulatory changes, new government investigations or the commencement or threat of litigation against Ternium, as well as announcements of transactions, investments, or changes in strategies or business plans of Ternium or its competitors, could adversely affect the trading price of our ADSs, regardless of the likely outcome of those developments. Broad market and industry factors could adversely affect the market price of our ADSs, regardless of its actual operating performance. As an example of this volatility, the price of our ADSs closed at USD45.18 on June 2, 2008, and fell to a low of USD4.55 on November 20, 2008. In 2009 and 2010, the price of our ADSs generally recovered to a high closing price of USD43.26 on January 5, 2011, but then fell to a 2011 low of USD15.54 on November 29, 2011. The price of our ADSs was generally in the range of USD17.6 to USD24.9 in 2012 and in the range of USD19.2 to USD31.3 in 2013. See Item 9 “The Offer and Listing—A. Offer and Listing Details.” Furthermore, the trading price of our ADSs could suffer as a result of developments in emerging markets. Although the Company is organized as a Luxembourg corporation, almost all of its assets and operations are located in Latin America. Financial and securities markets for companies with a substantial portion of their assets and operations in Latin America are, to varying degrees, influenced by political, economic and market conditions in emerging market countries. Although market conditions are different in each country, investor reaction to developments in one country can have significant effects on the securities of issuers with assets or operations in other emerging markets, including Mexico, Argentina and Colombia. See “—Risks Relating to the Countries in Which We Operate.” 19 Table of Contents In deciding whether to purchase, hold or sell our ADSs, you may not be able to access as much information about us as you would in the case of a U.S. company. There may be less publicly available information about us than is regularly published by or about U.S. issuers. Also, Luxembourg regulations governing the securities of Luxembourg companies may not be as extensive as those in effect in the United States, and Luxembourg law and regulations in respect of corporate governance matters might not be as protective of minority shareholders as state corporation laws in the United States. Furthermore, IFRS differ in certain material aspects from the accounting standards used in the United States. Holders of our ADSs may not be able to exercise, or may encounter difficulties in the exercise of, certain rights afforded to shareholders. Certain shareholders rights under Luxembourg law, including the right to vote, to receive dividends and distributions, to bring actions, to examine the books and records and to exercise appraisal rights may not be available to holders of ADSs, or may be subject to restrictions and special procedures for their exercise, as holders of ADSs only have those rights that are expressly granted to them in the deposit agreement. The Bank of New York Mellon, or BNY Mellon, as depositary, through its custodian agent, is the registered shareholder of the deposited shares underlying the ADSs and therefore only the depositary can exercise the shareholders rights in connection with the deposited shares. For example, if we make a distribution in the form of securities, the depositary is allowed, at its discretion, to sell that right to acquire those securities on your behalf and to instead distribute the net proceeds to you. Also, under certain circumstances, such as our failure to provide the depositary with voting materials on a timely basis, you may not be able to vote by giving instructions to the depositary. In the circumstances specified in the deposit agreement, if the depositary does not receive voting instructions from the holder of ADSs or the instructions are not in proper form, then the depositary shall deem such holder to have instructed the depositary to give, and the depositary shall give, a proxy to a person designated by the Company with respect to that amount of shares underlying such ADSs to vote that amount of shares underlying such ADSs in favor of any proposals or recommendations of the Company (including any recommendation by the Company to vote that amount of shares underlying such ADSs on any issue in accordance with the majority shareholders’ vote on that issue) as determined by the appointed proxy. No instruction shall be deemed given and no proxy shall be given with respect to any matter as to which the Company informs the depositary that (x) it does not wish such proxy given, (y) substantial opposition exists, or (z) the matter materially and adversely affects the rights of the holders of ADSs. Holders of our shares and ADSs in the United States may not be able to exercise preemptive rights in certain cases. Pursuant to Luxembourg corporate law, existing shareholders of the Company are generally entitled to preemptive subscription rights in the event of capital increases and issues of shares against cash contributions. Under the Company’s articles of association, the board of directors is authorized to waive, limit or suppress such preemptive subscription rights until July 15, 2015. The Company, however, may issue shares without preemptive rights only if the newly issued shares are issued: • for, within, in conjunction with or related to, an initial public offering of the shares of the Company on one or more regulated markets (in one or more instances); • for consideration other than cash; • upon conversion of convertible bonds or other instruments convertible into shares of the Company; provided, however, that the preemptive subscription rights of the then existing shareholders shall apply in connection with any issuance of convertible bonds or other instruments convertible into shares of the Company for cash; or • subject to a certain maximum percentage, as compensation to directors, officers, agents or employees of the Company, its direct or indirect subsidiaries or its affiliates, including without limitation the direct issuance of shares or the issuance of shares upon exercise of options, rights convertible into shares or similar instruments convertible or exchangeable into shares issued or created to provide compensation or incentives to directors, officers, agents or employees of the Company, its direct or indirect subsidiaries or its affiliates. For further details, see Item 10. “Additional Information—B. Memorandum and Articles of Association.” Furthermore, holders of our shares and ADSs in the United States may, in any event, not be able to exercise any preemptive rights, if granted, for shares unless those shares are registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) with respect to those rights or an exemption from registration is available. We intend to evaluate, at the time of any rights offering, the costs and potential liabilities associated with the exercise by holders of shares and ADSs of the preemptive rights for shares, and any other factors we consider appropriate at the time, and then to make a decision as to whether to register additional shares. We may decide not to register any additional shares, requiring a sale by the depositary of the holders’ rights and a distribution of the proceeds thereof. Should the depositary not be permitted or otherwise be unable to sell preemptive rights, the rights may be allowed to lapse with no consideration to be received by the holders of the ADSs. 20 Table of Contents It may be difficult to obtain or enforce judgments against the Company in U.S. courts or courts outside of the United States. The Company is a public limited liability company (société anonyme) organized under the laws of Luxembourg, and most of its assets are located outside of the United States. Furthermore, most of the Company’s directors and officers named in this annual report reside outside the United States. As a result, investors may not be able to effect service of process within the United States upon the Company or its directors or officers or to enforce against the Company or them in U.S. courts judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities law. Likewise, it may be difficult for a U.S. investor to bring an original action in a Luxembourg court predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against the Company, its directors or its officers. There is also uncertainty with regard to the enforceability of original actions in courts outside the United States of civil liabilities predicated upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws. Furthermore, the enforceability in courts outside the United States of judgments entered by U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities law will be subject to compliance with procedural requirements under applicable local law, including the condition that the judgment does not violate the public policy of the applicable jurisdiction. 