ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are risks that we believe are material to investors who purchase or own our securities. You should consider carefully the following risks, together with the other information contained in and incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and the descriptions included in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Risks Related to Our Business Recovery from the recent global economic crisis, which weakened demand for travel, hotels, dining and entertainment, has not been robust. In addition, boutique hotels such as ours remain more susceptible to future economic downturns than other segments of the hospitality industry, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The performance of the hospitality industry has traditionally been closely linked with the general economy. During the recent U.S. and global financial market crisis, the U.S. and global economies contracted significantly, reducing the amounts people spend on travel, hotels, dining and entertainment. The impact on boutique hotels, such as ours, was particularly harsh. In an economic downturn, boutique hotels may be more susceptible to a decrease in revenues, as compared to hotels in other segments that have lower room rates, because our hotels generally target business and high-end leisure travelers. Business and high-end leisure travelers may seek to reduce travel costs by limiting travel, choosing lower cost hotels or otherwise reducing the costs of their trips. These changes could result in steep declines in average daily room rates or occupancy, or both. Profitability also may be negatively affected by the relatively high fixed costs of operating hotels such as ours, when compared to other segments of the hospitality industry. Although the U.S. economy has since improved, this economic recovery, to date, has not been particularly robust. Moreover, global markets and economic conditions have been negatively impacted by new recessionary trends in the European Union (“EU”) and concerns over the ability of certain EU member states to service their sovereign debt obligations. If economic conditions do not improve as anticipated, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We can also provide no assurance that boutique hotels, such as ours, will recover to prior levels or that they will recover at a comparable rate with the rest of the hospitality industry. We have substantial debt, and we may incur additional indebtedness, which may negatively affect our business and financial results. As of December 31, 2012, we had $538.1 million of outstanding consolidated indebtedness, including capital lease obligations. Our share of indebtedness held by our joint venture entities, which debt is generally nonrecourse to us with the exception of certain standard nonrecourse carve-out guarantees, was approximately $97.6 million as of December 31, 2012. With respect to our nonrecourse carve-out guarantees, a violation of any of the nonrecourse carve-out guaranty provisions, including fraud, misapplication of funds and other customary nonrecourse carve-out provisions, could cause the debt to become fully recourse to us. Our substantial debt could negatively affect our business and operations in several ways, including: • requiring us to use a substantial portion of our funds from operations to make required payments on principal and interest, which would reduce funds available for operations and capital expenditures, future business opportunities and other purposes; • making us more vulnerable to economic and industry downturns, such as the one we recently experienced, and reducing our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions; • limiting our ability to borrow more money for operations, capital or to finance development projects or acquisitions in the future; and • requiring us to dispose of properties in order to make required payments of interest and principal. We also may incur additional debt in connection with any future development projects or acquisitions. However, any continued disruption or uncertainty in the credit markets could negatively impact our ability to access additional financing. We may, therefore, in some instances, borrow under our revolving credit facility, or borrow other funds to finance development projects or acquisitions. In addition, we may incur further mortgage debt by obtaining loans secured by the properties we acquire or our existing portfolio. Our working capital and liquidity reserves may not be adequate to cover all of our cash needs and we may have to obtain additional debt financing. Sufficient financing may not be available or, if available, may not be available on terms acceptable to us. Additional borrowings for working capital purposes will increase our interest expense, and therefore may harm our business and operations. 14 Table of Contents Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of indebtedness that we may incur. If we increase our leverage, the resulting increase in debt service could adversely affect our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and harm our business and operations. We anticipate that we will need to refinance our indebtedness from time to time to repay our debt, and our inability to refinance on favorable terms, or at all, could harm our business and operations. We have $180.0 million of mortgage debt on Hudson which matures in February 2014, with an option to extend the maturity to February 2015 if certain conditions are met, $172.5 million of 2.375% Senior Subordinated Convertible Notes (“Convertible Notes”) which mature on October 14, 2014, unless earlier repurchased by us or converted in accordance with their terms prior to such date, $18.0 million of promissory notes issued in connection with our November 2011 acquisition of 90% of the equity interests in a group of companies known as The Light Group (the “Light Group Transaction”) which mature in November 2015, a $7.4 million promissory note issued in connection with our August 2012 acquisition of leasehold interests in three restaurants at Mandalay Bay in Las Vegas which is payable over seven years with final payment in August 2019, $50.0 million of trust preferred securities which mature in October 2036 and 75,000 shares of Series A preferred securities for which the dividend rate will increase to 20% in October 2016. Since we anticipate that our internally generated cash will be inadequate to repay our indebtedness prior to maturity, we expect that we will be required to repay debt from time to time through refinancings of our indebtedness, offerings of equity or debt, asset dispositions, joint venture transactions or other financing transactions. The amount of our existing indebtedness and the continued tightness in the credit markets may harm our ability to repay our debt through refinancings. In addition, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of any refinancing result in higher interest rates on any refinancing, our interest expense would increase, which could harm our business and operations. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on acceptable terms, or at all, we might be forced to sell one or more of our properties on disadvantageous terms, which might result in losses to us, or default on the loan. We or our joint ventures did not repay the mortgage and mezzanine financing on several of our properties upon maturity, and in the future we or our joint ventures may elect to cease making payments on additional mortgages or sell a property at a loss if it fails to generate cash flow to cover its debt service or if we or our joint ventures are unable to refinance the debt at maturity, which could result in foreclosure proceedings, negative publicity and reduce the number of properties we or our joint ventures own or operate, as well as our revenues, and could negatively affect our ability to obtain loans or raise equity or debt financing in the future. In January 2011, we transferred our interest in the property across from Delano South Beach in Miami Beach to a related party of the holder of the promissory notes, and as a result of this transaction we were released from $10.5 million of nonrecourse mortgage and mezzanine indebtedness. In February 2011, the Hard Rock joint venture did not repay the $1.4 billion nonrecourse mortgage and mezzanine financing on the Hard Rock Hotel & Casino (the “Hard Rock”) in Las Vegas. In March 2011, the Hard Rock joint venture entered into a comprehensive settlement with its lenders pursuant to which the equity interest in the Hard Rock Hotel & Casino transferred to the first mezzanine lender and our management agreement was terminated. On September 15, 2009, the joint venture that owns Shore Club defaulted on its $123 million mortgage loan, and in March 2010, the lender initiated foreclosure proceedings, which were later dismissed by federal court but was subsequently re-instated in November 2010 by the lender in state court. A bench trial took place in June 2012 during which the trial court granted a default ruling of foreclosure. Entry of a foreclosure judgment has been delayed pending, among other things, resolution of a motion to disqualify the presiding trial court judge and corresponding relinquishment of jurisdiction from the Florida appeals court to the trial court. There can be no assurances as to whether or when a foreclosure sale may take place, or whether we will continue to operate the hotel in the event there is a foreclosure. The mortgage debt secured by Ames matured in October 2012 and the mortgage lender served the joint venture with a notice of event of default stating that the $46.5 million nonrecourse mortgage financing on the property was not repaid when it matured. The joint venture is pursuing discussions with the lenders, which include discussions regarding amending the termination rights under our management agreement. The mortgage loan on the Mondrian SoHo property matured in November 2012, and the mortgage lender served the joint venture with a notice of event of default stating that the $196.0 million nonrecourse mortgage financing on the property was not repaid when it matured. In January 2013, the lender initiated foreclosure proceedings seeking, among other things, the ability to sell the property free and clear of our management agreement. In February 2013, the owner of Mondrian SoHo, a joint venture in which Morgans Group owns a 20% equity interest, gave notice purporting to terminate our subsidiary as manager of the hotel. It also filed a lawsuit against us seeking termination of the management agreement. We intend to vigorously defend our rights to continue managing the property under our management agreement and related agreements, but we cannot assure you that we will be successful. 15 Table of Contents In the future, we or our joint venture entities or other owners of hotels we manage may cease making payments on the mortgages on one or more of our properties if the property fails to generate cash flow to cover its debt service or if we, the joint venture entity or other owners are unable to refinance the mortgage at maturity. To the extent we, our joint venture entities or other owners of hotels we manage, do not meet debt service obligations and we or the joint venture entity or other owners defaults on a mortgage or other loan, the lender may have the right to exercise various remedies under the loan documents, including foreclosing on the applicable property and, in certain situations, termination of our management agreement. Foreclosures can be expensive and lengthy processes, which could have a substantial negative effect on our operating results. Lenders may assert numerous claims and take various actions against us, including, without limitation, seeking a deficiency judgment or seeking to terminate our management agreement. Foreclosures may also create a negative public perception of us, resulting in a diminution of our brand value, and may negatively impact our ability to obtain loans or raise equity or debt financing in the future. Foreclosure actions may also require a substantial amount of resources and negotiations, which may divert the attention of our executive officers from other activities, adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. For a property, a foreclosure may also result in increased tax costs to us if we recognize income upon foreclosure. For tax purposes, a foreclosure on any of our properties would be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure but would not receive any cash proceeds. In the case of Ames, we, together with our joint venture partner for the hotel, would also be jointly and severally liable for a tax recapture guarantee in the event of a foreclosure. Pursuant to the tax recapture guarantee, we and our joint venture partner are required to reimburse a third-party tax credit investor for the loss of any federal historical rehabilitation tax credits during the first five years of the hotel’s operations. A foreclosure or certain other transfers could result in a liability of approximately $10.6 million under such tax recapture guarantee as of December 31, 2012, of which our pro rata share is $3.3 million. In addition, certain mortgage or other loan defaults could result in a default under our corporate debt, including our revolving credit facility, or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our revolving credit facility and other debt instruments contain covenants that may limit our ability to borrow and restrict our operations, and if we fail to comply with such covenants, such failure could result in a default under one or more of our debt instruments. Our revolving credit facility requires the maintenance of a fixed charge coverage ratio. Our ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility is subject to compliance with this financial and other covenants, and our ability to comply with the covenants may be impacted by any further deterioration in our operations brought on by continued economic uncertainty in the wake of the recent global economic downturn, potential further declines in our property values, and additional borrowings to maintain our liquidity and fund our capital and financing obligations. As of December 31, 2012, we are in compliance with the financial covenant set forth in our revolving credit facility. However, if our business deteriorates, we could breach our financial covenant in the future. In the event we breach our financial covenant, we would be in default under the revolving credit facility, which could allow the lender to declare all amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility to become due and payable. Additionally, an acceleration event under one debt instrument could allow for acceleration under other debt instruments with cross-acceleration provisions. If this happens, there would be a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. The amount available for borrowings under the revolving credit facility is contingent upon the borrowing base, which is calculated by reference to the appraised value and implied debt service coverage value of the collateral property securing the revolving credit facility. As of December 31, 2012, the maximum available borrowing base was approximately $86.9 million, of which approximately $10.0 million of letters of credit were posted and $19.0 million was outstanding. Our ability to borrow under the revolving credit facility and the amount of cash that may need to be retained from such borrowings also depends on our ability to maintain the revolving credit facility’s financial covenant. Depending on economic conditions and the performance of our properties, however, this borrowing base may be reduced in the future. As a result, we cannot assure you of the future amount, if any, that will be available under our revolving credit facility. 16 Table of Contents In addition, the revolving credit facility, our trust preferred securities, and our Convertible Notes include limitations on our ability to sell all or substantially all of our assets and engage in mergers, consolidations and certain acquisitions. These covenants may restrict our ability to engage in transactions that we believe would otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. Some of our other existing indebtedness, and the indebtedness of certain of our joint ventures, contain limitations on the ability to incur additional debt on specific properties, as well as financial covenants relating to the performance of those properties. If these covenants restrict us or the applicable joint venture from engaging in activities that we believe would benefit those properties, our growth may be limited. If we or the applicable joint venture fail to comply with these covenants, consents or waivers from compliance with these covenants will need to be obtained, which may take time, cost money, or require prepayment of the debt containing the restrictive covenants. If we were required to make payments under the “bad boy” nonrecourse carve-out guaranties that we have provided in connection with certain mortgages and related mezzanine loans, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. We have provided standard “bad boy” nonrecourse carve-out guaranties in connection with certain mortgages and related mezzanine loans, which are otherwise nonrecourse to us or have agreed to indemnify joint venture partners who have provided such guaranties for our pro rata share of certain liabilities under such guaranties. See, for example, nonrecourse carve-out guaranties and other guaranties or indemnification obligations provided by us in connection with mortgage and mezzanine loans associated with Mondrian South Beach, Mondrian SoHo and Ames properties, as described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —Liquidity and Capital Resources—Other Liquidity Matters.” Although we believe that our “bad boy” carve-out guaranties and related indemnification obligations are not guaranties of payment in the event of foreclosure or other actions of the foreclosing lender that are beyond our control, some lenders in the real estate industry have recently sought to make claims for payment under such guaranties. In the event such a claim were made against us under one of our “bad boy” carve-out guaranties or related indemnification obligations following foreclosure on a related mortgage or mezzanine loan and such claim were successful, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. We have incurred substantial losses and have a significant net deficit, and due to the recent global economic downturn, may continue to incur losses in the future. We reported pre-tax net losses of $55.7 million, $87.5 million, and $100.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. Our net losses primarily reflect decreased revenues due to renovation work at our Owned Hotels, losses in equity of unconsolidated joint ventures, impairment charges, interest expense and depreciation and amortization charges. Although we sold three of our owned hotels and sold our ownership interest in the entity that owns Sanderson and St Martins Lane in 2011 and have impaired many of our unconsolidated joint ventures, we believe these losses could continue to be significant in future years. Additionally, we recorded non-cash expense in 2010 related to changes in value of warrants issued to Yucaipa American Alliance Fund II, L.P. and Yucaipa American Alliance (Parallel) Fund II, L.P., (collectively, the “Yucaipa Investors”), which we do not expect to continue. Further, stock compensation, a non-cash expense, contributed to the net losses recorded during 2012, 2011, and 2010. There can be no assurance that we will attain profitability and generate net income for our stockholders in the near term or at all. Disruptions in the financial markets could affect our ability and the ability of our joint venture partners to obtain capital or financing for development of properties and other purposes on reasonable terms. As part of our strategy, we recently shifted towards a more “asset light” business model, whereby we focus on management opportunities, which may entail the investment of key money, equity and cash flow guarantees. We also may continue, through joint ventures, to acquire and develop, or redevelop, hotel properties as suitable opportunities arise. These investments could require significant capital expenditures, especially since these properties usually generate little or no cash flow until the project’s completion. To the extent the expenditures are significant, we may rely upon the availability of debt or equity capital. 17 Table of Contents During the most recent global economic recession, U.S. and global markets experienced significant price volatility, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability and other market dislocations. These circumstances materially impacted liquidity in the financial markets, making terms for certain types of capital or financings less attractive, and in some cases resulted in the unavailability of capital or financing. Although the U.S. market has since begun to improve, continued uncertainty in the stock and credit markets, including as a result of the EU’s sovereign debt crisis and new recessionary trends in the EU, and our financial condition or the financial condition of our properties, may prevent or negatively impact our ability to access additional capital or financing for development of properties and other purposes at reasonable terms, which may cause us, or our joint venture partners, to suspend, abandon or delay development and other activities and otherwise negatively affect our business. As a result, we, or our joint venture partners, may be forced to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive capital or financing and adjust our business plan accordingly. These events also may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital through the issuance of our common stock or preferred stock. Boutique hotels are a highly competitive segment of the hospitality industry. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business and operations will be adversely affected by declines in our average daily room rates or occupancy, or both. We generally compete in the “boutique” or “lifestyle” hotel segment of the hospitality industry. We believe that this segment is highly competitive. Competition within the boutique hotel segment is also likely to increase in the future. Competitive factors in the hospitality industry include name recognition, quality of service, convenience of location, quality of the property, pricing and range and quality of food services and amenities offered. Market perception that we no longer provide innovative property concepts and designs would adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. If we are unable to compete effectively, we would lose market share, which could adversely affect our business and operations. All of our properties are located in areas with numerous competitors, many of whom have substantially greater resources than us. In addition, new hotels may be constructed in the areas in which our properties are located, possibly without corresponding increases in demand for hotel rooms. New or existing competitors could offer significantly lower rates or more convenient locations, services or amenities or significantly expand, improve or introduce new service offerings in markets in which our hotels compete, thereby posing a greater competitive threat than at present. The resulting decrease in our revenues could adversely affect our business and operations. Our success depends on the value of our name, image and brands, and if the demand for our hotels and their features decreases or the value of our name, image or brands diminishes, our business and operations would be adversely affected. Our success depends, to a large extent, on our ability to shape and stimulate consumer tastes and demands by producing and maintaining innovative, attractive, and exciting properties and services, as well as our ability to remain competitive in the areas of design and quality. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in this regard or that we will be able to anticipate and react to changing consumer tastes and demands in a timely manner. Furthermore, a high media profile is an integral part of our ability to shape and stimulate demand for our hotels with our target customers. A key aspect of our marketing strategy is to focus on attracting media coverage. If we fail to attract that media coverage, we may need to substantially increase our advertising and marketing costs, which would adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, other types of marketing tools, such as traditional advertising and marketing, may not be successful in attracting our target customers. Our business would be adversely affected if our public image, reputation or brands were to be diminished, including as a result of any failure to remain competitive in the areas of design, quality and service. If we do not maintain our hotel properties at a high level, which necessitates, from time to time, capital expenditures and the replacement of furniture, fixtures and equipment, or the owners of the hotels that we manage fail to develop or maintain the properties at standards worthy of the Morgans Hotel Group brands, the value of our name, image or brands would be diminished and our business and operations would be adversely affected. Any failure to protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on the value of our brand names and adversely affect our business. We believe that our trademarks are critical to our success. We rely on trademark laws to protect our proprietary rights. The success of our business depends in part upon our continued ability to use our trademarks to increase brand awareness and further develop our brands in both domestic and international markets. Monitoring the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult. Litigation has been and may continue to be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, may result in counterclaims or other claims against us and could significantly harm our results of operations. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. 18 Table of Contents From time to time, we apply to have certain trademarks registered. There is no guarantee that such trademark registrations will be granted. We cannot assure you that all of the steps we have taken to protect our trademarks in the United States and foreign countries will be adequate to prevent imitation of our trademarks by others. The unauthorized reproduction of our trademarks could diminish the value of our brands and their market acceptance, competitive advantages or goodwill, which could adversely affect our business. We may have disputes with, or be sued by, third parties for infringement or misappropriation of their proprietary rights, which could have a negative impact on our business. Other parties may assert trademark, copyright or other intellectual property rights that have a negative impact on our business. We cannot assure you that others will not seek to block our use of certain marks or seek monetary damages or other remedies for the prior use of our brand names or other intellectual property or the sale of our products or services as a violation of their trademark, copyright or other proprietary rights. Defending any claims, even claims without merit, could divert our management’s attention, consume significant time, result in costly settlements, litigation or restrictions on our business and damage our reputation. In addition, there may be prior registrations or use of trademarks in the United States or foreign countries for similar or competing marks or other proprietary rights. In all such countries it may be possible for any third-party owner of a national trademark registration or other proprietary right to enjoin or limit our expansion into those countries or to seek damages for our use of such intellectual property in such countries. In the event a claim against us was successful and we could not obtain a license to the relevant intellectual property or redesign or rename our products or operations to avoid infringement, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. Securing registrations does not fully insulate us against intellectual property claims, as another party may have rights superior to our registration or our registration may be vulnerable to attack on various grounds. Our hotels are geographically concentrated in a limited number of cities and, accordingly, we could be disproportionately harmed by an economic downturn in these cities or a disaster, such as a hurricane or earthquake. The concentration of our hotels in a limited number of cities exposes us to greater risk to local economic, business and other conditions than more geographically diversified hotel companies. Morgans, Royalton, Hudson and Mondrian SoHo, located in Manhattan, represented approximately 41.0% of our total guest rooms for all the hotels we manage and Hudson, our only wholly-owned New York City hotel as of December 31, 2012, represents approximately $62.3 million, or 32.8%, of our consolidated hotel revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012. An economic downturn, a natural disaster, a terrorist attack or similar disaster in New York would likely cause a decline in the Manhattan hotel market and adversely affect occupancy rates, the financial performance of our New York hotels and our overall results of operations. For example, in October 2012, our operations in New York City were impacted by Hurricane Sandy. Although all four of our New York properties were operating during the storm and none of them suffered any significant property damage, we had to close both Morgans and Mondrian SoHo due to a lack of power for several days. In addition, we operate three hotels in Miami, making us susceptible to economic slowdowns and other factors in this market, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, certain of our hotels are located in markets that are more susceptible to natural disasters than others, which could adversely affect those hotels, the local economies, or both. Specifically, the Miami area, where Delano South Beach, Shore Club and Mondrian South Beach are located, is susceptible to hurricanes and California, where Mondrian Los Angeles and Clift are located, is susceptible to earthquakes. The threat of terrorism may negatively impact the hospitality industry generally and may have a particularly adverse impact on major metropolitan areas. The threat of terrorism may negatively impact hotel occupancy and average daily rate, due to resulting disruptions in business and leisure travel patterns and concerns about travel safety. Hotels in major metropolitan areas, such as New York and London, which represented approximately 50.9% of our total guest rooms for all the hotels we managed at December 31, 2012, may be particularly adversely affected due to concerns about travel safety. The impact on such major metropolitan areas may be particularly severe because of the importance of transient business travel, which includes the corporate and premium business segments that generally pay the highest average room rates, to those markets. The possibility of future attacks may hamper business and leisure travel patterns and, accordingly, the performance of our business and our operations. 19 Table of Contents We are exposed to the risks of a global market, which could hinder our ability to maintain and expand our international operations. We currently have operating hotels in the United States, the United Kingdom, Mexico and Morocco and plan to expand to numerous other international markets. The success and profitability of any future international operations are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control, such as: • global economic conditions, such as the recent global economic downturn, new recessionary trends in the EU, and uncertainty of the ability of certain EU member states to service their sovereign debt obligations; • political or economic instability; • changes in governmental regulation; • trade restrictions; • foreign currency controls; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing operations in certain foreign countries; • work stoppages or other changes in labor conditions; • taxes; • payments terms; and • seasonal reductions in business activity in some parts of the world. Furthermore, changes in policies and/or laws of the United States or foreign governments resulting in, among other things, higher taxation, currency conversion limitations or the expropriation of private enterprises could reduce the anticipated benefits of our international operations. Any actions by countries in which we conduct business to reverse policies that encourage foreign trade could adversely affect our business relationships and gross profit. In addition, we may be restricted in moving or repatriating funds attributable to our international properties without the approval of foreign governmental authorities or courts. These limitations could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Establishing operations in any foreign country or region presents risks such as those described above, as well as risks specific to the particular country or region. We may not be able to maintain and expand our international operations successfully, and as a result, our business operations could be adversely affected. The hotel business is capital intensive and requires capital improvements to remain competitive; the failure to timely fund such capital improvements, the rising cost of such improvements and increasing operating expenses could negatively impact our ability to compete, reduce our cash flow and adversely affect our financial performance. Our hotel properties have an ongoing need for renovations and other capital improvements to remain competitive, including replacement, from time to time, of furniture, fixtures and equipment. To compete effectively, we will need to, or convince our joint venture partners or other third party owners to, make capital expenditures to maintain our innovative property concepts and designs. In addition, we will need to make capital expenditures to comply with applicable laws and regulations. For example, in 2012, we spent approximately $23.2 million renovating Hudson and in 2012 and 2011, we spent an aggregate of approximately $10.9 million on certain renovation projects at Delano South Beach. For 2013 we, our joint venture entities, and owners of our hotels plan to spend approximately $13 million for capital improvements and renovations to hotels that we manage. If we, our joint venture entities or other owners of our hotels are not able to fund capital improvements solely from cash provided from hotel operations, debt or equity capital may be needed, which may not be available. If we, our joint venture entities or other owners of our hotels cannot access debt or equity capital, capital improvements may need to be postponed or cancelled, which could harm our ability to remain competitive. In addition, renovations and other capital improvements to our hotels may be expensive and may require us to close all or a portion of the hotels to customers during such renovations, affecting occupancy and average daily rate. These capital improvements may give rise to the following additional risks, among others: • construction cost overruns and delays; • exposure under completion and related guarantees; • uncertainties as to market demand or a loss of market demand after capital improvements have begun; • disruption in service and room availability causing reduced demand, occupancy and rates; and • possible environmental problems. 20 Table of Contents As a result, capital improvement projects may increase our expenses and reduce our cash flows and our revenues. If capital expenditures exceed our expectations, this excess would have an adverse effect on our available cash. In addition, our revolving credit facility prohibits us or any of our subsidiaries from incurring indebtedness in excess of $5 million to finance the acquisition, construction or improvement of any fixed or capital assets owned by us or our subsidiaries. We have high fixed costs, including property taxes and insurance costs, which we may be unable to adjust in a timely manner in response to a reduction in revenues. In addition, our property taxes have increased in recent years and we expect those increases to continue. The costs associated with owning and operating hotels are significant, some of which may not be altered in a timely manner in response to changes in demand for services. Failure to adjust our expenses may adversely affect our business and operations. For example, pursuant to the terms of our agreements with the labor unions for our New York City, San Francisco and Boston hotels, and TLG operations in Las Vegas, we may not unilaterally reduce the wages of the employees subject to these agreements, and are restricted in the manner in which we may layoff and/or alter the schedule of employees. Property taxes and insurance costs are a significant part of our operating expenses. In recent years, our real property taxes have increased and we anticipate those increases may continue. Our real property taxes may increase as property tax rates change and as the values of properties are assessed and reassessed by taxing authorities. Our real estate taxes do not depend on our revenues, and generally we cannot reduce them, other than by filing appeals with the applicable tax jurisdictions to reduce our tax assessments. Insurance premiums for the hospitality industry have increased significantly in recent years, and continued escalation may result in our inability to obtain adequate insurance at acceptable premium rates. A continuation of this trend would appreciably increase the operating expenses of our hotels. If we do not obtain adequate insurance, to the extent that any of the events not covered by an insurance policy materialize, our financial condition may be materially adversely affected. In the future, our properties may be subject to increases in real estate and other tax rates, utility costs, operating expenses, insurance costs, repairs and maintenance and administrative expenses, as well as reductions in our revenues due to the effects of economic downturns, which could reduce our cash flow and adversely affect our financial performance. If our revenues decline and we are unable to reduce our expenses in a timely manner, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We may not be able to successfully compete for desirable hotel management, development, acquisition or investment opportunities. We may not be successful in identifying or completing hotel projects that are consistent with our strategy. We compete with hotel operating companies, institutional pension funds, private equity investors, real estate investment trusts, owner-operators of hotels and others who are engaged in hotel operating or real estate investment activities for the operation, development, and acquisition of hotels. In addition, competition for suitable hotel management, development, investment, and acquisition opportunities is intense and may increase in the future. Some competitors may have substantially greater financial resources than we do, and as such, will be able to invest more or accept greater risk than we can prudently manage. These competitors may limit the number of suitable hotel management, development, investment and acquisition opportunities for us by driving up the price we must pay for such opportunities. In addition, our potential hotel management or development projects or acquisition targets may find our competitors to be more attractive investors because they may have greater resources, be willing to pay more, have a more compatible operating philosophy, or better relationships with hotel franchisors, sellers or lenders. Furthermore, the terms of our management agreements are influenced by contract terms offered by our competitors, among other things. We cannot assure you that any of our current arrangements will continue or that we will be able to enter into future collaborations, renew agreements, or enter into new agreements in the future on terms that are as favorable to us as those that exist today. Even if we are able to successfully identify and acquire other hotel management or development projects, acquisitions or investments, they may not yield the returns we expect and, if financed using our equity capital, may be dilutive. We also may incur significant costs and divert management attention in connection with evaluating and negotiating potential hotel management or development projects or acquisitions, including ones that we or others are subsequently unable to complete. We may underestimate the costs necessary to bring a hotel management agreement or development project or acquired property up to the standards established for its intended market position or to re-develop it as a Morgans Hotel Group brand hotel or the costs to integrate it with our existing operations. Significant costs of hotel development projects or acquisitions could materially impact our operating results, including costs of uncompleted hotel development projects or acquisitions, as they would generally be expensed in the time period during which they are incurred. 21 Table of Contents Integration of new hotels or food and beverage operations may be difficult and may adversely affect our business and operations. The success of any hotel management or development project or acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from integrating new hotels with our existing operations. For instance, we may manage, develop or acquire new hotels in geographic areas in which our management may have little or no operating experience and in which potential customers may not be familiar with our existing hotels, name, image or brands. These hotels may attract fewer customers than our existing hotels, while at the same time, we may incur substantial additional costs with these new hotel properties. As a result, the results of operations at new hotel properties may be inferior to those of our existing hotels. Unanticipated expenses and insufficient demand at a new hotel property, therefore, could adversely affect our business. Our success in realizing anticipated benefits and the timing of this realization depend upon the successful integration of the operations of the new hotel. This integration is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. The difficulties of combining new hotel properties with our existing operations include, among others: • coordinating sales, distribution and marketing functions; • integrating information systems; • preserving the important licensing, distribution, marketing, customer, labor, and other relationships of a new hotel; • costs relating to the opening, operation and promotion of new hotel properties that are substantially greater than those incurred in other geographic areas; and • converting hotels to our brands. We may not accomplish the integration of new hotels or food and beverage operations smoothly or successfully. The diversion of the attention of our management from our existing operations to integration efforts and any difficulties encountered in combining operations could prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits from the new addition and could adversely affect our business and operations. The use of joint ventures or other entities, over which we may not have full control, for hotel development projects or acquisitions could prevent us from achieving our objectives. We have in the past and may in the future acquire, develop or redevelop hotel properties through joint ventures with third parties, acquiring non-controlling interests in or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of a property, joint venture or other entity. As of December 31, 2012, we owned our Mondrian South Beach hotel through a 50/50 joint venture, our Ames hotel in Boston through a joint venture in which our interest was approximately 31%, and our Mondrian SoHo hotel through a joint venture in which our interest was 20%. To the extent we own properties through joint ventures or other entities, we may not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the property, joint venture or other entity. Investments in joint ventures or other entities may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that partners might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. Likewise, partners may have economic or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. Such investments may also have the potential risk of creating impasses on decisions if neither we nor our partner have full control over the joint venture or other entity. Disputes between us and our partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent management from focusing their time and effort on our business. Consequently, actions by, or disputes with, our partners might result in subjecting properties owned by the joint venture to additional risk. In addition, we may, in certain circumstances, be liable for the actions of our partners. 22 Table of Contents We have invested, and may continue to invest in the future, in select properties which have residential components, and this strategy may not yield the returns we expect and may result in disruptions to our business or strain management resources. As part of our growth strategy, we may seek to leverage awareness of our hotel brands by acquiring, developing and/or managing non-hotel properties, such as condominium developments and other residential projects, including condominiums or apartments. We may invest in these opportunities solely or with joint venture partners. For example, in August 2006, together with a 50/50 joint venture partner, we acquired an apartment building in the South Beach area of Miami Beach, Florida, which we renovated and converted into a hotel and condominium project and re-branded as Mondrian South Beach. This strategy, however, may expose us to additional risks, including the following: • we may be unable to obtain, or face delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy, and other required governmental permits and authorizations, which could result in increased development or re-development costs and/or lower than expected sales; • the recent downturn in market conditions for residences, which has partially been the result of the reduction in credit availability and the worsening of pricing terms, has affected and may continue to affect our ability to sell residential units at a profit or at the price levels originally anticipated; • local residential real estate market conditions, such as the current oversupply and reduction in demand, may result in reduced or fluctuating sales; • cost overruns, including development or re-development costs that exceed our original estimates, could make completion of the project uneconomical; • land, insurance and development or re-development costs continue to increase and may continue to increase in the future, and we may be unable to attract rents or sales prices that compensate for these increases in costs; • development or re-development of condominium properties usually generate little or no cash flow until the project’s completion and the sale of a significant number of condominium units and may experience operating deficits after the date of completion and until such condominium units are sold; • failure to achieve expected occupancy and/or rent levels at residential apartment properties within the projected time frame, if at all; • failure to attract sufficient participation in the hotel rental program by condominium hotel unit owners may result in a low hotel room inventory making it difficult to run the hotel profitably; • condominium hotel unit owners may attempt to rent their units as hotel units outside of the hotel rental program, which may result in confusion and guest relations issues and reputational damage to our brands; and • we may abandon development or re-development opportunities that we have already begun to explore, and we may fail to recover expenses already incurred in connection with exploring any such opportunities. Overall project costs may significantly exceed the costs that were estimated when the project was originally undertaken, which will result in reduced returns, or even losses, from our investment. We may be involved in disputes, from time to time, with the owners of the hotels that we manage. The nature of our responsibilities under our management agreements to manage hotels that are not wholly-owned by us may be subject to interpretation and will from time to time give rise to disagreements. Such disagreements may be more likely as hotel returns are depressed as a result of the recent global economic downturn. To the extent that such conflicts arise, we seek to resolve them by negotiation with the relevant parties. In the event that such resolution cannot be achieved, litigation may result in damages or other remedies against us. Such remedies could include termination of the right to manage the relevant property. We may be terminated pursuant to the terms of certain hotel management agreements or related agreements if we do not achieve established performance criteria or we or the joint venture defaults on the related mortgage loan. Certain of our management agreements allow the hotel owner to replace us if certain financial or performance criteria are not met and in certain cases, upon a sale of the property. Our ability to meet these financial and performance criteria is subject to, among other things, the risks described in this section. There can be no assurances that we will satisfy these financial or performance tests in our management agreements, many of which may be beyond our control, or that our management agreements will not be subject to early termination. Several of our hotels are also subject to substantial mortgage and mezzanine debt, and in some instances our management fee is subordinated to the debt and our management agreements may be terminated by the lenders on foreclosure. With all of our new management agreements for hotels under development, we attempt to negotiate non-disturbance agreements or similar protections with the mortgage lender, or to require that such agreements be entered into upon securing of financing, in order to protect our management agreements in the event of foreclosure. However, we are not always successful in imposing these requirements and some of our new development projects and some of our existing hotels do not have non-disturbance or similar protections. Even if we have such non-disturbance protections in place, they may be subject to conditions and may be difficult or costly to enforce in a foreclosure situation. In November 2010, the mortgage lender for Shore Club initiated foreclosure proceedings in state court and a bench trial took place in June 2012 during which the trial court granted a default ruling of foreclosure. Entry of a foreclosure judgment has been delayed pending, among other things, resolution of a motion to disqualify the presiding trial court judge and corresponding relinquishment of jurisdiction from the Florida appeals court to the trial court. There can be no assurances as to whether or when a foreclosure sale may take place, or whether we will continue to operate the hotel in the event there is a foreclosure. 23 Table of Contents The mortgage debt secured by Ames matured in October 2012 and the mortgage lender has served the joint venture with a notice of event of default stating that the $46.5 million nonrecourse mortgage financing on the property was not repaid when it matured. The joint venture is pursuing discussions with the lenders, which include discussions regarding amending the termination rights under our management agreement. Additionally, the mortgage debt secured by Mondrian SoHo matured in November 2012, and in January 2013, the lender initiated foreclosure proceedings seeking, among other things, the ability to sell the property free and clear of our management agreement. In February 2013, the owner of Mondrian SoHo, a joint venture in which Morgans Group owns a 20% equity interest, gave notice purporting to terminate our subsidiary as manager of the hotel. It also filed a lawsuit against us seeking termination of the management agreement. We intend to vigorously defend our rights to continue managing the property under our management agreement and related agreements, but we cannot assure you that we will be successful. Our operating results would be adversely affected if we could not maintain existing management agreements or obtain new agreements on as favorable terms as the existing agreements. Our operations are sensitive to currency exchange risks, and we cannot predict the impact of future exchange-rate fluctuations on our business and operating results. Our operations are sensitive to currency exchange risks. Changes in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar may adversely affect our operating results. For example, all else being equal, a weaker U.S. dollar will tend to promote international tourism in our domestic markets but may reduce U.S. travel to our international markets. As foreign currencies appreciate against the U.S. dollar, it becomes less expensive, in terms of those appreciating foreign currencies, to pay for our U.S. hotel services. Conversely, all else being equal, an appreciating U.S. dollar could affect demand for our U.S. hotel services but may increase U.S. travel to our international markets. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange-rate fluctuations on our business and operations. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, it may have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. We are subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the applicable SEC rules and regulations that require our management to conduct an annual assessment and to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must issue an attestation report addressing the operating effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. While our internal controls over financial reporting currently meet all of the standards required by Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, failure to maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and the price of our common stock. We cannot be certain as to our ability to continue to comply with the requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we are not able to continue to comply with the requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, including the SEC or Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. In addition, should we identify a material weakness, there can be no assurance that we would be able to remediate such material weakness in a timely manner in future periods. Moreover, if we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in any future period (or if our auditors are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, and incur significant expenses to restructure our internal controls over financial reporting, which may have an a material adverse effect on our business and operations. We depend on our senior management for the future success of our business, and the loss of one or more of our key personnel could have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business and implement our growth strategies, and could be negatively perceived in the capital markets. Our future success and our ability to manage future growth depend, in large part, upon the efforts of our senior management team, which has substantial experience in the hospitality industry and which exercises substantial influence over our operational, financing, acquisition and disposition activity. It could be difficult for us to find replacements for our senior management, as competition for such personnel is intense. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team could have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business and implement our growth strategies. Further, such a loss could be negatively perceived in the capital markets, which could reduce the market value of our securities. 24 Table of Contents Because Clift is leased pursuant to a 99-year lease and a portion of Hudson is the lease of a condominium interest, we are subject to the risk that these leases could be terminated or that we could default on payments under the lease, either of which would cause us to lose the ability to operate these hotels. Our rights to operate Clift in San Francisco are based upon our interest under a 99-year lease. In addition, a portion of Hudson in New York is a condominium interest that is leased to us under a 99-year lease. Pursuant to the terms of the leases for these hotels, we are required to pay all rent due and comply with all other lessee obligations under the leases. Any transfer, including a pledge, of our interest in a lease may require the consent of the applicable lessor and its lenders. As a result, we may not be able to sell, assign, transfer or convey our lessee’s interest in any hotel subject to a lease in the future absent consent of such third parties even if such transactions may be in the best interest of our stockholders. The lessor may require us, at the expiration or termination of the lease to surrender or remove any improvements, alterations or additions to the land or hotel at our own expense. The leases also generally require us to restore the premises following a casualty or taking and to apply in a specified manner any proceeds received in connection therewith. We may have to restore the premises if a material casualty, such as a fire or an act of God, occurs, the cost of which may exceed any available insurance proceeds. The termination of any of these leases could cause us to lose the ability to continue operating these hotels, which would materially affect our business and results of operations. In addition, we may be unable to make payments under the leases if we are not able to operate the properties profitably. For example, due to the amount of the lease payments, our subsidiary that leases Clift had not been operating Clift at a profit and Morgans Group had been funding cash shortfalls sustained at Clift in order to enable our subsidiary to make lease payments from time to time. On March 1, 2010, we discontinued subsidizing the lease payments and our subsidiary stopped making the scheduled monthly payments. On September 17, 2010, we and our subsidiaries, entered into a settlement and release agreement with the lessors, which among other things, effectively provided for the settlement of all outstanding litigation claims and disputes among the parties relating to the defaulted lease payments and reduced the lease payments due to lessors for the period from March 1, 2010 through February 29, 2012. Effective March 1, 2012, the annual rent reverted to the rent amount stated in the lease agreement, which currently provides for base annual rent of approximately $6.0 million per year through October 2014. Thereafter, the base rent increases at 5-year intervals by a formula tied to increases in the Consumer Price Index, with a maximum increase of 40% and a minimum increase of 20% at October 2014, and a maximum increase of 20% and a minimum increase of 10% at each 5-year rent increase date thereafter. The lease is nonrecourse to us. We can provide no assurance that we can operate the property at a profit now or upon increase of payments under the lease. Morgans Group also entered into a limited guaranty, dated September 17, 2010, whereby Morgans Group agreed to guarantee losses of up to $6 million suffered by the lessors in the event of certain “bad boy” type acts. We are party to numerous contracts and operating agreements, certain of which limit our activities through restrictive covenants or consent rights. Violation of those covenants or failure to receive consents could lead to termination of those contracts or operating agreements. We are party to numerous contracts and operating agreements, many of which are integral to our business operations. Certain of those contracts and operating agreements, including our joint venture agreements, generally require that we obtain the consent of the other party or parties before taking certain actions and/or contain restrictive covenants that could affect the manner in which we conduct our business. Our failure to comply with restrictive covenants or failure to obtain consents could provide the beneficiaries of those covenants or consents with the right to terminate the relevant contract or operating agreement or seek damages against us. If those claims relate to agreements that are integral to our operations, any termination could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Risks Related to the Hospitality Industry A number of factors, many of which are common to the lodging industry and beyond our control, could affect our business, including those described elsewhere in this section as well as the following: • competition from other hotels in the markets in which we operate; • over-building of hotels in the markets in which we operate which results in increased supply and would likely adversely affect occupancy and revenues at our hotels; • dependence on business, commercial and leisure travelers and tourism; • dependence on group and meeting/conference business; • increases in energy costs, property taxes or insurance costs; 25 Table of Contents • requirements for periodic capital reinvestment to repair and upgrade hotels; • increases in operating costs due to inflation and other factors that may not be offset by increased room rates; • changes in interest rates; • changes in the availability, cost and terms of financing; • adverse effects of international, national, regional and local economic and market conditions; • unforeseen events beyond our control, such as terrorist attacks, travel-related health concerns and other factors that may affect travel patterns and reduce the number of business and commercial travelers and tourists; • adverse effects of worsening conditions in the lodging industry; • changes in laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances; and • risks generally associated with the ownership of hotel properties and real estate. These factors could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Seasonal variations in revenue at our hotels can be expected to cause quarterly fluctuations in our revenues. The hospitality industry is seasonal in nature. This seasonality can be expected to cause quarterly fluctuations in our revenues. Our revenue is generally highest in the second and fourth quarters. Our quarterly earnings may also be adversely affected by factors outside our control, including weather conditions and poor economic conditions, such as the recent global economic downturn, which significantly affected the hospitality industry. As a result, we may have to enter into short-term borrowings in certain quarters in order to offset these fluctuations in revenues. The industries in which we operate are heavily regulated and a failure to comply with regulatory requirements may result in an adverse effect on our business. Any failure to comply with regulatory requirements may result in an adverse effect on our business. Our various properties are subject to numerous laws, including those relating to the preparation and sale of food and beverages, including alcohol. The failure to comply with such laws could subject us to a number of adverse consequences, including fines or even suspension or revocation of liquor licenses. We are also subject to laws governing our relationship with our employees in such areas as minimum wage and maximum working hours, overtime, working conditions, hiring and firing employees and work permits. Also, our ability to remodel, refurbish or add to our existing properties may be dependent upon our obtaining necessary building permits from local authorities. The failure to obtain any of these permits could adversely affect our ability to increase revenues and net income through capital improvements of our properties. In addition, we are subject to the numerous rules and regulations relating to state and federal taxation. Compliance with these rules and regulations requires significant management attention. Any failure to comply with all such rules and regulations could subject us to fines or audits by the applicable taxation authority. In addition, our business is reliant upon technology systems and networks, including systems and networks managed by third parties, to process, transmit and store information and to conduct many of our business activities and transactions with clients, vendors and other third parties. Accordingly, we are required to comply with data privacy regulations in both the United States and other jurisdictions in which we operate, which regulations are designed to protect sensitive client information. Maintaining the integrity of our systems and networks is critical to the success of our business operations and to the protection of our proprietary information and our clients’ personal information. Accordingly, any breaches or interference with such systems or networks by third parties or by our employees may result in fines, damage to our reputation, restrictions on the use and transfer of information and otherwise have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have implemented security measures designed to protect against such breaches of security. Despite these measures, we cannot assure you that our systems and networks will not be subject to breaches or interference. Any such event may result in unauthorized access to or the disclosure or loss of our proprietary information or our clients’ personal information, which in turn may result in legal claims, regulatory scrutiny and liability, reputational damage, the incurrence of costs to eliminate or mitigate further exposure and damage to our business. We cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities, discovery of new vulnerabilities, attempts to exploit vulnerabilities in our systems, data thefts, physical system or network break-ins or inappropriate access, or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology or other security measures protecting the networks and systems used in connection with our business. We have, in the past, been subject to systems, network and data breaches, including breaches that resulted in unauthorized access to client data. There can be no assurance that such incidents will not occur again. In addition, third parties with which we do business may also be sources of systems, network or other technological risks. 26 Table of Contents The illiquidity of real estate investments and the lack of alternative uses of hotel properties could significantly limit our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties and harm our financial condition. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more of our properties in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions is limited. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. Although we evaluate alternative uses throughout our portfolio, including residential conversion and other opportunities, hotel properties may not readily be converted to alternative uses. The conversion of a hotel to alternative uses would also generally require substantial capital expenditures and may not provide a more profitable return than the use of the hotel property prior to that conversion. We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. We may not have funds available to correct those defects or to make those improvements and as a result our ability to sell the property would be limited. In acquiring a hotel, we may agree to lock-out provisions that materially restrict us from selling that hotel for a period of time or impose other restrictions on us. These factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties could significantly harm our financial condition and results of operations. Uninsured and underinsured losses could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are responsible for insuring our hotel properties as well as obtaining the appropriate insurance coverage to reasonably protect our interests in the ordinary course of business except in connection with some of our hotels where insurance is provided for by the respective property owners. Additionally, each of our leases and loans typically specifies that comprehensive insurance be maintained on each of our hotel properties, including liability, fire and extended coverage. There are certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes and floods or terrorist acts, which may be uninsurable or not economically insurable, or may be subject to insurance coverage limitations, such as large deductibles or co-payments. We will use our discretion in determining amounts, coverage limits, deductibility provisions of insurance and the appropriateness of self-insuring, with a view to maintaining appropriate insurance coverage on our investments at a reasonable cost and on suitable terms. Uninsured and underinsured losses could harm our financial condition and results of operations. We could incur liabilities resulting from loss or injury to our hotels or to persons at our hotels. Claims, whether or not they have merit, could harm the reputation of a hotel or cause us to incur expenses to the extent of insurance deductibles or losses in excess of policy limitations, which could harm our results of operations. In the event of a catastrophic loss, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover the full current market value or replacement cost of our lost investment. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. In that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. In the event of a significant loss, our deductible may be high and we may be required to pay for all such repairs and, as a consequence, it could materially adversely affect our financial condition. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors might also keep us from using insurance proceeds to replace or renovate a hotel after it has been damaged or destroyed. Under those circumstances, the insurance proceeds we receive might be inadequate to restore our economic position on the damaged or destroyed property. Since September 11, 2001, it has generally become more difficult and expensive to obtain property and casualty insurance, including coverage for terrorism. When our current insurance policies expire, we may encounter difficulty in obtaining or renewing property or casualty insurance on our properties at the same levels of coverage and under similar terms. Such insurance may be more limited and for some catastrophic risks (e.g., earthquake, hurricane, flood and terrorism) may not be generally available at current levels. Even if we are able to renew our policies or to obtain new policies at levels and with limitations consistent with our current policies, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain such insurance at premium rates that are commercially reasonable. If we were unable to obtain adequate insurance on our properties for certain risks, it could cause us to be in default under specific covenants on certain of our indebtedness or other contractual commitments that require us to maintain adequate insurance on our properties to protect against the risk of loss. If this were to occur, or if we were unable to obtain adequate insurance and our properties experienced damage which would otherwise have been covered by insurance, it could materially adversely affect our financial condition and the operations of our properties. 27 Table of Contents In addition, insurance coverage for our hotel properties and for casualty losses does not customarily cover damages that are characterized as punitive or similar damages. As a result, any claims or legal proceedings, or settlement of any such claims or legal proceedings that result in damages that are characterized as punitive or similar damages may not be covered by our insurance. If these types of damages are substantial, our financial resources may be adversely affected. Environmental and other governmental laws and regulations could increase our compliance costs and liabilities and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our hotel properties are subject to various federal, state and local laws relating to the environment, fire and safety and access and use by disabled persons. Under these laws, courts and government agencies have the authority to require us, if we are the owner of a contaminated property, to clean up the property, even if we did not know of or were not responsible for the contamination. These laws also apply to persons who owned a property at the time it became contaminated. In addition to the costs of clean-up, environmental contamination can affect the value of a property and, therefore, an owner’s ability to borrow funds using the property as collateral or to sell the property. Under such environmental laws, courts and government agencies also have the authority to require that a person who sent waste to a waste disposal facility, such as a landfill or an incinerator, to pay for the clean-up of that facility if it becomes contaminated and threatens human health or the environment. Furthermore, various court decisions have established that third parties may recover damages for injury caused by property contamination. For instance, a person exposed to asbestos while staying in or working at a hotel may seek to recover damages for injuries suffered. Additionally, some of these environmental laws restrict the use of a property or place conditions on various activities. For example, some laws require a business using chemicals (such as swimming pool chemicals at a hotel) to manage them carefully and to notify local officials that the chemicals are being used. We could be responsible for the types of costs discussed above. The costs to clean up a contaminated property, to defend against a claim, or to comply with environmental laws could be material. Future laws or regulations may impose material environmental liabilities on us, or the current environmental condition of our hotel properties may be affected by the condition of the properties in the vicinity of our hotels (such as the presence of leaking underground storage tanks) or by third parties unrelated to us. Our hotel properties are also subject to the Americans with Disabilities Act. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act, all public accommodations must meet various federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Compliance with the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act could require removal of access barriers and non-compliance could result in the U.S. government imposing fines or in private litigants’ winning damages. If we are required to make substantial modifications to our hotels, whether to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act or other changes in governmental rules and regulations, our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In addition, we are required to operate our hotel properties and laundry facilities in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental agencies and become applicable to our properties. Claims of illness or injury associated with the service of food and beverage to the public could adversely affect us. Claims of illness or injury relating to food quality or food handling are common in the food and beverage business, and a number of these claims may exist at any given time. As a result, we could be adversely affected by negative publicity resulting from food quality or handling claims at one or more of the restaurants, bars or other food and beverage venues that we operate. In addition to decreasing sales and profitability at these restaurants, bars or other food and beverage venues, adverse publicity could negatively impact our reputation, hindering our ability to renew contracts on favorable terms or to obtain new business. Our hotels may be faced with labor disputes or, upon expiration of a collective bargaining agreement, a strike, which would adversely affect the operation of our hotels. We rely heavily on our employees to provide high-quality personal service at our hotels and any labor dispute or stoppage caused by poor relations with a labor union or the hotels’ employees could adversely affect our ability to provide those services, which could reduce occupancy and room revenue, tarnish our reputation and hurt our results of operations. Most of our employees who work at Ames, Morgans, Royalton, Hudson, Mondrian SoHo and Clift are members of local labor unions. Additionally, a majority of our employees employed through TLG are members of local labor unions. Our relationship with our employees or the union could deteriorate due to disputes relating to, among other things, wage or benefit levels or management responses to various economic and industry conditions. The collective bargaining agreement governing the terms of employment for employees working in our New York City hotels expires on June 30, 2019. The collective bargaining agreement with the unions representing the majority of the Clift employees expires in August 2013. Labor agreements with unions representing the majority of our TLG employees expired in 2012. Labor agreements with unions representing our Ames employees expired in February 2013. In all instances when the labor agreements have expired, we continue to follow the terms of the existing contract while negotiations with the respective labor unions continue. 28 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Organization and Corporate Structure Morgans Hotel Group Co. is a holding company with no operations. Morgans Hotel Group Co. is a holding company and we conduct all of our operations through our subsidiaries. Morgans Hotel Group Co. does not have, apart from its ownership of Morgans Group, any independent operations. As a result and although we have no current plan to do so, we would rely on dividends and other payments or distributions from Morgans Group and our other subsidiaries to pay dividends on our common stock. We also rely on dividends and other payments or distributions from Morgans Group and our other subsidiaries to meet our debt service and other obligations, including our obligations in respect of our trust preferred notes, Convertible Notes and Series A preferred securities. The ability of Morgans Group and our other subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments or distributions to us will depend on Morgans Group’s operating results. In addition, because Morgans Hotel Group Co. is a holding company, claims of our stockholders will be structurally subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and obligations (whether or not for borrowed money) of our subsidiaries. Therefore, in the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization, our assets and those of our subsidiaries will be able to satisfy the claims of our stockholders only after all of our and our subsidiaries’ liabilities and obligations have been paid in full. Substantially all of our businesses are held through our direct subsidiary, Morgans Group. Other than with respect to 954,065 membership units held by affiliates of NorthStar Capital Investment Corp. and LTIP Units convertible into membership units issued as part of our employee compensation plans, we own all of the outstanding membership units of Morgans Group. We may, in connection with acquisitions or otherwise, issue additional membership units of Morgans Group in the future. Such issuances would reduce our ownership of Morgans Group. Because our stockholders do not directly own Morgans Group units, they do not have any voting rights with respect to any such issuances or other corporate level activities of Morgans Group. Provisions in our charter documents, Delaware law and our rights plan could discourage potential acquisition proposals, could delay, deter or prevent a change in control and could limit the price certain investors might be willing to pay for our stock. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may inhibit changes in control of our Company not approved by our Board of Directors or changes in the composition of our Board of Directors, which could result in the entrenchment of current management. These provisions include: • a prohibition on stockholder action through written consents; • a requirement that special meetings of stockholders be called by the Board of Directors; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations; • limitations on the ability of stockholders to amend, alter or repeal the bylaws; and • the authority of the Board of Directors to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as the Board of Directors may determine and additional shares of our common stock. We are also afforded the protections of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prevents us from engaging in a business combination with a person who becomes a 15% or greater stockholder for a period of three years from the date such person acquires such status unless certain Board of Directors or stockholder approvals are obtained. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. In addition, our Board of Directors has adopted a stockholder protection rights plan which may deter certain takeover tactics. 29 Table of Contents The Yucaipa Investors, who own our Series A preferred securities, warrants to purchase our common stock, and a substantial amount of our 2.375% Senior Subordinated Convertible Notes, may have interests that are not aligned with yours and will have substantial influence over the vote on key matters requiring stockholder approval. As of December 31, 2012, the Yucaipa Investors had 12,500,000 warrants to purchase shares of our common stock issued in connection with their investment in 75,000 share of our Series A preferred securities and owned $88.0 million of our Convertible Notes. In addition, the Yucaipa Investors have consent rights over certain transactions for so long as they collectively own or have the right to purchase through exercise of the warrants 6,250,000 shares of our common stock, including, subject to certain exceptions and limitations: • the sale of all or substantially all of our assets to a third party; • the acquisition (including by merger, consolidation or other business combination) by us of a third party where the equity investment by us is $100 million or greater; • our acquisition by a third party; or • any change in the size of our Board of Directors to a number below 7 or above 9. For so long as the Yucaipa Investors collectively own at least a majority of the outstanding Series A preferred securities, they also have consent rights, subject to certain exceptions and limitations, over the sale of all or substantially all of our assets and certain other transactions where a vote of the holders of the Series A preferred securities is required by law or our certificate of incorporation. For so long as the Yucaipa Investors collectively own or have the right to purchase through exercise of the warrants (assuming a cash exercise of such warrants) 875,000 shares of our common stock, we have agreed to use our reasonable best efforts to cause our Board of Directors to nominate and recommend to our stockholders the election of a person nominated by the Yucaipa Investors as a director and to use our reasonable best efforts to ensure that the Yucaipa Investors’ nominee is elected to our Board of Directors at each such meeting. Accordingly, the Yucaipa Investors have substantial control rights over our business and may be able to decide the outcome of key corporate decisions. The interests of the Yucaipa Investors may differ from the interests of our other stockholders, and they may cause us to take or not take certain actions with which you may disagree. Third parties may be discouraged from making a tender offer or bid to acquire us because of this concentration of ownership, and we may have more difficulty raising equity or debt financing due to the Yucaipa Investors’ significant ownership and ability to influence certain decisions. Payment of dividends on our Series A preferred securities and any redemptions of warrants may negatively impact our cash flow and the value of our common stock. On October 15, 2009 we issued 75,000 shares of Series A preferred securities to the Yucaipa Investors. The holders of such Series A preferred securities are entitled to cumulative cash dividends, payable in arrears on every three-month anniversary following the original date of issuance if such dividends are declared by the Board of Directors or an authorized committee thereof, at a rate of 8% until October 2014, 10% per year until October 2016, and 20% per year thereafter. In addition, should the Yucaipa Investors’ nominee fail to be elected to our Board of Directors, the dividend rate would increase by 4% during any time that the Yucaipa Investors’ nominee is not a director. We have the option to accrue any and all dividend payments. As of December 31, 2012, we have not declared or paid any dividends. The accrual of these dividends may have a negative impact on the value of our common stock. In addition, the payment of these dividends may limit our ability to grow and compete by reducing our ability to use capital for other business and operational needs. We have the option to redeem any or all of the Series A preferred securities at any time. While we do not anticipate redeeming any or all of the Series A preferred securities in the near-term, we may want to redeem them in the future prior to the escalation in dividend rate to 20% in October 2016. Our working capital and liquidity reserves may not be adequate to cover these redemption payments should we elect to redeem these securities, which would place pressure on us to find outside sources of financing that may or may not be available. 30 Table of Contents Our basis in our Owned Hotels is generally substantially less than their fair market value which will decrease the amount of our depreciation deductions and increase the amount of recognized gain upon sale. Some of the hotels which were part of our formation and structuring transactions were contributed to us in tax-free transactions. Accordingly, our tax basis in the assets contributed was not adjusted in connection with our IPO and is generally substantially less than the fair market value of the contributed hotels as of the date of our IPO. We also intend to generally use the “traditional” method for making allocations under Section 704(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, as opposed to the “curative” or “remedial” method for making such allocations. Consequently, (i) our depreciation deductions with respect to our hotels will likely be substantially less than the depreciation deductions that would have been available to us had our tax basis been equal to the fair market value of the hotels as of the date of our IPO, (ii) we may recognize gain upon the sale of an asset that is attributable to appreciation in the value of the asset that accrued prior to the date of our IPO, and (iii) we may utilize available net operating losses against the potential gain from the sale of an asset. The change of control rules under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code may limit our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to reduce future taxable income. We have net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards for federal and state income tax purposes. Generally, NOL carryforwards can be used to reduce future taxable income. Our use of our NOL carryforwards will be limited, however, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”) if we undergo a change in ownership of more than 50% of our capital stock over a three-year period as measured under Section 382 of the Code. These complex change of ownership rules generally focus on ownership changes involving stockholders owning directly or indirectly 5% or more of our stock, including certain public “groups” of stockholders as set forth under Section 382 of the Code, including those arising from new stock issuances and other equity transactions. We believe we experienced an ownership change for these purposes in April 2008, but that the resulting annual limit on our NOL carryforwards did not affect our ability to use the NOL carryforwards that we had at the time of that ownership change. Our stock is actively traded and it is possible that we will experience another ownership change within the meaning of Section 382 of the Code, measured for this purpose by including transfers and issuances of stock that took place after the ownership change that we believe occurred in April 2008. If we experienced another ownership change, the resulting annual limit on the use of our NOL carryforwards (which would equal the product of the applicable federal long-term tax-exempt rate, multiplied by the value of our capital stock immediately before the ownership change, then increased by certain existing gains recognized within 5 years after the ownership change if we have a net built-in gain in our assets at the time of the ownership change) could result in a meaningful increase in our federal and state income tax liability in future years. Whether an ownership change occurs by reason of public trading in our stock is not within our control and the determination of whether an ownership change has occurred is complex. No assurance can be given that we have not already undergone, or that we will not in the future undergo, another ownership change that would have a significant adverse effect on the value of our stock. In addition, the possibility of causing an ownership change may reduce our willingness to issue new stock to raise capital. Non-U.S. holders owning more than 5% of our common stock may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on gain recognized on the disposition of our common stock. Because of our significant U.S. real estate holdings, we believe that we are a “United States real property holding corporation” as defined under Section 897 of the Internal Revenue Code. As a result, any “non-U.S. holder” (as defined in the applicable tax provisions) will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on gain recognized on a disposition of our common stock if such non-U.S. holder has held, directly or indirectly, 5% of our common stock at any time during the five-year period ending on the date of the disposition and such non-U.S. holder is not eligible for any treaty exemption. Changes in market conditions or sales of our common stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. In addition to the possibility that we may sell shares of our common stock in a public offering at any time, we also may issue shares of common stock in connection with the warrants we issued to the Yucaipa Investors and their affiliates, our Convertible Notes, grants of restricted stock or LTIP Units or upon exercise of stock options that we grant to our directors, officers and employees. All of these shares may be available for sale in the public markets from time to time. As of December 31, 2012, there were: • up to 12,500,000 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants we issued to the Yucaipa Investors at an exercise price of $6.00 per share. The closing stock price at December 31, 2012 was $5.54; • 7,858,755 shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes assuming a conversion rate of 45.5580 shares per $1,000 principal amount of the Convertible Notes, representing a conversion price of approximately $21.95 per share of common stock, which is substantially higher than the closing price of $5.54 per share of our common stock as of December 31, 2012; 31 Table of Contents • 1,924,740 shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding options, of which options to purchase 1,458,074 shares were exercisable, at a weighted average exercise price of $15.79 per share. As of December 31, 2012, all of these options had exercise prices exceeding our stock price; • 977,301 LTIP Units outstanding exercisable for a total of 977,301 shares of our common stock; • 425,235 restricted stock units and 164,555 LTIP Units outstanding and subject to vesting requirements for a total of 589,790 shares of our common stock; and • up to 4,457,779 shares of our common stock available for future grants under our equity incentive plans. In addition, outperformance long-term incentive units (“OPP LTIP Units”) have been issued to our named executive officers. The OPP LTIP Units are a new series of long-term incentive units (membership interests) in Morgans Group LLC and are subject to vesting on the third anniversary of the grant date, which is March 20, 2011 (or earlier in the event of a change of control) and the achievement of certain performance targets (based on stock price appreciation plus dividends). See note 10 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report for more information. Most of the outstanding shares of our common stock are eligible for resale in the public market and certain holders of our shares have the right to require us to file a registration statement for purposes of registering their shares for resale. A significant portion of these shares is held by a small number of stockholders. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline, which may make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. We are unable to predict the effect that sales of our common stock may have on the prevailing market price of our common stock. Transactions relating to our convertible note hedge and warrant transactions may affect the trading price of our common stock. In connection with the issuance of the Convertible Notes, we have entered into convertible note hedge and warrant transactions with affiliates of certain of the initial purchasers, which we refer to as the counterparties. Pursuant to the convertible note hedge, we have purchased from the counterparties a call option on our common stock, and pursuant to the warrant transaction, we have sold to the counterparties a warrant for the purchase of shares of our common stock. The warrant has an exercise price that is 82.2% higher than the closing price of our common stock on the date of the pricing of the Convertible Notes. Together, the convertible note hedge and warrant transactions are expected to provide us with some protection against increases in our stock price over the conversion price per share and, accordingly, reduce our exposure to potential dilution upon the conversion of the Convertible Notes. We used an aggregate of approximately $21.0 million of the net proceeds of the offering of the Convertible Notes to fund the net cost of these hedging transactions. In connection with these transactions, the counterparties to these transactions: • entered into various over-the-counter derivative transactions or purchased or sold our common stock in secondary market transactions at or about the time of the pricing of the Convertible Notes; and • may enter into, or may unwind, various over-the-counter derivatives or purchase or sell our common stock in secondary market transactions following the pricing of the Convertible Notes, including during any conversion reference period with respect to a conversion of Convertible Notes. These activities may have the effect of increasing, or preventing a decline in, the market price of our common stock. In addition, any hedging transactions by the counterparties following the pricing of the Convertible Notes, including during any conversion reference period, may have an adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. The counterparties are likely to modify their hedge positions from time to time prior to conversion or maturity of the Convertible Notes by purchasing and selling shares of our common stock or other instruments, including over-the-counter derivative instruments, that they may wish to use in connection with such hedging. In particular, such hedging modifications may occur during a conversion reference period. In addition, we intend to exercise our purchased call option whenever Convertible Notes are converted, although we are not required to do so. In order to unwind any hedge positions with respect to our exercise of the purchased call option, the counterparties would expect to sell shares of common stock in secondary market transactions or unwind various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to the common stock during the conversion reference period for the converted Convertible Notes. The effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock will depend in part on current market conditions and therefore cannot be ascertained at this time. However, any of these activities could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. 32 Table of Contents Our stock price has been and continues to be volatile. The stock markets have, in the past, experienced extreme price fluctuations. These fluctuations have not always been related to the operating performance of the specific companies whose stock is traded. During the recent global economic downturn and thereafter, our stock price has been extremely volatile. Our stock price may continue to fluctuate as a result of various factors, such as: • general industry and economic conditions, such as the lingering effects of the recent global economic downturn; • general stock market volatility unrelated to our operating performance; • announcements relating to significant corporate transactions; • fluctuations in our quarterly and annual financial results; • operating and stock price performance of companies that investors deem comparable to us; • changes in government regulation or proposals relating thereto; and • sales or the expectation of sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 33 Table of Contents 