ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating our business and us. The factors listed below represent certain important factors that we believe could cause our business results to differ. These factors are not intended to represent a complete list of the general or specific risks that may affect us. It should be recognized that other risks may be significant, presently or in the future, and the risks set forth below may affect us to a greater extent than indicated. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. You should also consider the other information included in this annual report and subsequent quarterly reports filed with the SEC. 12 Risk Factors We incurred a loss in 2011. We had an accumulated deficit of $11,276,572 at December 31, 2011, which reflects our net loss of $3,962,246 and $6,544,525 for 2011 and 2010, respectively, as noted in our audited consolidated financial statements. At December 31, 2011, we had working capital of approximately $10.5 million. We have implemented several initiatives intended to improve our revenues and reduce our operating costs with a goal of restoring profitability. If we are unsuccessful in this regard, it will have a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, operating results and financial condition. Our credit facility We borrowed $2.5 million under two subordinated promissory notes during 2011, which provided the funds necessary to pay off our maturing bank line of credit and to fund our operating needs. The subordinated promissory notes require monthly interest-only payments until their maturity date in May 2013. We have no revolving credit facility to fund our operating needs should it become necessary. It will be difficult to obtain an institutional line of credit facility given our recent operating losses and the current banking environment, which may adversely affect our ability to finance our business, grow or be profitable. Further, any new credit facility may not be on terms favorable to us. If we are unable to manage our current business activities, our prospects may be limited and our future profitability may be adversely affected. We experienced rapid expansion in business through 2008 followed by a decline in our operating results from 2009 to 2011. Our revenue level has proven to be unpredictable, which poses significant burdens on us to be pro-active in managing production, personnel levels and related costs. We expanded our production capabilities and capacity significantly to handle anticipated new products in 2009 and 2010, which strained our managerial, financial and other resources when revenues unexpectedly declined during the same time period. We will need to improve our revenues, operations, financial and other internal systems to manage our business effectively, and any failure to do so may lead to inefficiencies and redundancies which reduce our prospects to return to profitability. There are risks related to dealing with domestic governmental entities as customers. One of the principal target markets for our products is the law enforcement community. In this market, the sale of products will be subject to budget constraints of governmental agencies purchasing these products, which could result in a significant reduction in our anticipated revenues. Such governmental agencies are currently experiencing budgetary pressures as a result of the recession and its impact on local sales, property and income taxes that provide funding for purchasing our products. These agencies also may experience political pressure that dictates the manner in which they spend money. As a result, even if an agency wants to acquire our products, it may be unable to purchase them due to budgetary or political constraints. We cannot assure investors that such governmental agencies will have the necessary funds to purchase our products even though they may want to do so. Further, even if such agencies have the necessary funds, we may experience delays and relatively long sales cycles due to their internal decision making policies and procedures. There are risks related to dealing with foreign governmental entities as customers. We target the law enforcement community in foreign countries for the sale of many of our products. While foreign countries vary, generally the sale of our products will be subject to political and budgetary constraints of foreign governments and agencies purchasing these products, which could result in a significant reduction in our anticipated revenues. Many foreign governments are experiencing budgetary pressures as a result of the global recession and its impact on taxes and tariffs that in many cases provide funding for purchasing our products. Law enforcement agencies within these countries also may experience political pressure that dictates the manner in which they spend money. As a result, even if a foreign country or its’ law enforcement agencies want to acquire our products, it may be unable to purchase them due to budgetary or political constraints. We cannot assure investors that such governmental agencies will have the necessary funds to purchase our products even though they may want to do so. Further, even if such agencies have the necessary funds, we may experience delays and relatively long sales cycles due to their internal decision making policies and procedures. 13 International law enforcement and other agencies that may consider using our products must analyze a wide range of issues before committing to purchase products like ours, including training costs, product reliability and budgetary constraints. The length of our sales cycle may range from a few months to a year or more. We may incur substantial selling costs and expend significant effort in connection with the evaluation of our products by potential customers before they place an order. Initial orders by foreign governments and agencies typically are for a small number of units that are used to evaluate the products. If these potential customers do not purchase our products, we will have expended significant resources and receive no revenue in return. In addition, we may be selected as the vendor of choice by these foreign customers but never receive the funding necessary to purchase our product due to political or economic reasons. We are marketing our new event recorder products (DVM-250 and DVM-250 Plus) to commercial fleet customers, which is a new sales channel for us and we may experience problems in gaining acceptance. The principal target market for our event recorder products is commercial fleet operators, such as taxi cabs, limousine services, transit buses, ambulance services and a variety of delivery services. This is a new sales channel for us and we may experience difficulty gaining acceptance of our new products by the targeted customers. Our sales of such products will be subject to budget constraints of both the large and small prospective customers, which could result in a significant reduction in our anticipated revenues. Certain of such companies are experiencing budgetary and financial pressures as a result of the recession and slow recovery and their impact on their revenues, all of which may negatively impact their ability to purchase our products. As a result, even if prospective customers want to acquire our products, they may be unable to do so because of such factors. Further, even if such companies have the necessary funds, we may experience delays and relatively long sales cycles due to their internal decision making policies and procedures. The current economic downturn has depressed state and local tax revenues from sales, use, income and property tax sources. The reduction in such revenues has reduced funding to law enforcement agencies that represent our primary customers. The national economy has been in a deep recession and slow recovery, resulting in lower tax collections by state and local taxing authorities. Law enforcement agencies rely on funding from state and local tax sources to purchase our products. These factors have decreased our primary customers’ ability to purchase our systems unless they can find other sources of funding to cover the shortfall. While we hoped that the Economic Stimulus Act of 2009 would provide a source of alternative funding, the amount, timing and use of such alternative funding by our prospective customers have been uncertain. We cannot assure investors that such law enforcement agencies will have the necessary funds to purchase our products even though they may want to do so. We are operating in a developing market and there is uncertainty as to market acceptance of our technology and products. The markets for our new and enhanced products and technology are developing and rapidly evolving. They are characterized by an increasing number of market entrants who have developed or are developing a wide variety of products and technologies, a number of which offer certain of the features that our products offer. Because of these factors, demand and market acceptance for new products are subject to a high level of uncertainty. There can be no assurance that our technology and products will become widely accepted. It is also difficult to predict with any assurance the future growth rate, if any, and size of the market. If a substantial market fails to develop, develops more slowly than expected or becomes saturated with competitors or if our products do not achieve or continue to achieve market acceptance, our business, operating results and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. Our technology may also be marketed and licensed to device manufacturers for inclusion in the products and equipment they market and sell as an embedded solution. As with other new products and technologies designed to enhance or replace existing products or technologies or change product designs, these potential partners may be reluctant to integrate our digital video recording technology into their systems unless the technology and products are proven to be both reliable and available at a competitive price. Even assuming product acceptance, our potential partners may be required to redesign their systems to effectively use our digital video recording technology. The time and costs necessary for such redesign could delay or prevent market acceptance of our technology and products. A lack of, or delay in, market acceptance of our digital video recording technology and products would adversely affect our operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to market our technology and products successfully or that any of our technology or products will be accepted in the marketplace. 14 We expend significant resources in anticipation of a sale due to our lengthy sales cycle and may receive no revenue in return. Generally, law enforcement and other agencies and commercial fleet and mass transit operators that may consider using our products must analyze a wide range of issues before committing to purchase products like ours, including training costs, product reliability and budgetary constraints. The length of our sales cycle may range from sixty days to a year or more. We may incur substantial selling costs and expend significant effort in connection with the evaluation of our products by potential customers before they place an order. Initial orders by agencies typically are for a small number of units that are used to evaluate the products. If these potential customers do not purchase our products, we will have expended significant resources and have received no revenue in return. Our market is characterized by new products and rapid technological change. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology and frequent new product introductions. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to enhance our existing technologies and products and to introduce new products and technologies to meet changing customer requirements. We are currently devoting, and intend to continue to devote, significant resources toward the development of new digital video recording technology and products both as stand-alone products and embedded solutions in third party products and systems. There can be no assurance that we will successfully complete the development of these technologies and related products in a timely fashion or that our current or future products will satisfy the needs of the digital video recording market. There can also be no assurance that digital video recording products and technologies developed by others will not adversely affect our competitive position or render our products or technologies non-competitive or obsolete. We substantially depend on sales from our in-car video products and if these products become obsolete or not widely accepted, our growth prospects will be diminished. We have historically derived our revenues predominantly from sales of our in-car video systems, including the DVM-500 series and DVM-750 digital video rear view mirrors and accessories, and we expect to continue to depend on sales of these products during 2012. However, we introduced several new products in 2011 and we intend to introduce new products during 2012 with a view to diversifying our revenue sources in the future. A decrease in the prices of, or the demand for our in-car video products, or the failure to achieve broad market acceptance of our new product offerings, would significantly harm our growth prospects, operating results and financial condition. We substantially depend on our research and development activities to design new products and upgrades to existing products and if these products are not widely accepted, or we encounter difficulties and delays in launching these new products, our growth prospects will be diminished. We have a number of active research and development projects underway at the current time that are intended to launch new products or upgrades to existing products. We may incur substantial costs and/or delays in completion of these activities that may not result in viable products or may not be received well by our potential customers. We incurred $2,773,962 and $3,437,959 in research and development expenses during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, which represent a substantial expense compared to our total revenues and net income (loss). If we are unsuccessful in bringing these products from the engineering prototype phase to commercial production, we could incur additional expenses (in addition to those already spent) without receiving revenues from the new products. Also, these new products may fail to achieve broad market acceptance and may not generate revenue to cover expenses incurred to design, develop, produce and market the new product offerings. Substantial delays in the launch of one or more products could negatively impacted our revenues and increase our costs, which could significantly harm our growth prospects, operating results and financial condition. 15 If we are unable to compete in our market, you may lose all or part of your investment. Our market is highly competitive and highly fragmented. The law enforcement and security surveillance markets are extremely competitive. Competitive factors in these industries include ease of use, quality, portability, versatility, reliability, accuracy, cost and other factors. Our primary competitors include: L-3 Mobile-Vision, Inc., Watchguard, Kustom Signals, International Police Technologies, Inc. and a number of other competitors who sell or may in the future sell in-car video systems to law enforcement agencies. There are direct competitors who have competitive technology and products for all of our products. Many of these competitors have significant advantages over us, including greater financial, technical, marketing and manufacturing resources, more extensive distribution channels, larger customer bases and faster response times to adapt new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. As a result, our competitors may develop superior products or beat us to market with products similar to ours. Further, there can be no assurance that new companies will not enter our markets in the future and we expect to encounter new competitors as we develop and market new products. Although we believe that our products will be distinguishable from those of our competitors on the basis of their technological features and functionality at an attractive value proposition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to penetrate any of our anticipated competitors’ portions of the market. Many of our anticipated competitors may have existing relationships with equipment or device manufacturers that may impede our ability to market our technology to those potential customers and build market share. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are not successful in competing against our current and future competitors, you could lose your entire investment. See “Description of Business - Competition.” Defects in our products could impair our ability to sell our products or could result in litigation and other significant costs. Any significant defects in our products may result in, among other things, delay in time-to-market, loss of market acceptance and sales of our products, diversion of development resources, and injury to our reputation, or increased warranty costs. Because our products are technologically complex, they may contain defects that cannot be detected prior to shipment. These defects could harm our reputation and impair our ability to sell our products. The costs we may incur in correcting any product defects may be substantial and could decrease our profit margins. Additionally, errors, defects or other performance problems could result in financial or other damages to our customers, which could result in litigation. Product liability litigation, even if we prevail, would be time consuming and costly to defend. Our product liability insurance may not be adequate to cover claims. Our product liability insurance coverage per occurrence is $1,000,000, with a $2,000,000 aggregate for our general business liability coverage and an additional $1,000,000 per occurrence. Our excess or umbrella liability coverage per occurrence and in aggregate is $5,000,000. Product defects can be caused by design errors, programming bugs, or defects in component parts or raw materials. This is common to every product manufactured which is based on modern electronic and computer technology. Because of the extreme complexity of digital in-car video systems, one of the key concerns is operating software robustness. Some of the software modules are provided to us by outside vendors under license agreements, while other portions are developed by our own software engineers. As with any software-dependant product, “bugs” can occur, even with rigorous testing before release of the product. The software included in our digital video rear view mirror and digital video flashlight products is designed to be “field upgradeable” so that changes or fixes can be made by the end user by downloading new software through the internet. We intend to incorporate this technology into any future products as well, providing a quick resolution to potential software issues that may arise over time. As with all electronic devices, hardware issues can arise from many sources. The component electronic parts we utilize come from many sources around the world. We attempt to mitigate the possibility of shipping defective products by fully testing sub-assemblies and thoroughly testing assembled units before they are shipped out to our customers. Because of the nature and complexity of some of the electronic components used, such as microprocessor chips, memory systems, and zoom video camera modules, it is not technically or financially realistic to attempt to test every single aspect of every single component and their potential interactions. By using components from reputable and reliable sources, and by using professional engineering, assembly, and testing methods, we seek to limit the possibility of defects slipping through. In addition to internal testing, we now have thousands of units in the hands of police departments and in use every day. Over the past years of field use we have addressed a number of subtle issues and made refinements requested by the end-user. 16 We are dependent on key personnel. Our success will be largely dependent upon the efforts of our executive officers, Stanton E. Ross, Thomas J. Heckman and Steven Phillips. We do not have employment agreements with Messrs. Ross, Heckman or Phillips. The loss of the services of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain the services of such individuals in the future. We have not obtained key-man life insurance policies on these individuals. We are also dependent to a substantial degree on our technical and development staff. Our success will be dependent upon our ability to hire and retain additional qualified technical, research, management, marketing and financial personnel. We will compete with other companies with greater financial and other resources for such personnel. Although we have not experienced difficulty in attracting qualified personnel to date, there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our present personnel or acquire additional qualified personnel as and when needed. We rely on third party distributors and representatives for our marketing capability. Our distribution strategy is to pursue sales through multiple channels with an emphasis on independent distributors and representatives. Our inability to recruit and retain distributors and representatives who can successfully sell our products would adversely affect our sales. In addition, our arrangements with our distributors and representatives are generally short-term. If we do not competitively price our products, meet the requirements of our distributors and representatives or end-users, provide adequate marketing and technical support, or comply with the terms of our distribution arrangements, our distributors and representatives may fail to aggressively market our products or may terminate their relationships with us. These developments would likely have a material adverse effect on our sales. Our reliance on the sales of products by others also makes it more difficult to predict our revenues, cash flow and operating results. We are dependent on manufacturers and suppliers. We purchase, and intend to continue to purchase, substantially all of the components for our products and some entire products, from a limited number of manufacturers and suppliers, certain of whom are located outside the United States. Our internal process is principally to assemble the various components and subassemblies manufactured by our suppliers and test the assembled product prior to shipping to our customers. We do not intend to directly manufacture any of the equipment or parts to be used in our products. Our reliance upon outside manufacturers and suppliers, including foreign suppliers, is expected to continue, increase in scope and involves several risks, including limited control over the availability of components, and products themselves and related delivery schedules, pricing and product quality. We may experience delays, additional expenses and lost sales if we are required to locate and qualify alternative manufacturers and suppliers. A few of the semiconductor chip components for our products are produced by a very small number of specialized manufacturers. Currently, we purchase one essential semiconductor chip from a single manufacturer. While we believe that there are alternative sources of supply, if, for any reason, we are precluded from obtaining such a semiconductor chip from this manufacturer, we may experience long delays in product delivery due to the difficulty and complexity involved in producing the required component and we may also be required to pay higher costs for our components. While we do the final assembly, testing, packaging, and shipment of certain of our products in-house, a number of our component parts are manufactured by subcontractors. These subcontractors include: raw circuit board manufacturers, circuit board assembly houses, injection plastic molders, metal parts fabricators, and other custom component providers. While we are dependent upon these subcontractors to the extent that they are producing custom subassemblies and components necessary for manufacturing our products, we still own the designs and intellectual property involved. This means that the failure of any one contractor to perform may cause delays in production. However, we can mitigate potential interruptions by maintaining “buffer stocks” of critical parts and subassemblies and by using multiple sources for critical components. We also have the ability to move our subcontracting to alternate providers. Being forced to use a different subcontractor could cause production interruptions ranging from negligible, such as a few weeks, to very costly, such as four to six months. Further, the failure of a foreign manufacturer to deliver products to us timely, in sufficient quantities and with the requisite quality would have as material adverse impact on our business, operations and financial condition. 17 The only component group that would require a complete redesign of our digital video electronics package is the Texas Instruments chips. While there are competitive products available, each chip has unique characteristics that would require extensive tailoring of product designs to use it. The Texas Instrument chips are the heart of our video processing system. If Texas Instruments became unwilling or unable to provide us with these chips, we would be forced to redesign our digital video encoder and decoder systems. Such a complete redesign could take substantial time (i.e. over six months) to complete. We attempt to mitigate the potential for interruption by maintaining continuous stocks of these chips to support several months’ worth of production. In addition, we regularly check on the end-of-life status of these parts to make sure that we will know well in advance of any decisions by Texas Instruments to discontinue these parts. There are other semiconductors that are integral to our product design and which could cause delays if discontinued, but not to the same scale as the Texas Instrument chips. We are uncertain of our ability to protect technology through patents. Our ability to compete effectively will depend on our success in protecting our proprietary technology, both in the United States and abroad. We have filed for patent protection in the United States and certain other countries to cover certain design aspects of our products. We license the critical technology on which our products are based from Sasken-Ingenient, Inc., and Nuvation pursuant to license agreements. However, the technology licensed from these parties is critical because it is the basis of our current product design. We may choose to use other video encoding and decoding technology in future products, thus lessening our dependence on our licenses with these companies. Our patent applications are under review by the U.S. Patent Office and therefore we have not been issued any patents in the United States. No assurance can be given that any patents relating to our existing technology will be issued from the United States or any foreign patent offices, that we will receive any patents in the future based on our continued development of our technology, or that our patent protection within and/or outside of the United States will be sufficient to deter others, legally or otherwise, from developing or marketing competitive products utilizing our technologies. If our patents were to be denied as filed, we would seek to obtain different patents for other parts of our technology. If our main patent, which relates to the placement of the in-car video system in a rear view mirror, is denied, it could potentially allow our competitors to build very similar devices. However, we believe that very few of our competitors would be capable of this because of the level of technical sophistication and level of miniaturization required. Even if we obtain patents, there can be no assurance that they will be enforceable to prevent others from developing and marketing competitive products or methods. If we bring an infringement action relating to any future patents, it may require the diversion of substantial funds from our operations and may require management to expend efforts that might otherwise be devoted to our operations. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in enforcing our patent rights. Further, if any patents are issued there can be no assurance that patent infringement claims in the United States or in other countries will not be asserted against us by a competitor or others, or if asserted, that we will be successful in defending against such claims. If one of our products is adjudged to infringe patents of others with the likely consequence of a damage award, we may be enjoined from using and selling such product or be required to obtain a royalty-bearing license, if available on acceptable terms. Alternatively, if a license is not offered, we might be required, if possible, to redesign those aspects of the product held to infringe so as to avoid infringement liability. Any redesign efforts we undertake might be expensive, could delay the introduction or the re-introduction of our products into certain markets, or may be so significant as to be impractical. We are uncertain of our ability to protect our proprietary technology and information. In addition to seeking patent protection, we rely on trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological advancement to seek to achieve and thereafter maintain a competitive advantage. Although we have entered into or intend to enter into confidentiality and invention agreements with our employees, consultants and advisors, no assurance can be given that such agreements will be honored or that we will be able to effectively protect our rights to our unpatented trade secrets and know-how. Moreover, no assurance can be given that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets and know-how. 18 Foreign currency fluctuations may affect our competitiveness and sales in foreign markets. The relative change in currency values creates fluctuations in our product pricing for potential international customers. These changes in foreign end-user costs may result in lost orders and reduce the competitiveness of our products in certain foreign markets. These changes may also negatively affect the financial condition of some existing or potential foreign customers and reduce or eliminate their future orders of our products. We also import selected components which are used in the manufacturing of some of our products. Although our purchase orders are in the United States dollar, weakness in the United States dollar could lead to price increases for the components. Risks related to our license arrangements. We have licensing agreements with Sasken-Ingenient and Nuvation regarding certain software used as the platform for the proprietary software we have developed for use in our products. These licensing agreements have specified terms and are renewable on an annual basis unless both parties determine not to renew them and provided the parties are in compliance with the agreements. If we fail to make the payments under these licenses or if these licenses are not renewed for any reason, it would cause us significant time and expense to redevelop our software on a different software platform, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks related to our supply and distribution arrangement. We have a supply and distribution agreement with DragonEye Technology, LLC regarding the sale and distribution of our Laser Ally product. This vendor developed and is the only manufacturer of this product. The agreement has specified terms and requires us to purchase minimum quantities over a 42-month period ending February 2014. We have purchased approximately $1,510,000 of product under this agreement as of December 31, 2011 and we have remaining obligations to purchase approximately $1,945,000 through its expiration in February 2014. The agreement is renewable thereafter on an annual basis unless either of the parties determines not to renew it and provided the parties are in compliance with the agreements. The agreement is non-exclusive, which means that DragonEye could enter into supply and distribution or similar agreements with other parties for the product, which could not bear our “Laser Ally” name. We are relying on our sales distribution channel to market and sell a sufficient quantity of the product to existing and new customers in order to meet our purchase obligation under the agreement. It is likely that we will not be able to make the payments under the agreement, if we fail to do so. In addition, if this agreement is not renewed for any reason, it would cause us significant time and expense to redevelop or source a replacement for our Laser Ally product on a different software and hardware platform, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate unexpectedly from quarter to quarter, which may cause our stock price to decline. Our revenues and operating results have varied significantly in the past and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future due to various factors that are both in and outside our control. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful in the short-term, and our performance in a particular period may not be indicative of our performance in any future period. Coalitions of a few of our larger stockholders have sufficient voting power to make corporate governance decisions that could have significant effect on us and the other stockholders. Our officers, directors and principal stockholders (greater than five percent stockholders) together control approximately 28%, including options vested or to vest within sixty days, of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, will be able to exert a significant degree of influence over our management and affairs and over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in our control and might affect the market price of our common stock, even when a change in control may be in the best interest of all stockholders. Furthermore, the interests of this concentration of ownership may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders. Accordingly, these stockholders could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements that we would not otherwise consider. 19 We are a party to several lawsuits both as a plaintiff and as a defendant or counter defendant which we may ultimately not prevail resulting in losses and may cause our stock price to decline. We are involved as a plaintiff and defendant in routine litigation and administrative proceedings incidental to our business from time to time, including customer collections, vendor and employment-related matters. See “Litigation.” We believe that the likely outcome of any other pending cases and proceedings will not be material to our business or financial condition. However, there can be no assurance that we will prevail in the litigation or proceedings or that we may not have to pay damages or other awards to the other party. Risks Relating to our Common Stock The possible issuance of common stock subject to options may dilute the interest of stockholders. We have granted options to purchase a total of 4,045,305 shares of our common stock under our stock option and restricted stock plans which were outstanding and unexercised as of December 31, 2011. To the extent that outstanding stock options are exercised, dilution to the interests of our stockholders may occur. Moreover, the terms upon which we will be able to obtain additional equity capital may be adversely affected since the holders of the outstanding options can be expected to exercise them at a time when we would, in all likelihood, be able to obtain any needed capital on terms more favorable to us than those provided in such outstanding options. We have never paid dividends and have no plans to in the future. Holders of shares of our common stock are entitled to receive such dividends as may be declared by our board of directors. To date, we have paid no cash dividends on our shares of common stock and we do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain future earnings, if any, to provide funds for operation of our business. Therefore, any return investors in our common stock will have to be in the form of appreciation, if any, in the market value of their shares of common stock. We have additional securities available for issuance, which, if issued, could adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common stock. Our articles of incorporation authorize the issuance of 75,000,000 shares of our common stock. The common stock can be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval. Any future issuances of our common stock would further dilute the percentage ownership of us held by our public stockholders. An officer and directors have pledged shares of our common stock as collateral for personal loans. At December 31, 2011, Mr. Ross, our Our Chairman, President and CEO and one of our independent directors had pledged approximately 634,204 shares and 148,495 shares, respectively, of our common stock as collateral for their personal loans with financial institutions and other individuals. The creditors in both cases have contractual rights to foreclose upon and liquidate these pledged shares if either of the borrowers defaults on his loan. In such event, Mr. Ross and the outside director will have no control over the timing, amount and manner in which the creditor sells the pledged shares. On several occasions for each person in the past, certain of the secured creditors have exercised their rights and sold shares of our common stock pledged as collateral on such personal loans. In 2011 Enterprise Bank & Trust ("Enterprise Bank") , a creditor of Mr. Ross, commenced foreclosure proceeding and notified him that it intented to sell all or part of the pledged shares to help satisfy the obligation to it and sold shares. Mr. Ross contested such actions in court. Effective February 2012, Mr. Ross and Enterprise Bank reached a settlement under which the Bank retained 525,000 shares, or the balance of the unsold shares in then held, in partial satisfaction of the debt. Enterprise Bank may sell the shares in private transactions or in the open market under Rule 144. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock by Enterprise Bank or other creditors under Rule 144 or otherwise, or even the potential for such sales, could have a substantial depressive effect on the market price of the shares of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of our equity securities. 20 Our stock price is likely to be highly volatile because of several factors, including a limited public float. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile because there has been a relatively thin trading market for our stock, which causes trades of small blocks of stock to have a significant impact on our stock price. You may not be able to resell shares of our common stock following periods of volatility because of the market’s adverse reaction to volatility. Other factors that could cause such volatility may include, among other things: · digital video in-car recording products not being accepted by the law enforcement industry or digital video recording not being accepted as evidence in criminal proceedings; · acceptance of our new products in the marketplace and, in particular, the commercial fleet and mass transit market; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; · the potential absence of securities analysts covering us and distributing research and recommendations about us; · we expect our actual operating results to fluctuate widely as we increase our sales and production capabilities and other operations; · we may have a low trading volume for a number of reasons, including that a large amount of our stock is closely held; · overall stock market fluctuations; · economic conditions generally and in the law enforcement and security industries in particular; · announcements concerning our business or those of our competitors or customers; · our ability to raise capital when we require it, and to raise such capital on favorable terms; · we have $2.5 million of borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2011 under two unsecured notes payable to a private, third party lender, that mature in May 2013; · we have no institutional line-of-credit available to fund our operations and we may be unable to obtain a line of credit under terms that are mutually agreeable; · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts or our failure to perform as anticipated by the analysts; · announcements of technological innovations; · conditions or trends in the industry; · litigation; · changes in market valuations of other similar companies; · announcements by us or our competitors of new products or of significant technical innovations, contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; · future sales of common stock; · actions initiated by the SEC or other regulatory bodies; · existence or lack of patents or proprietary rights; · departure of key personnel or failure to hire key personnel; and · general market conditions. 21 Any of these factors could have a significant and adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market in general has at times experienced extreme volatility and rapid decline that has often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Non-Compliance with Nasdaq listing requirements. On September 13, 2011 we received a notice from The Nasdaq Stock Market stating that the closing bid price of our common stock for the prior 30 consecutive business days had been below $1.00 per share and therefore we were not in compliance with Marketplace Rule 5550(a)(2). We had 180 calendar days, or until March 12, 2012, to regain compliance with the minimum bid requirement under the first notice, but were unable to do so. On March 13, 2012, The Nasdaq Stock Market advised us that it had determined that we are eligible for an additional 180 day calendar period to regain compliance with the minimum bid requirement for continued listing on it. Accordingly, to regain compliance, the closing bid price of our common stock must be at least $1.00 per share for a minimum of ten consecutive business days prior to September 12, 2012 in accordance with Marketplace Rule 5810(c)(3)(A). If we fail to achieve compliance within such period our common stock could be de-listed and we would most likely be traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. Such event could have an adverse impact on the liquidity of our trading market and price of our common stock, among other items. Indemnification of officers and directors. Our articles of incorporation and the bylaws contain broad indemnification and liability limiting provisions regarding our officers, directors and employees, including the limitation of liability for certain violations of fiduciary duties. Our stockholders therefore will have only limited recourse against such individuals. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 