D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Company and Our Industry Our limited operating history may not serve as an adequate basis to judge our future prospects and results of operations. We have a limited operating history. We completed our first PV cell manufacturing line in August 2002 and began commercial shipment of PV cells in September 2002. With the rapid growth of the PV industry, we have experienced a high growth rate since 2002. As such, our historical operating results may not provide a meaningful basis for evaluating our business, financial performance and prospects. We may not be able to achieve a similar growth rate in future periods. Accordingly, you should not rely on our results of operations for any prior periods as an indication of our future performance. We are currently experiencing an industry-wide shortage of silicon wafers. The prices that we pay for silicon wafers have increased in the past and we expect prices may continue to increase in the future, which may materially and adversely affect our revenue growth and decrease our gross profit margins and profitability. Silicon wafers are an essential raw material in our production of PV products. Silicon is created by refining quartz or sand, and is melted and grown into crystalline ingots or other forms. Some of our suppliers procure silicon ingots from companies that specialize in ingot growth and then slice these ingots into wafers. We depend on our suppliers for timely delivery of silicon wafers in sufficient quantities and satisfactory quality, and any disruption in supplies, including fluctuations in the delivery of supplies or inability to obtain silicon wafers at an acceptable cost or at all, will materially and adversely affect our business and operations. 7 Table of Contents There is currently an industry-wide shortage of silicon and silicon wafers, which has resulted in significant price increases. Based on our experience, the average prices of silicon and silicon wafers may continue to increase. Moreover, we expect the shortages of silicon and silicon wafers to continue as the solar power industry continues to grow and as additional manufacturing capacity is added. Silicon wafers are also used in the semiconductor industry generally and any increase in demand from that sector will exacerbate the current shortage. The production of silicon and silicon wafers is capital intensive and adding manufacturing capacity requires significant lead time. While we are aware that several new facilities for the manufacture of silicon and silicon wafers are under construction and many existing facilities are expanding their production capacities, we do not believe that the supply shortage will be remedied in the near term. We expect that the demand for silicon and silicon wafers will continue to outstrip supply for the foreseeable future. We have attempted to ease our supply shortages by prepaying for silicon and silicon wafers and establishing strategic relationships with certain suppliers. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain supplies from them or any other suppliers in sufficient quantities or at acceptable prices. In particular, since some of our suppliers do not themselves manufacture silicon but instead purchase their requirements from other vendors, it is possible that these suppliers will not be able to obtain sufficient silicon to satisfy their contractual obligations to us. In addition, we, like other companies in the PV industry, compete with companies in the semiconductor industry for silicon wafers, and companies in that sector typically have greater purchasing power and market influence than companies in the PV industry. We have historically acquired most of our silicon wafers from our suppliers through short-term supply arrangements for periods ranging from several months to two years, and may continue to rely on short-term supply arrangements to secure a significant portion of our silicon wafer needs in the future. This subjects us to the risk that our suppliers may cease supplying silicon wafers to us for any reason, including due to uncertainties in their financial viability. These suppliers could also choose not to honor such contracts. If either of these circumstances occurs, our supply of critical raw materials at reasonable costs and our basic ability to conduct our business could be severely restricted. Moreover, since some of our supply contracts may require prepayment of a substantial portion of the contract price, we may not be able to recover such prepayments and we would suffer losses should such suppliers fail to fulfill their delivery obligations under the contracts. Furthermore, we have not fixed the price for some of the silicon wafers supply contracts for 2007 with some of our suppliers. As a result, the price we will need to pay may need to be adjusted to reflect the prevailing market price around the time of delivery, which may be higher than we expect. Increases in the prices of silicon and silicon wafers have in the past increased our production costs and may materially and adversely impact our cost of revenue, gross margins and profitability. There are a limited number of silicon wafer suppliers, and many of our competitors also purchase silicon wafers from these suppliers. Our competitors may have longer and stronger relationships with these suppliers than we do. Our competitors may also have in place multi-year supply agreements with these suppliers with longer terms and may be able to obtain silicon and silicon wafers at a lower cost than we do. As we intend to significantly increase our manufacturing output, an inadequate allocation of silicon wafers would have a material adverse effect on our expansion plans. Moreover, the inability to obtain silicon wafers at commercially reasonable prices or at all would harm our ability to meet existing and future customer demand for our products, and could cause us to make fewer shipments, lose customers and market share and generate lower than anticipated revenue, thereby materially and adversely affecting our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may not be able to manage our expansion of operations effectively. We commenced business operations in May 2002 and have grown rapidly. We anticipate significant continued expansion of our business to address growth in demand for our PV products and services, as well as to capture new market opportunities. To manage the potential growth of our operations, we will be required to improve our operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, increase manufacturing capacity and output, and expand, train and manage our growing employee base. Furthermore, our management will be required to maintain and expand our relationships with our customers, suppliers and other third parties. We cannot assure you that our current and planned operations, personnel, systems, internal procedures and controls will be adequate to support our future growth. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, execute our business strategies or respond to competitive pressures. The reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid solar energy applications could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. 8 Table of Contents We believe that the near-term growth of the market for “on-grid” applications, where solar energy is used to supplement a customer’s electricity purchased from the electric utility, depends in large part on the availability and size of government subsidies and economic incentives. As a portion of our sales is in the on- grid market, the reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives may hinder the growth of this market or result in increased price competition, which could decrease demand for our products and reduce our revenue. The cost of unsubsidized solar energy currently substantially exceeds the cost of power furnished by the electric utility grid in nearly all locations. As a result, federal, state and local governmental bodies in many countries, most notably Germany, Italy, Spain, the United States, France and South Korea have provided subsidies and economic incentives in the form of rebates, tax credits and other incentives to end users, distributors, system integrators and manufacturers of solar power products to promote the use of solar energy in on-grid applications and to reduce dependency on other forms of energy. These government economic incentives could be reduced or eliminated altogether. In particular, political changes in a particular country could result in significant reductions or eliminations of subsidies or economic incentives. Electric utility companies that have significant political lobbying powers may also seek changes in the relevant legislation in their markets that may adversely affect the development and commercial acceptance of solar energy. The reduction or elimination of government subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid solar energy applications, especially those in our target markets, could cause demand for our products and our revenue to decline, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If PV technology is not suitable for widespread adoption, or sufficient demand for PV products does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipated, our sales may not continue to increase or may even decline, and we may be unable to sustain profitability. The PV market is at a relatively early stage of development and the extent to which PV products will be widely adopted is uncertain. Market data in the PV industry are not as readily available as those in other more established industries where trends can be assessed more reliably from data gathered over a longer period of time. If PV technology proves unsuitable for widespread adoption or if demand for PV products fails to develop sufficiently, we may not be able to grow our business or generate sufficient revenues to sustain our profitability. In addition, demand for PV products in our targeted markets, including China, may not develop or may develop to a lesser extent than we anticipated. Many factors may affect the viability of widespread adoption of PV technology and demand for PV products, including: • availability of government subsidies and incentives to support the development of the PV industry; • cost-effectiveness of PV products compared to conventional and other non-solar energy sources and products; • performance and reliability of PV products compared to conventional and other non-solar energy sources and products; • success of other alternative energy generation technologies, such as fuel cells, wind power and biomass; • fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the viability of conventional and non-solar alternative energy sources, such as increases or decreases in the prices of oil, coal, natural gas and other fossil fuels; • the cost and availability of credit, loans and other funding mechanisms to finance the installation and maintenance of PV systems. For example, a rise in interest rates would likely render existing financings more expensive and be an obstacle for potential financings that would otherwise spur the growth of the PV industry; • capital expenditures by end users of PV products, which tend to decrease when the economy slows down; and • deregulation of the electric power industry and broader energy industry. We face intense competition from other companies producing solar energy and other renewable energy products. The PV market is intensely competitive and rapidly evolving. According to Photon International’s survey in March 2006, as of the end of 2005, 94 companies in the world produced PV cells and 153 companies 9 Table of Contents produced PV modules. Many of our competitors have established more prominent market positions, and if we fail to attract and retain customers and establish successful distribution networks in our target markets for our products, we will be unable to increase our sales. Our competitors include PV divisions of large conglomerates such as Royal Sanyo Group and Sharp Corporation, specialized cell manufacturers such as Q-Cells AG, as well as integrated manufacturers of PV products such as Renewable Energy Corporation and SolarWorld AG. Some of our competitors have also become vertically integrated, from upstream silicon wafer manufacturing to PV system integration. We expect to compete with future entrants to the PV market that offer new technological solutions. We may also face competition from semiconductor manufacturers, a few of which have already announced their intention to start production of PV cells. Many of our competitors are developing or currently producing products based on new PV technologies, including thin film, ribbon, sheet and nano technologies, which they believe will ultimately cost the same as or less than crystalline silicon technologies similar to ours. In addition, the entire PV industry also faces competition from conventional and non-solar renewable energy technologies. Due to the relatively high manufacturing costs compared to most other energy sources, solar energy is generally not competitive without government incentive programs. Many of our existing and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing and other resources than we do. Our competitors’ greater size in some cases provides them with a competitive advantage with respect to manufacturing costs because of their economies of scale and their ability to purchase raw materials at lower prices. For example, those of our competitors that also manufacture semiconductors may source both semiconductor grade silicon wafers and solar grade silicon wafers from the same supplier. As a result, those competitors may have stronger bargaining power with the supplier and have an advantage over us in negotiating favorable pricing, as well as securing silicon wafer supplies at times of shortages. Many of our competitors also have greater brand name recognition, more established distribution networks and larger customer bases. In addition, many of our competitors have well-established relationships with our current and potential distributors and have extensive knowledge of our target markets. As a result, they may be able to devote greater resources to the research, development, promotion and sale of their products or respond more quickly to evolving industry standards and changes in market conditions than we can. Our failure to adapt to changing market conditions and to compete successfully with existing or new competitors may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to further refine our technology and develop and introduce new PV products could render our products uncompetitive or obsolete, and reduce our sales and market share. The PV industry is rapidly evolving and competitive. We will need to invest significant financial resources in research and development to keep pace with technological advances in the PV industry and to effectively compete in the future. However, research and development activities are inherently uncertain, and we might encounter practical difficulties in commercializing our research results. Our significant expenditures on research and development may not reap corresponding benefits. A variety of competing PV technologies that other companies may develop could prove to be more cost-effective and have better performance than our PV products. Therefore, our development efforts may be rendered obsolete by the technological advances of others. Breakthroughs in PV technologies that do not use crystalline silicon could mean that companies such as us that currently rely entirely on crystalline silicon would encounter a sudden, sharp drop in sales. Our failure to further refine our technology and develop and introduce new PV products could render our products uncompetitive or obsolete, and result in a decline in our market share. Our future success substantially depends on our ability to significantly increase both our manufacturing capacity and output. Our ability to achieve our expansion goals is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Our future success depends on our ability to significantly increase both our manufacturing capacity and output. If we are unable to do so, we may be unable to expand our business, decrease our costs per watt, maintain our competitive position and improve our profitability. Our ability to establish additional manufacturing capacity and increase output is subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including: • the need to raise additional funds or generate sufficient cashflow from operations to purchase and prepay for raw materials or to build additional manufacturing facilities, which we may be unable to obtain on reasonable terms or at all; • delays and cost overruns as a result of a number of factors, many of which may be beyond our control, such as increases in raw materials prices and long lead times or delays with certain equipment vendors; 10 Table of Contents • our ability to address safety and quality issues that may increase as our manufacturing capacity and output increase; • delays or denial of required approvals by relevant government authorities; • diversion of significant management attention and other resources; and • failure to execute our expansion plan effectively. If we are unable to establish or successfully operate additional manufacturing capacity or to increase manufacturing output, or if we encounter any of the risks described above, we may be unable to expand our business as planned. Moreover, we cannot assure you that if we do expand our manufacturing capacity and output we will be able to generate sufficient customer demand for our PV products to support our increased production levels. Our ability to adjust our materials costs may be limited as a result of entering into prepaid, fixed-priced arrangements with our suppliers, and it therefore may be difficult for us to respond appropriately in a timely manner to market conditions, which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. We have in the past secured, and plan to continue to secure, our supply of silicon and silicon wafers through prepaid supply arrangements with overseas and domestic suppliers. In 2006, we entered into supply contracts with some of our suppliers, under which these suppliers agreed to provide us with specified quantities of silicon wafers and we have made prepayments to these suppliers in accordance with the supply contracts. The prices of the supply contracts we entered into with some of our suppliers are fixed. If the prices of silicon or silicon wafers were to decrease in the future and we are locked into prepaid, fixed-price arrangements, we may not be able to adjust our materials costs, and our cost of revenue would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if demand for our PV products decreases, we may incur costs associated with carrying excess materials, which may have a material adverse effect on our operating expenses. To the extent we are not able to pass these increased costs and expenses to our customers, our profitability may be materially reduced. Moreover, since some of our supply contracts may require pre-payment of a substantial portion of the contract price or require us to provide interest free loans or equity-based incentives, we may not be able to recover such pre-payments, interest free loans or equity-based incentives and would suffer losses should such suppliers fail to fulfill their delivery obligations under the contracts. We require a significant amount of cash to fund our operations as well as meet future capital requirements. If we cannot obtain additional capital when we need it, our growth prospects and future profitability may be materially and adversely affected. We typically require a significant amount of cash to fund our operations, especially prepayments or loans to suppliers to secure our silicon wafer requirements. We also require cash generally to meet future capital requirements, which are difficult to plan in the rapidly changing PV industry. In particular, we will need capital to fund the expansion of our facilities as well as research and development activities in order to remain competitive. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated needs for at least 12 months, including for working capital and capital expenditure requirements. However, future acquisitions, expansions, or market changes or other developments may cause us to require additional funds. Our ability to obtain external financing in the future is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: • our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; • general market conditions for financing activities by manufacturers of PV and related products; and • economic, political and other conditions in the PRC and elsewhere. If we are unable to obtain funding in a timely manner or on commercially acceptable terms, or at all, our growth prospects and future profitability may decrease materially. We have limited experience in the high value-added BIPV market and we may be unable to manage the growth of our BIPV business or successfully operate in the BIPV market. We have entered into the BIPV market through our acquisition of MSK in August 2006. BIPV products generally have higher profit margins compared to standard PV modules as they integrate solar energy generation 11 Table of Contents into the design of a building or structure. We plan to expand our operations in the BIPV market by leveraging MSK’s design capabilities and investing further in research and development on BIPV products. However, as we have limited experience in the BIPV market and as MSK’s BIPV business currently represents a relatively small percentage of MSK’s revenues, there can be no assurance that we can successfully operate and expand in this new area. For example, we may not have the necessary research and development capabilities or the marketing and sales personnel to meet the needs of our customers or manage our growth. In addition, we may face competitors in the BIPV market that have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing and other resources than we do. If we are unable to manage the growth of our BIPV business or if our BIPV products fail to meet the needs of our customers, there would be a material adverse effect on our reputation, our existing business, financial condition or results of operations. Our dependence on a limited number of suppliers for a substantial portion of silicon and silicon wafers could prevent us from delivering our products in a timely manner to our customers in the required quantities, which could result in order cancellations, decreased revenue and loss of market share. In 2006, our five largest suppliers supplied in the aggregate 33.2% of our total silicon and silicon wafer purchases. This percentage will increase in 2007 as we have secured the majority of our anticipated silicon wafer needs in 2007 through several multi-year supply agreements which we entered into in 2006. To develop or secure our relationships with these suppliers, we may extend interest-free loans or make prepayments to them, or grant them warrants or other rights to purchase our ordinary shares, which could increase our costs or expenses. If we fail to develop or maintain our relationships with these or our other suppliers, we may be unable to manufacture our products, our products may only be available at a higher cost or after a long delay, or we could be prevented from delivering our products to our customers in the required quantities, at competitive prices and on acceptable terms of delivery. Problems of this kind could cause us to experience order cancellations, decreased revenue and loss of market share. In general, the failure of a supplier to supply materials and components that meet our quality, quantity and cost requirements in a timely manner due to lack of supplies or other reasons could impair our ability to manufacture our products or could increase our costs, particularly if we are unable to obtain these materials and components from alternative sources in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms. We cannot assure you that we will not experience shortfalls of silicon or silicon wafers from our suppliers in the future or that, in the event of such shortfalls, we will be able to find other silicon suppliers to satisfy our production needs. Any disruption in the supply of silicon wafers to us may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. Our dependence on a limited number of customers may cause significant fluctuations or declines in our revenues. We currently sell a substantial portion of our PV products to a limited number of customers, including distributors, engineering design firms, system integrators, other value-added resellers, as well as integrated manufacturers of PV products. In 2006, we had one customer accounting for 10.0% or more of our total net sales and sales to our largest customer accounted for approximately 21.4% of our total net revenues for the period. Sales to our other customers are typically made through non-exclusive, short-term arrangements where the contract prices are typically agreed upon between our customers and us on a quarterly basis, and as such, our actual revenues can vary significantly from our forecasts. We anticipate that our dependence on a limited number of customers will continue for the foreseeable future. Consequently, any one of the following events may cause material fluctuations or declines in our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations: • reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of our significant customers; • selection by one or more of our significant distributor customers of products competitive with ours; • loss of one or more of our significant customers and our failure to identify additional or replacement customers; and • failure of any of our significant customers to make timely payment for our products. We face risks associated with the marketing, distribution and sale of our PV products internationally, and if we are unable to effectively manage these risks, they could impair our ability to expand our business abroad. In 2006, we sold 78.3% of our products to customers outside of China. The marketing, international distribution and sale of our PV products expose us to a number of risks, including: 12 Table of Contents • our ability to manage our sales channels effectively as we expand our sales channels beyond distributors to include direct sales as well as sales to systems integrators, end users and installers; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • difficulty in engaging and retaining distributors who are knowledgeable about and, can function effectively in, overseas markets; • increased costs associated with maintaining marketing efforts in various countries; • difficulty and cost relating to compliance with the different commercial, legal and regulatory requirements of the overseas markets in which we offer our products; • inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights; and • trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses, which could increase the prices of our products and make us less competitive in some countries. If we are unable to effectively manage these risks, they could impair our ability to expand our business abroad. Problems with product quality or product performance may cause us to incur warranty expenses, damage our market reputation and prevent us from achieving increased sales and market share. Our PV modules and MSK’s standard PV modules sold outside of Japan are typically sold with a five-year and two-year warranty for defects in materials and workmanship, respectively. Our PV modules also contain a 12-year and 25-year warranty against declines of more than 10.0% and 20.0% of initial power generation capacity, respectively. The MSK’s standard PV modules sold outside of Japan contain a 10-year and 25-year warranty against declines of more than 10.0% and 20.0% of initial power generation capacity, respectively. MSK’s standard PV modules sold in Japan are typically sold with a one-year warranty for defects in materials and workmanship and a 10-year warranty against declines of more than 10.0% of initial power generation capacity. The warranty periods of MSK’s BIPV products vary depending on the nature and specification of each BIPV product. As a result of these warranties, we bear the risk of extensive warranty claims long after we have sold our products and recognized revenues. We and MSK have also retained third party insurance to cover certain warranty-related claims on our products. We have sold PV modules since September 2002, and accordingly none of our PV modules has been in use for more than five years. We accrue 0.3% to 1.0% of our PV module revenues as warranty costs at the time revenue is recognized. As of December 31, 2006, our accrued warranty costs amounted to $8.8 million. Because our products have been in use for only a relatively short period, we cannot assure you that our assumptions regarding the durability and reliability of our products are reasonable. Our warranty provisions may be inadequate, and we may have to incur substantial expense to repair or replace defective products in the future. Furthermore, widespread product failures may damage our market reputation and cause our sales to decline. There have been historical deficiencies with MSK’s internal controls and there remain areas of MSK’s internal controls that require improvement. If we fail to establish and maintain an effective system of internal controls for MSK, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or detect fraud, which could adversely affect investor confidence and the market price of our ADSs. Prior to the acquisition, MSK was a Japan-based privately held company with deficiencies in the application of its internal control structure and policies. Such deficiencies included, among others, inadequate documentation, a lack of accounting and internal control resources and deficiencies in its financial reporting controls related to revenue recognition and inventory accounting. In addition, MSK also experienced issues related to data adequacy and integrity, product quality, regulatory compliance as well as undisclosed and product liabilities. We cannot assure you that we or MSK are aware of all existing and potential problems associated with internal control deficiencies with respect to MSK. Any such problems or incidents, which are currently unknown to us or MSK, could adversely affect the financial results and our valuation of MSK, require us to incur significant costs to remedy the deficiencies or adversely affect our overall ability to comply with the requirements of the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Although we are taking a series of remedial measures to strengthen the internal controls of MSK, we cannot assure you that these internal control deficiencies have been or will be adequately remedied by these measures. Our failure to correct these deficiencies or our failure to discover and address any other weaknesses or deficiencies could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, and our ability 13 Table of Contents to produce reliable financial data for the consolidation of such financial data into our financial reports and to comply with applicable financial reporting requirements and related regulatory filings on a timely basis. Following our acquisition of MSK, we began integrating MSK’s internal controls with ours. As part of this process, we are performing system and process evaluations and testing (and any other necessary remediation) required to allow MSK to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Since the acquisition of MSK was completed in 2006, MSK has been excluded from the scope of our management assessment and auditor attestation requirements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. However, MSK may be included in the scope of our management assessment and auditor attestation requirements for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007 and we cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions of MSK’s internal controls or determine its impact on our operations. Furthermore, upon completion of this remedial process, we may still identify additional control deficiencies in MSK of varying degrees of severity under the applicable SEC and Public Company Accounting Oversight Board rules and regulations. As a public company, we will be required to report, among other things, certain control deficiencies. If we fail to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities such as the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange. In addition, if any material weakness or deficiency is identified or is not remedied, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy of our reported financial information, which in turn could harm our reputation and our business and negatively affect the trading price of our ADSs. Failure to integrate acquired businesses into our operations successfully could adversely affect our business. We acquired MSK in August 2006 and may make additional acquisitions in the future. Our integration of the operations of acquired businesses requires significant efforts, including the integration of internal control systems, coordination of information technologies, research and development, sales and marketing, operations, manufacturing and finance. For example, our efforts to integrate MSK’s operations with our existing operations and our ability to execute our plans for MSK are affected and, in some cases, limited by applicable laws and regulations, existing contractual agreements of MSK, as well as cultural and language differences between China and Japan. As a result, we may have to incur additional expenses and expend significant amounts of our management’s time, which cannot then be dedicated to other projects. Our failure to integrate and manage successfully and coordinate the growth of the combined company could also have an adverse and material effect on our business. In addition, there is no guarantee that MSK, or any other business that we acquire in the future, will become profitable or remain so. If our acquisitions do not reach our initial expectations, we may record unexpected impairment charges. Starting in February 2007, we have also halted MSK’s standard PV module production activities in Japan and began shifting MSK’s key production activities to China in order to leverage our low cost production capabilities and operating experience in China. We cannot assure you that this relocation of production will be completed successfully. There is possibility that the cost of relocation and production integration may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operational performance. Factors that will affect the success of our acquisition of MSK and the integration of our respective operations include, but are not limited to: • absence of adequate internal controls or presence of significant fraud in the financial systems of acquired companies; • our ability to meaningfully reduce costs principally by halting MSK’s Japan-based production with a related reduction in equipment and other assets, headcount, raw materials and other supplies; • our ability to manage the MSK brand and the combined product lines with respect to MSK’s customers and any decrease in customer loyalty and product orders caused by dissatisfaction related to the acquisition and integration; • our ability to retain key employees while reducing non-core personnel associated with the halting of MSK’s Japan-based production; and • the ability of the combined company to achieve synergies among its constituent companies, such as increasing sales of the combined company’s products, achieving cost savings and effectively combining technologies to develop new products. These factors, among others, will affect whether an acquired business or asset can be successfully integrated into our business. If we fail to integrate acquired businesses into our operations successfully, we may be unable to realize the business and operational synergies and efficiencies or other benefits that we expect from 14 Table of Contents the acquisition and our competitive position in the marketplace could suffer. Additionally, any future acquisitions may also require potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities and result in acquisition related write-offs and the assumption of debt and contingent liabilities. Our future success depends in part on our ability to make strategic acquisitions and investments and to establish and maintain strategic alliances, and failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our market penetration and revenue growth. As part of our plan to secure silicon wafers and to expand our manufacturing capacity, we have established a 88.2%-owned subsidiary for the manufacture of PV cells in Luoyang, China. We have also, through Suntech China, acquired a 51.0% equity interest in one of our customers, a renewable energy company in China. As part of our strategy to further diversify our geographic presence, expand our selling channels and customer base and broaden our product mix, we acquired MSK, which we believe is a pioneer within the BIPV market. We intend to continue to make strategic acquisitions and investments and establish and maintain strategic alliances with third parties in the PV industry, particularly with silicon suppliers. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to successfully make such strategic acquisitions and investments or to establish strategic alliances with third parties that will prove to be effective for our business. Our inability in this regard could have a material adverse effect on our market penetration, our revenue growth and our profitability. Strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances with third parties could subject us to a number of risks, including risks associated with sharing proprietary information and loss of control of operations that are material to our business. Moreover, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances may be expensive to implement and subject us to the risk of non-performance by a counterparty, which may in turn lead to monetary losses that materially and adversely affect our business. Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our executive officers and our ability to maintain a skilled labor force, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success depends substantially on the continued services of our executive officers, especially Dr. Zhengrong Shi, our founder, chief executive officer and the chairman of our board of directors. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our executive officers. If one or more of our executive officers are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them readily, if at all. Therefore, our business may be severely disrupted, and we may incur additional expenses to recruit and retain new officers. In addition, if any of our executives joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose some of our customers. Each of our executive officers has entered into an employment agreement with us, which contains confidentiality and non-competition provisions. However, if any disputes arise between our executive officers and us, we cannot assure you, in light of uncertainties associated with the PRC legal system, the extent to which any of these agreements could be enforced in China, where most of our executive officers reside and hold some of their assets. See “— Risks Related to Doing Business in China — Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could have a material adverse effect on us.” If we are unable to attract, train and retain technical personnel, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, train and retain technical personnel. In particular, we depend on the services of Dr. Stuart R. Wenham, our chief technical officer and Dr. Jingjia Ji, a member of our board of directors and one of our senior research scientists. Recruiting and retaining capable personnel, particularly those with expertise in the PV industry, are vital to our success. There is substantial competition for qualified technical personnel, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain our technical personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights may undermine our competitive position, and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights or defend against third-party allegations of infringement may be costly. We rely primarily on patent, trademark, trade secret, copyright law and other contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property. Nevertheless, these afford only limited protection and the actions we take to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our proprietary technologies or other intellectual property rights, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology can be 15 Table of Contents difficult and expensive. Also, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. We cannot assure you that the outcome of such potential litigation will be in our favor. Such litigation may be costly and may divert management attention as well as divert our other resources away from our business. An adverse determination in any such litigation will impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. In addition, we have no insurance coverage against litigation costs and would have to bear all costs arising from such litigation to the extent we are unable to recover them from other parties. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Implementation of PRC intellectual property-related laws has historically been lacking, primarily because of ambiguities in the PRC laws and difficulties in enforcement. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. We may be exposed to infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties, which, if determined adversely to us, could cause us to pay significant damage awards. Our success also depends largely on our ability to use and develop our technology and know-how without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. The validity and scope of claims relating to PV technology patents involve complex scientific, legal and factual questions and analysis and, therefore, may be highly uncertain. We may be subject to litigation involving claims of patent infringement or violation of intellectual property rights of third parties. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, patent opposition proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liability to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties, to pay ongoing royalties, or to redesign our products or subject us to injunctions prohibiting the manufacture and sale of our products or the use of our technologies. Protracted litigation could also result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our products until resolution of such litigation. Our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected if our sales outside China were to be restricted by intellectual property claims by third parties. As of December 31, 2006, we had a total of 21 issued patents and 10 pending patent applications in China and MSK had 52 issued patents and 46 pending patent applications in Japan. In addition, we have two pending patent applications filed under the Patent Cooperation Treaty, which provides a unified procedure for filing patent applications to protect inventions internationally. However, we currently do not have any patents for our proprietary technologies outside of China and Japan, although we have sold, and expect to continue to sell, a substantial portion of our products outside of China. Since the protection afforded by our patents is effective mainly in China and Japan, others may independently develop substantially equivalent technologies, or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technologies, and obtain patents for such intellectual properties in other jurisdictions, including the countries to which we sell our products. If any third parties are successful in obtaining patents for technologies that are substantially equivalent or the same as the technologies we use in our products in any of our markets before we do and enforce their intellectual property rights against us, our ability to sell products containing the allegedly infringing intellectual property in those markets will be materially and adversely affected. If we are required to stop selling such allegedly infringing products, seek license and pay royalties for the relevant intellectual properties, or redesign such products with non-infringing technologies, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Changes to existing regulations over the utility sector and the PV industry may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of PV products, which may significantly reduce demand for our products. The market for power generation products is heavily influenced by government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as the internal policies of electric utilities companies. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of end user-owned power generation. In a number of countries, these regulations and policies are being modified and may continue to be modified. End users’ purchases of alternative energy sources, including PV products, could be deterred by these regulations and policies, which could result in a significant reduction in the potential demand for our PV products. For example, utility companies commonly charge fees to larger, industrial customers for disconnecting from the electricity transmission grid or for having the capacity to use power from the electricity transmission 16 Table of Contents grid for back-up purposes. These fees could increase end users’ costs of using our PV products and make our PV products less desirable, thereby having an adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We anticipate that our PV products and their installation will be subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with national and local ordinances relating to building codes, safety, environmental protection, utility interconnection and metering and related matters in various countries. It is also burdensome to track the requirements of individual localities and design equipment to comply with the varying standards. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to our PV products may result in significant additional expenses to us, our distributors and end users and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for our PV products. Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our business. A substantial portion of our sales is currently denominated in U.S. dollars and Euros, with the remainder in Renminbi, Japanese Yen and other currencies, while a substantial portion of our costs and expenses is denominated in U.S. dollars, Euros, Renminbi and Japanese Yen, with the remainder in other currencies. Therefore, fluctuations in currency exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in exchange rates, particularly among the U.S. dollar, Euro, Renminbi and Japanese Yen and affect our gross and net profit margins and could result in foreign exchange and operating losses. We generated net foreign currency gains of $24,678 and $2.0 million in 2004 and 2006, respectively, but recorded net foreign currency loss of $0.9 million in 2005. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations and may incur net foreign currency losses in the future. Although we intend to reduce the effect of exchange rate exposure through hedging arrangements we adopted in February 2006, we cannot assure you that such hedging activities will be effective in managing our foreign exchange risk exposure. Our financial statements are expressed in U.S. dollars, but our subsidiaries use different functional currencies, such as Renminbi and Japanese Yen. The value of your investment in our ADSs will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and other currencies used by our subsidiaries. To the extent we hold assets denominated in U.S. dollars, including the net proceeds to us from our initial public offering in December 2005 and our convertible note offering in February 2007, any appreciation of currencies other than U.S. dollars will likely result in a change to our income statement and a reduction in the value of our U.S. dollar denominated assets. On the other hand, a decline in the value of Renminbi, Japanese Yen and other currencies against the U.S. dollar could reduce the U.S. dollar equivalent amounts of our financial results, the value of your investment in our company and the dividends we may pay in the future, if any, all of which may have a material adverse effect on the prices of our ADSs. Compliance with environmental regulations can be expensive, and noncompliance with these regulations may result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages and fines. As our manufacturing processes generate noise, waste water, gaseous and other industrial wastes, we are required to comply with all national and local regulations regarding protection of the environment. We are in compliance with present environmental protection requirements and have all necessary environmental permits to conduct our business. However, if more stringent regulations are adopted in the future, the costs of compliance with these new regulations could be substantial. We believe that we have all necessary permits to conduct our business as it is presently conducted. If we fail to comply with present or future environmental regulations, however, we may be required to pay substantial fines, suspend production or cease operations. We use, generate and discharge toxic, volatile and otherwise hazardous chemicals and wastes in our research and development and manufacturing activities. Any failure by us to control the use of, or to restrict adequately the discharge of, hazardous substances could subject us to potentially significant monetary damages and fines or suspensions in our business operations. We have limited insurance coverage and may incur losses resulting from product liability claims or business interruptions. As with other PV product manufacturers, we are exposed to risks associated with product liability claims in the event that the use of the PV products we sell results in injury. Since our products are electricity producing devices, it is possible that users could be injured or killed by our products, whether by product 17 Table of Contents malfunctions, defects, improper installation or other causes. We only commenced commercial shipment of our products in September 2002 and, due to limited historical experience, we are unable to predict whether product liability claims will be brought against us in the future or the effect of any resulting adverse publicity on our business. Moreover, we only have limited product liability insurance and may not have adequate resources to satisfy a judgment in the event of a successful claim against us. The successful assertion of product liability claims against us could result in potentially significant monetary damages and require us to make significant payments. In addition, as the insurance industry in China is still in an early stage of development, business interruption insurance available in China offers limited coverage compared to that offered in many other countries. Although we have obtained business interruption insurance, any business disruption or natural disaster could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. Our existing shareholders have substantial influence over our company and their interests may not be aligned with the interests of our other shareholders. Dr. Zhengrong Shi, our founder, chief executive officer and chairman of our board of directors, beneficially owned 38.6% of our outstanding share capital as of June 8, 2007. As such, Dr. Shi has substantial influence over our business, including decisions regarding mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ADSs. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. If a poll is not demanded at our shareholder meetings, voting will be by show of hands and shares will not be proportionately represented. Shareholder resolutions may be passed without the presence of the majority of our shareholders in person or by proxy. Voting at any of our shareholder meetings is by show of hands unless a poll is demanded. A poll may be demanded by the chairman of our board of directors or by any shareholder present in person or by proxy. If a poll is demanded, each shareholder present in person or by proxy will have one vote for each ordinary share registered in his name. If a poll is not demanded, voting will be by show of hands and each shareholder present in person or by proxy will have one vote regardless of the number of shares registered in his name. In the absence of a poll, shares will therefore not be proportionately represented. In addition, the quorum required for our shareholder meetings consists of shareholders who hold at least one-third of our ordinary shares being present at a meeting in person or by proxy. Therefore, subject to the requisite majorities, shareholder resolutions may be passed at our shareholder meetings without the presence of the majority of our shareholders in person or by proxy. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in the political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. All of our business operations are conducted in China and some of our sales are made in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: • the amount of government involvement; • the level of development; • the growth rate; • the control of foreign exchange; and • the allocation of resources. While the Chinese economy has grown significantly in the past 20 years, the growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition 18 Table of Contents and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. The Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the PRC government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the PRC government could materially and adversely affect our business. The PRC government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Efforts by the PRC government to slow the pace of growth of the Chinese economy could result in decreased capital expenditure by solar energy users, which in turn could reduce demand for our products. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth and the level of renewable energy investments and expenditures in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our businesses. Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system could have a material adverse effect on us. We conduct substantially all of our business through our subsidiary, Suntech China, established in China. Suntech China is generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. We rely on dividends paid by our subsidiaries for our cash needs. We conduct significantly all of our operations through our subsidiary, Suntech China, which is a limited liability company established in China. We rely on dividends paid by Suntech China for our cash needs, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, to service any debt we may incur and to pay our operating expenses. The payment of dividends by entities organized in China is subject to limitations. Regulations in the PRC currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. Suntech China is also required to set aside at least 10.0% of its after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to its general reserves until the accumulative amount of such reserves reach 50.0% of its registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. In addition, if Suntech China incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The change in value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar, Euro and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in approximately 7.2% appreciation of Renminbi against U.S. dollar. While the international reaction to the Renminbi revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. As a portion of our costs and expenses is denominated in Renminbi, the revaluation in July 2005 and potential future revaluation has and could further increase our costs. In addition, as we rely on dividends paid to us by our operating subsidiaries, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ADSs in foreign currency 19 Table of Contents terms. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars we received from our initial public offering and our convertible note offering in February 2007 into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the Renminbi amount we would receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. Certain portions of our revenues and expenses are denominated in Renminbi. If our revenues denominated in Renminbi increase or expenses denominated in Renminbi decrease in the future, we may need to convert a portion of our revenues into other currencies to meet our foreign currency obligations, including, among others, payment of dividends declared, if any, in respect of our ordinary shares. Under China’s existing foreign exchange regulations, our PRC subsidiary, Suntech China, is able to pay dividends in foreign currencies, without prior approval from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not take further measures in the future to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. Foreign exchange transactions by Suntech China under the capital account continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of PRC governmental authorities, including the SAFE. In particular, if Suntech China borrows foreign currency loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans must be registered with the SAFE, and if we finance Suntech China by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved by certain government authorities including the Ministry of Commerce or its local counterparts. These limitations could affect the ability of Suntech China to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing. The discontinuation of any preferential tax treatment currently available to us and the increase in the enterprise income tax in the PRC could in each case result in a decrease of our net income and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The basic enterprise income tax rate for foreign-invested enterprises in the PRC is currently 33.0% (30.0% state tax and 3.0% local tax). The PRC government has provided various incentives to foreign-invested enterprises and domestic companies operating in a national level economic and technological development zone, including reduced tax rates and other measures. For example, Suntech China, which is registered and operating in a high-tech zone in Wuxi, has been qualified as a “high or new technology enterprise.” As a result, it is entitled to a preferential enterprise income tax rate of 15.0% so long as it continues to operate in the high-tech zone and maintains its “high or new technology enterprise” status. Suntech China is entitled to a two-year exemption from the enterprise income tax for its first two profitable years of operation, which were 2003 and 2004. Suntech China is thereafter entitled to a preferential enterprise income tax rate of 7.5% for the succeeding three years, which will expire on December 31, 2007. However, we cannot assure you that the current preferential tax treatments and the current level of the enterprise income tax enjoyed by our PRC operating subsidiaries will continue, and any legislative changes to the tax regime could discontinue any preferential tax treatment and increase the enterprise income tax rate applicable to our principal subsidiaries in the PRC. Specifically, the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, was enacted on March 16, 2007. Under the EIT Law, effective on January 1, 2008, China will adopt a uniform tax rate of 25.0% for all enterprises (including foreign-invested enterprises) and revoke the current tax exemption, reduction and preferential treatments applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. However, the current preferential tax rate of 15.0% applicable to high and new technology enterprises and the current preferential tax treatments for all enterprises (including foreign-invested enterprises) will be grandfathered for a period of five years following the effective date of the EIT Law. The EIT Law applies to all of our PRC operating subsidiaries, including Suntech China, which is currently both a high and new technology enterprise and a foreign-invested enterprise, Suntech Power Co., Ltd. and Sunergy Power Co., Ltd., which are foreign-invested enterprises. Any future increase in the enterprise income tax rate applicable to our PRC operating subsidiaries or other adverse tax treatments, such as the discontinuation of preferential tax treatments, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks of contagious diseases, including avian influenza, or avian flu, and SARS. 20 Table of Contents Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of avian flu, SARS or another epidemic or outbreak. There have been recent reports of outbreaks of a highly pathogenic avian flu, caused by the H5N1 virus, in certain regions of Asia and Europe. In 2005 and 2006, there have been reports on the occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases. An outbreak of avian flu in the human population could result in a widespread health crisis that could adversely affect the economies and financial markets of many countries, particularly in Asia. Additionally, any recurrence of SARS, a highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia, similar to the occurrence in 2003 which affected China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore, Vietnam and certain other countries, would also have similar adverse effects. These outbreaks of contagious diseases, and other adverse public health developments in China, would have a material adverse effect on our business operations. These could include our ability to travel or ship our products outside of China, as well as temporary closure of our manufacturing facilities. Such closures or travel or shipment restrictions would severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of avian flu, SARS or any other epidemic. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares and ADSs The market price for our ADSs may be volatile. The market price for our ADSs is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • announcements of technological or competitive developments; • regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our customers or our competitors; • announcements regarding patent litigation or the issuance of patents to us or our competitors; • announcements of studies and reports relating to the conversion efficiencies of our products or those of our competitors; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other PV technology companies; • addition or departure of our executive officers and key research personnel; • release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares or ADSs; and • sales or perceived sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. Our articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could have a material adverse effect on the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our second amended and restated articles of association limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix their designations, powers, preferences, privileges, and relative participating, optional or special rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares, in the form of ADS or otherwise. Preferred shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors decides to issue preferred shares, the price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and must act through the depositary to exercise those rights. Holders of ADSs do not have the same rights of our shareholders and may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under our second amended and restated articles of association, the minimum notice period required to convene a general meeting is seven days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your ordinary shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ADSs. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ADSs are not voted as you requested. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to call a shareholder meeting. You may be subject to limitations on transfers of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. ADS holders’ right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings and you may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available to you. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to our ADS holders in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary bank will not make rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act, or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, ADS holders may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings. In addition, the depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute such property and you will not receive such distribution. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than that under U.S. law, you may have less protection for your shareholder rights than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our second amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as that from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would 22 Table of Contents be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a U.S. public company. You may have difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us. We are a Cayman Islands company and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. Substantially all of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. In addition, it is uncertain whether such Cayman Islands or PRC courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or the PRC against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. We may become a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. investors. Based upon the past composition of our income and valuation of our assets, including goodwill, we believe we were not a PFIC for our taxable year ended December 31, 2006, and we do not expect to be a PFIC for our current taxable year for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We must make a separate determination each year as to whether we are a PFIC. As a result, our PFIC status may change. In particular, in reaching the conclusion that we believe we are not a PFIC, we have valued our assets based on the market price per share of the ADSs, which is likely to fluctuate. Accordingly, fluctuations in the market price of the ADSs and ordinary shares may result in our being a PFIC for any year. Thus, there can be no assurance that we will not be considered a PFIC for our current taxable year or any future taxable year. 