Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business The possible lack of business diversification may adversely affect our results of operations. Unlike other entities that are geographically diversified, we do not have the resources to effectively diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses. By consummating acquisitions only in the offshore Gulf of Mexico and Gulf Coast onshore our lack of diversification may: • subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the particular industry in which we operate; and • result in our dependency upon a single or limited number of reserve basins. In addition, the geographic concentration of our properties in the Gulf of Mexico and Gulf Coast onshore means that some or all of the properties could be affected should the region experience: • severe weather; • delays or decreases in production, the availability of equipment, facilities or services; • delays or decreases in the availability of capacity to transport, gather or process production; and/or • changes in the regulatory environment. For example, the oil and gas properties that we acquired in April 2006 were damaged by both Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, and again by Hurricanes Gustav and Ike and the oil and gas properties that we acquired in June 2007 were damaged by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, which required us to spend a considerable amount of time and capital on inspections, repairs, debris removal, and the drilling of replacement wells. Although we maintain insurance coverage to cover a portion of these types of risks, there may be potential risks associated with our operations not covered by insurance. There also may be certain risks covered by insurance where the policy does not reimburse us for all of the costs related to a loss. Because all or a number of the properties could experience many of the same conditions at the same time, these conditions could have a relatively greater impact on our results of operations than they might have on other producers who have properties over a wider geographic area. Our indebtedness may limit our ability to borrow additional funds or capitalize on acquisition or other business opportunities. We have incurred substantial indebtedness in acquiring our properties. As of June 30, 2010, we had face value of total indebtedness of $731.1 million. Our leverage and the current and future restrictions contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness may reduce our ability to incur additional indebtedness, engage in certain transactions or capitalize on acquisition or other business opportunities. Our indebtedness and other financial obligations and restrictions could have important consequences. For example, they could: • impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for capital expenditures, potential acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates since some of our debt is at variable rates of interest; • have a material adverse effect if we fail to comply with financial and restrictive covenants in any of our debt agreements, including an event of default if such event is not cured or waived; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of future cash flow to payments of our indebtedness and other financial obligations, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS • place us at a competitive disadvantage to those who have proportionately less debt. If we are unable to meet future debt service obligations and other financial obligations, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness and other financial transactions, seek additional equity or sell assets. We may then be unable to obtain such financing or capital or sell assets on satisfactory terms, if at all. We expect to have substantial capital requirements, and we may be unable to obtain needed financing on satisfactory terms. We expect to make substantial capital expenditures for the acquisition, development, production, exploration and abandonment of oil and gas properties. Our capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, and we cannot predict accurately the timing and amount of our capital requirements. We intend to primarily finance our capital expenditures through cash flow from operations. However, if our capital requirements vary materially from those provided for in our current projections, we may require additional financing. A decrease in expected revenues or adverse change in market conditions could make obtaining this financing economically unattractive or impossible. The cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially while the availability of funds from those markets generally has diminished significantly. Also, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets generally has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, imposed tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at maturity at all or on terms similar to our current debt and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. A significant increase in our indebtedness, or an increase in our indebtedness that is proportionately greater than our issuances of equity, as well as the credit market and debt and equity capital market conditions discussed above could negatively impact our ability to remain in compliance with the financial covenants under our revolving credit facility which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to finance our growth as expected, we could be required to seek alternative financing, the terms of which may not be attractive to us, or not pursue growth opportunities. Without additional capital resources, we may be forced to limit or defer our planned natural gas and oil exploration and development program and this will adversely affect the recoverability and ultimate value of our natural gas and oil properties, in turn negatively affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also be unable to obtain sufficient credit capacity with counterparties to finance the hedging of our future crude oil and natural gas production which may limit our ability to manage price risk. As a result, we may lack the capital necessary to complete potential acquisitions, obtain credit necessary to enter into derivative contracts to hedge our future crude oil and natural gas production or to capitalize on other business opportunities. The borrowing base under our revolving credit facility could be reduced upon the next re-determination date, and may be further reduced in the future if commodity prices decline, which will limit our available funding for exploration and development. As of June 30, 2010, total outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility were $109.5 million and our current borrowing base was $350 million. We expect that the next determination of the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility will occur in the fall of 2010, if the new borrowing base is reduced, the new borrowing base is subject to approval by banks holding not less than 67% of the lending commitments under our revolving credit facility, and the final borrowing base may be lower than the level recommended by the agent for the bank group. Our borrowing base is re-determined semi-annually by our lenders in their sole discretion. The lenders will re-determine the borrowing base based on an engineering report with respect to our natural gas and oil reserves, which will take into account the prevailing natural gas and oil prices at such time. In the future, we may not be able to access adequate funding under our revolving credit facility as a result of (i) a decrease in our borrowing base due to the outcome of a subsequent borrowing base re-determination, or (ii) an 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS unwillingness or inability on the part of our lending counterparties to meet their funding obligations. If oil and natural gas commodity prices deteriorate, we anticipate that the revised borrowing base under our revolving credit facility may be reduced. As a result, we may be unable to obtain adequate funding under our revolving credit facility or even be required to pay down amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility to reduce our level of borrowing. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, it could adversely affect our exploration and development plans as currently anticipated and our ability to make new acquisitions, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our production, revenues and results of operations. The lenders can unilaterally adjust the borrowing base and the borrowings permitted to be outstanding under our revolving credit facility. Any increase in the borrowing base requires the consent of all the lenders. Outstanding borrowings in excess of the borrowing base must be repaid immediately, or we must pledge other natural gas and oil properties as additional collateral. We do not currently have any substantial unpledged properties, and we may not have the financial resources in the future to make any mandatory principal prepayments required under our revolving credit facility. The recent financial crisis may impact our business and financial condition. We may not be able to obtain funding in the capital markets on terms we find acceptable, or obtain funding under our revolving credit facility because of the deterioration of the capital and credit markets and our borrowing base. The recent credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial systems have had an impact on our business and our financial condition, and we may face challenges if economic and financial market conditions do not improve. Historically, we have used our cash flow from operations and borrowings under our revolving credit facility to fund our capital expenditures and have relied on the capital markets to provide us with additional capital for large or exceptional transactions. A continuation or recurrence of the economic crisis could further reduce the demand for oil and natural gas and put downward pressure on the prices for oil and natural gas. Our current borrowing base under our revolving credit facility is $350 million. In the future, we may not be able to access adequate funding under our revolving credit facility as a result of (i) a decrease in our borrowing base due to the outcome of a subsequent borrowing base redetermination, or (ii) an unwillingness or inability on the part of our lending counterparties to meet their funding obligations. Declines in commodity prices, or a continuing decline in those prices, could result in a determination to lower the borrowing base in the future and, in such case, we could be required to repay any indebtedness in excess of the borrowing base. The turmoil in the financial markets has adversely impacted the stability and solvency of a number of large global financial institutions. The recent credit crisis made it more difficult to obtain funding in the public and private capital markets. In particular, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets increased substantially while the availability of funds from those markets generally diminished significantly. Also, as a result of concerns about the general stability of financial markets and the solvency of specific counterparties, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, imposed tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at maturity or on terms similar to existing debt or at all, or, in some cases, ceased to provide any new funding. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further increase our leverage and attendant risks. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the indentures governing our senior notes and second lien notes and our revolving credit facility do not fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from doing so. At June 30, 2010, we and our subsidiary guarantors collectively had approximately: • $451.5 million face value of secured indebtedness; • $2.5 million of unsecured short-term indebtedness; and • $277.1 million of other indebtedness, net of unamortized discounts. If new debt or liabilities are added to our current debt level, the related risks that we now face could increase. 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures and development and exploration efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our future operating performance and financial results will be subject, in part, to factors beyond our control, including interest rates and general economic, financial and business conditions. We cannot assure that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings or other facilities will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt, we may be required to: • refinance all or a portion of our debt; • obtain additional financing; • sell some of our assets or operations; • reduce or delay capital expenditures, research and development efforts and acquisitions; or • revise or delay our strategic plans. If we are required to take any of these actions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we cannot assure that we would be able to take any of these actions, that these actions would enable us to continue to satisfy our capital requirements or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of the our various debt instruments. The covenants in the indentures governing our senior notes and second lien notes and our revolving credit facility impose restrictions that may limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to take certain actions. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in the acceleration of our outstanding indebtedness. The indentures governing our senior notes and second lien notes and our revolving credit facility contains various covenants that limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: • incur dividend or other payment obligations; • incur indebtedness and issue preferred stock; or • sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries. If we breach any of these covenants, a default could occur. A default, if not waived, would entitle certain of our debt holders to declare all amounts borrowed under the breached indenture to become immediately due and payable, which could also cause the acceleration of obligations under certain other agreements and the termination of our credit facility. In the event of acceleration of our outstanding indebtedness, we cannot assure that we would be able to repay our debt or obtain new financing to refinance our debt. Even if new financing is made available to us, it may not be on terms acceptable to us. Oil and natural gas prices are volatile, and a decline in oil and natural gas prices would affect our financial results and impede growth. Our future financial condition, revenues, profitability and carrying value of our properties will depend substantially upon the prices and demand for oil and natural gas. Prices also affect our cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to access funds under our revolving credit facility and through the capital markets. The amount available for borrowing under our revolving credit facility is subject to a borrowing base, which is determined by our lenders taking into account our estimated proved reserves and is subject to semi-annual redeterminations based on pricing models determined by the lenders at such time. The markets for these commodities are volatile and even relatively modest drops in prices can affect our financial results and impede our growth. 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS Natural gas and oil prices historically have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future, especially given current geopolitical and economic conditions. For example, the NYMEX crude oil spot price per barrel for the period between January 1, 2010 and July 31, 2010 ranged from a high of $86.84 to a low of $68.01 and the NYMEX natural gas spot price per MMBtu for the period January 1, 2010 to July 31, 2010 ranged from a high of $6.01 to a low of $3.84. Prices for oil and natural gas fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond our control, such as: • domestic and foreign supplies of oil and natural gas; • price and quantity of foreign imports of oil and natural gas; • actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil and natural gas price and production controls; • level of consumer product demand; • level of global oil and natural gas exploration and productivity; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations; • level of global oil and natural gas inventories; • political conditions in or affecting other oil-producing and natural gas-producing countries, including the current conflicts in the Middle East and conditions in South America and Russia; • weather conditions; • technological advances affecting oil and natural gas consumption; • overall U.S. and global economic conditions; and • price and availability of alternative fuels. Further, oil prices and natural gas prices do not necessarily fluctuate in direct relationship to each other. Lower oil and natural gas prices may not only decrease our expected future revenues on a per unit basis but also may reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically. This may result in us having to make substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate and any material inaccuracies in the reserve estimates or underlying assumptions of our properties will materially affect the quantities and present value of those reserves. Estimating crude oil and natural gas reserves is complex and inherently imprecise. It requires interpretation of the available technical data and making many assumptions about future conditions, including price and other economic conditions. In preparing such estimates, projection of production rates, timing of development expenditures and available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data are analyzed. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. This process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. If our interpretations or assumptions used in arriving at our reserve estimates prove to be inaccurate, the amount of oil and gas that will ultimately be recovered may differ materially from the estimated quantities and net present value of reserves owned by us. Any inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could also materially affect the estimated quantities of reserves shown in the reserve reports summarized herein. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses, decommissioning liabilities and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves most likely will vary from estimates. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may be limited in our ability to book additional proved undeveloped reserves under the new SEC rules. We have included in this report certain estimates of our proved reserves as of June 30, 2010 prepared in a manner consistent with our and our independent petroleum consultant’s interpretation of the new SEC rules relating to modernizing reserve estimation and disclosure requirements for oil and natural gas companies. These new rules are effective for annual reporting periods ended on or after December 31, 2009. Included within these new SEC reserve rules is a general requirement that, subject to limited exceptions, proved undeveloped reserves may only be classified as such if a development plan has been adopted indicating that they are scheduled to be drilled within five years of the date of booking. This new rule may limit our potential to book additional proved undeveloped reserves as we pursue our drilling program. Further, if we postpone drilling of proved undeveloped reserves beyond this five-year development horizon, we may have to write off reserves previously recognized as proved undeveloped. As of June 30, 2010, approximately 30.5% of our total proved reserves were undeveloped and approximately 24.5% of our total proved reserves were developed non-producing. There can be no assurance that all of those reserves will ultimately be developed or produced. While we have plans or are in the process of developing plans for exploiting and producing a majority of our proved reserves, there can be no assurance that all of those reserves will ultimately be developed or produced. We are not the operator with respect to approximately 27.0% of our proved undeveloped reserves, so we may not be in a position to control the timing of all development activities. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that all of our undeveloped and developed non-producing reserves will ultimately be produced during the time periods we have planned, at the costs we have budgeted, or at all, which could result in the write-off of previously recognized reserves. Unless we replace crude oil and natural gas reserves our future reserves and production will decline. Our future crude oil and natural gas production will depend on our success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. If we are unable to replace reserves through drilling or acquisitions, our level of production and cash flows will be adversely affected. In general, production from oil and gas properties declines as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. Our total proved reserves decline as reserves are produced unless we conduct other successful exploration and development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, or both. Our ability to make the necessary capital investment to maintain or expand our asset base of crude oil and natural gas reserves would be impaired to the extent cash flow from operations is reduced and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable. We may not be successful in exploring for, developing or acquiring additional reserves. We also may not be successful in raising funds to acquire additional reserves. Relatively short production periods or reserve lives for Gulf of Mexico properties subject us to higher reserve replacement needs and may impair our ability to reduce production during periods of low oil and natural gas prices. High production rates generally result in recovery of a relatively higher percentage of reserves from properties in the Gulf of Mexico during the initial few years when compared to other regions in the United States. Typically, 50% of the reserves of properties in the Gulf of Mexico are depleted within three to four years. Due to high initial production rates, production of reserves from reservoirs in the Gulf of Mexico generally decline more rapidly than from other producing reservoirs. The vast majority of our existing operations are in the Gulf of Mexico. As a result, our reserve replacement needs from new prospects may be greater than those of other oil and gas companies with longer-life reserves in other producing areas. Also, our expected revenues and return on capital will depend on prices prevailing during these relatively short production periods. Our need to generate revenues to fund ongoing capital commitments or repay debt may limit our ability to slow or shut in production from producing wells during periods of low prices for oil and natural gas. 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our offshore operations will involve special risks that could affect operations adversely. Offshore operations are subject to a variety of operating risks specific to the marine environment, such as capsizing, collisions and damage or loss from hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions. These conditions can cause substantial damage to facilities and interrupt production. As a result, we could incur substantial liabilities that could reduce or eliminate the funds available for exploration, development or leasehold acquisitions, or result in loss of equipment and properties. In particular, we are not intending to put in place business interruption insurance due to its high cost. We therefore may not be able to rely on insurance coverage in the event of such natural phenomena. Shallow water ultra-deep shelf wells may require equipment that may delay development and incur longer drilling times that may increase costs. We are currently participating in the drilling of the shallow-water, ultra-deep shelf appraisal well Davy Jones #14 and a well on South Timbalier 144, also known as Blackbeard East and are awaiting long lead facility equipment on South Timbalier 168, formerly known as Blackbeard West. All of these projects have some of the same geological characteristics as deepwater prospects with a potential for significant reserves. The use of advanced drilling technologies involves a higher risk of technological failure and usually higher costs. In addition, there can be delays in completion due to the need to obtain equipment that must be special ordered. Deepwater operations present special risks that may adversely affect the cost and timing of development. Currently, we have minority, non-operated interests in three deepwater fields, Viosca Knoll 822/823, Viosca Knoll 821 and Viosca Knoll 1003. We may evaluate additional activity in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico in the future. Exploration for oil or natural gas in the deepwater of the Gulf of Mexico generally involves greater operational and financial risks than exploration on the shelf. Deepwater drilling generally requires more time and more advanced drilling technologies, involving a higher risk of technological failure and usually higher drilling costs. Deepwater wells often use subsea completion techniques with subsea trees tied back to host production facilities with flow lines. The installation of these subsea trees and flow lines requires substantial time and the use of advanced remote installation mechanics. These operations may encounter mechanical difficulties and equipment failures that could result in cost overruns. Furthermore, the deepwater operations generally lack the physical and oilfield service infrastructure present on the shelf. As a result, a considerable amount of time may elapse between a deepwater discovery and the marketing of the associated oil or natural gas, increasing both the financial and operational risk involved with these operations. Because of the lack and high cost of infrastructure, some reserve discoveries in the deepwater may never be produced economically. Recent events in the Gulf of Mexico may increase risks, costs and delays in our offshore operations. The recent explosion and sinking of the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig in the Gulf of Mexico, as well as the resulting oil spill, may lead to increased governmental regulation of our and our industry’s operations in a number of areas, including health and safety, environmental, and licensing, any of which could result in significantly increased costs or delays in our current and future drilling operations. For example, new legislation has been proposed which would revamp federal oversight of offshore drilling, set new safety standards for drilling equipment and well design, increase liability limits for offshore drilling companies and bar companies with lax safety records from obtaining federal leases, among other provisions. Other governmental responses may include deep-water drilling moratoria or other potentially major restrictions on drilling and production. We cannot predict with any certainty whether such regulation will be enacted or what form such regulation could take. Additionally, this event may lead to increased difficulties obtaining insurance coverage on economically manageable terms. Additional governmental regulation or tightening of the insurance markets could increase our costs, cause delays or have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS The current moratorium on the drilling of certain types of wells in offshore waters of the United States could adversely affect our ability to drill new wells in a timely manner. In May, June and July of 2010, the U.S. Department of the Interior, acting through the BOEM, issued a series of Notices to Lessees (the “NTLs”) seeking to implement a six-month moratorium, until at least November 30, 2010, on the drilling of new wells in deep waters of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. In addition, the NTLs ordered the operators of 33 deepwater wells that were being drilled to halt drilling and take steps to secure the affected wells. The NTLs provide for certain exceptions to the moratorium, including, among others, operations necessary to sustain reservoir pressure from producing wells and workover operations. The NTLs have been subject to a variety of court challenges by offshore drilling companies and other entities adversely affected by the moratorium, and there is some possibility that the moratorium may be invalidated. Even if the moratorium is invalidated, however, the BOEM has imposed numerous new safety requirements on the drilling of new wells in offshore waters and these new requirements have slowed the issuance of permits for new wells in shallow waters not subject to the moratorium. The NTLs are in response to the April 20, 2010 explosion and fire on the Deepwater Horizon and the resulting oil spill. While our three deepwater wells were not affected by the moratorium, we cannot predict the full impact of the incident and resulting moratorium on our operations. In addition, we cannot predict how the United States and other foreign governments or regulatory agencies will respond to the incident or whether changes in laws and regulations concerning operations in the Gulf of Mexico and other foreign regions offshore or more generally will be enacted. Significant changes in regulations regarding future exploration and production activities in the Gulf of Mexico and other foreign regions offshore or other government or regulatory actions could reduce drilling and production activity, or increase the costs of drilling new wells, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. Legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to offshore operations, which include consideration of increases in the minimum levels of demonstrated financial responsibility required to conduct exploration and production operations on the outer continental shelf and elimination of liability limitations on damages, will, if adopted, likely result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions and could have a material adverse effect on our business. The Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (the “OPA”) and regulations adopted pursuant to the OPA impose a variety of requirements related to the prevention of and response to oil spills into waters of the United States. The OPA subjects operators of offshore leases and owners and operators of oil handling facilities to strict, joint and several liability for all containment and cleanup costs and certain other damages arising from a spill, including, but not limited to, the costs of responding to a release of oil, natural resource damages, and economic damages suffered by persons adversely affected by an oil spill. The OPA also requires owners and operators of offshore oil production facilities to establish and maintain evidence of financial responsibility to cover costs that could be incurred in responding to an oil spill. The OPA currently requires a minimum financial responsibility demonstration of $35 million for companies operating on the Outer Continental Shelf, although the Secretary of Interior may increase this amount up to $150 million in certain situations. The OPA also currently limits the liability of a responsible party for economic damages, excluding all oil spill response costs, to $75 million, although this limit does not apply if a federal safety, construction or operating regulation was violated. The states in which we operate have also adopted similar laws and regulations relating to offshore operations in their waters. The United States Congress is currently considering a variety of amendments to the OPA in response to the recent Deepwater Horizon incident in the Gulf of Mexico, including an increase in the minimum level of financial responsibility, an elimination of all liability limitations on damages, and enhancements to safety and spill-response requirements. Additional state regulation in these areas is also possible. Any new requirements would likely increase the cost of operations for our offshore activities, including insurance costs, and expose us to increased liability, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. If we are unable to satisfy new legislative and regulatory requirements, we may be required to curtail operations, sell our offshore properties or operations, or enter into partnerships with other companies that can meet the new requirements, which may have an adverse effect on the value of our offshore assets and the results of our operations. While we believe that we currently are in compliance with the OPA, we cannot predict at this time whether the OPA will be amended or new state regulations adopted, what the substance of any such amendment or regulations will be or what impact any such amendments might 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS have on our operations. In addition, our costs could also increase for our onshore operations due to changes in standard industry practices in anticipation of, or in reaction to, any new offshore regulation. We suffered ceiling write-downs in fiscal 2009 and may suffer additional ceiling write-downs in future periods. Under the full cost method of accounting, we are required to perform each quarter, a “ceiling test” that determines a limit on the book value of our oil and gas properties. If the net capitalized cost of proved oil and gas properties, net of related deferred income taxes, plus the cost of unevaluated oil and gas properties, exceeds the present value of estimated future net cash flows discounted at 10%, net of related tax effects, plus the cost of unevaluated oil and gas properties, the excess is charged to expense and reflected as additional accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization. Prior to June 30, 2010, future net cash flows were based on period-end commodity prices and excluded future cash outflows related to estimated abandonment costs of proved developed properties. Effective with our June 30, 2010 financial statements, prices are based on the average realized prices for the previous twelve-month period. As of the reported balance sheet date, capitalized costs of an oil and gas producing company may not exceed the full cost limitation calculated under the above described rule based on the average previous twelve-month prices for oil and natural gas. However, if prior to the balance sheet date, we enter into certain hedging arrangements for a portion of our future natural gas and oil production, thereby enabling us to receive future cash flows that are higher than the estimated future cash flows indicated, these higher hedged prices are used if they qualify as cash flow hedges. Because of the significant decline in crude oil and natural gas prices, coupled with the impact of Hurricanes Gustav and Ike, we recognized a non-cash write-down of the net book value of our oil and gas properties of $117.9 million and $459.1 million in the third and second quarters of fiscal 2009, respectively. The write-downs were reduced by $179.9 million and $203.0 million pre-tax as a result of our hedging program in the third and second quarters of fiscal 2009, respectively. Additional write-downs may be required if oil and natural gas prices decline, unproved property values decrease, estimated proved reserve volumes are revised downward or the net capitalized cost of proved oil and gas properties otherwise exceeds the present value of estimated future net cash flows. The Company and its Subsidiaries may need to obtain bonds or other surety in order to maintain compliance with those regulations promulgated by the U.S. Bureau of Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement (“BOEM”, formerly known as the Minerals Management Service), which, if required, could be costly and reduce borrowings available under our bank credit facility. For offshore operations, lessees must comply with the BOEM regulations governing, among other things, engineering and construction specifications for production facilities, safety procedures, plugging and abandonment of wells on the Shelf and removal of facilities. The BOEM’s safety requirements have recently been made more stringent as a result of the April 20, 2010 Deep Water Horizon incident and resulting oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. To cover the various obligations of lessees on the U.S. Outer Continental Shelf of the Gulf of Mexico, the BOEM generally requires that lessees have substantial net worth or post bonds or other acceptable assurances that such obligations will be met. While we believe that we are currently exempt from the supplemental bonding requirements of the BOEM, the BOEM could re-evaluate our plugging obligations and increase them which could cause us to lose our exemption. The cost of these bonds or other surety could be substantial and there is no assurance that bonds or other surety could be obtained in all cases. In addition, we may be required to provide letters of credit to support the issuance of these bonds or other surety. Such letter of credit would likely be issued under our credit facility and would reduce the amount of borrowings available under such facility in the amount of any such letter of credit obligations. The cost of compliance with these supplemental bonding requirements could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Our insurance may not protect us against business and operating risks. We maintain insurance for some, but not all, of the potential risks and liabilities associated with our business. For some risks, we may not obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. Due to market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially, and in some instances, certain insurance policies are 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS economically unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. Although we will maintain insurance at levels we believe are appropriate and consistent with industry practice, we will not be fully insured against all risks, including high-cost business interruption insurance and drilling and completion risks that are generally not recoverable from third parties or insurance. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Losses and liabilities from uninsured and underinsured events and delay in the payment of insurance proceeds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Due to a number of recent catastrophic events like the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, Hurricanes Ivan, Katrina, Rita, Gustav and Ike, and the April 20, 2010 Deep Water Horizon incident, insurance underwriters increased insurance premiums for many of the coverages historically maintained and issued general notices of cancellation and significant changes for a wide variety of insurance coverages. The oil and natural gas industry suffered extensive damage from Hurricanes Ivan, Katrina, Rita, Gustav and Ike. As a result, insurance costs have increased significantly from the costs that similarly situated participants in this industry have historically incurred. Insurers are requiring higher retention levels and limit the amount of insurance proceeds that are available after a major wind storm in the event that damages are incurred. If storm activity in the future is as severe as it was in 2005 or 2008, insurance underwriters may no longer insure Gulf of Mexico assets against weather-related damage. In addition, we do not intend to put in place business interruption insurance due to its high cost. This insurance may not be economically available in the future, which could adversely impact business prospects in the Gulf of Mexico and adversely impact our operations. If an accident or other event resulting in damage to our operations, including severe weather, terrorist acts, war, civil disturbances, pollution or environmental damage, occurs and is not fully covered by insurance or a recoverable indemnity from a vendor, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, we may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable or be able to obtain insurance against certain risks. Competition for oil and gas properties and prospects is intense and some of our competitors have larger financial, technical and personnel resources that could give them an advantage in evaluating and obtaining properties and prospects. We operate in a highly competitive environment for reviewing prospects, acquiring properties, marketing oil and gas and securing trained personnel. Many of our competitors are major or independent oil and gas companies that possess and employ financial resources that allow them to obtain substantially greater technical and personnel resources than we. We actively compete with other companies when acquiring new leases or oil and gas properties. For example, new leases acquired from the BOEM are acquired through a “sealed bid” process and are generally awarded to the highest bidder. These additional resources can be particularly important in reviewing prospects and purchasing properties. Competitors may be able to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. Competitors may also be able to pay more for productive oil and gas properties and exploratory prospects than we are able or willing to pay. If we are unable to compete successfully in these areas in the future, our future revenues and growth may be diminished or restricted. The present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated natural gas reserves. We base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on average prices for the preceding twelve-month period and costs in effect on the day of the estimate. However, actual future net cash flows from our natural gas and oil properties will be affected by factors such as: • the volume, pricing and duration of our natural gas and oil hedging contracts; • supply of and demand for natural gas and oil; • actual prices we receive for natural gas and oil; • our actual operating costs in producing natural gas and oil; • the amount and timing of our capital expenditures and decommissioning costs; • the amount and timing of actual production; and • changes in governmental regulations or taxation. 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of natural gas and oil properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the natural gas and oil industry in general. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oil field services could adversely affect our ability to execute exploration and exploitation plans on a timely basis and within budget, and consequently could adversely affect our anticipated cash flow. We utilize third-party services to maximize the efficiency of our organization. The cost of oil field services may increase or decrease depending on the demand for services by other oil and gas companies. While we currently have excellent relationships with oil field service companies, there is no assurance that we will be able to contract for such services on a timely basis or that the cost of such services will remain at a satisfactory or affordable level. Shortages or the high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or personnel could delay or adversely affect our exploitation and exploration operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our future business will involve many uncertainties and operating risks that can prevent us from realizing profits and can cause substantial losses. We engage in exploration and development drilling activities. Any such activities may be unsuccessful for many reasons. In addition to a failure to find oil or natural gas, drilling efforts can be affected by adverse weather conditions (such as hurricanes and tropical storms in the Gulf of Mexico), cost overruns, equipment shortages and mechanical difficulties. Therefore, the successful drilling of an oil or gas well does not ensure we will realize a profit on our investment. A variety of factors, both geological and market-related, could cause a well to become uneconomic or only marginally economic. In addition to their costs, unsuccessful wells could impede our efforts to replace reserves. Our business involves a variety of inherent operating risks, including: • fires; • explosions; • blow-outs and surface cratering; • uncontrollable flows of gas, oil and formation water; • natural disasters, such as hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions; • pipe, cement, subsea well or pipeline failures; • casing collapses; • mechanical difficulties, such as lost or stuck oil field drilling and service tools; • abnormally pressured formations; and • environmental hazards, such as gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases. If we experience any of these problems, well bores, platforms, gathering systems and processing facilities could be affected, which could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations. We could also incur substantial losses due to costs and/or liability incurred as a result of: • injury or loss of life; • severe damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; • pollution and other environmental damage; 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS • clean-up responsibilities; • regulatory investigations and penalties; • suspension of our operations; and • repairs to resume operations. Market conditions or transportation impediments may hinder access to oil and gas markets, delay production or increase our costs. Market conditions, the unavailability of satisfactory oil and natural gas transportation or the remote location of our drilling operations may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay production. The availability of a ready market for oil and gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines or trucking and terminal facilities. In deepwater operations, market access depends on the proximity of and our ability to tie into existing production platforms owned or operated by others and the ability to negotiate commercially satisfactory arrangements with the owners or operators. We may be required to shut in wells or delay initial production for lack of a market or because of inadequacy or unavailability of pipeline or gathering system capacity. Restrictions on our ability to sell our oil and natural gas may have several other adverse effects, including higher transportation costs, fewer potential purchasers (thereby potentially resulting in a lower selling price) or, in the event we were unable to market and sustain production from a particular lease for an extended time, possible loss of a lease due to lack of production. In the event that we encounter restrictions in our ability to tie our production to a gathering system, we may face considerable delays from the initial discovery of a reservoir to the actual production of the oil and gas and realization of revenues. In some cases, our wells may be tied back to platforms owned by parties with no economic interests in these wells. There can be no assurance that owners of such platforms will continue to operate the platforms. If the owners cease to operate the platforms or their processing equipment, we may be required to shut in the associated wells, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We are not the operator on all of our properties and therefore are not in a position to control the timing of development efforts, the associated costs, or the rate of production of the reserves on such properties. As we carry out our planned drilling program, we will not serve as operator of all planned wells. We currently operate approximately 80% of our properties. As a result, we may have limited ability to exercise influence over the operations of some non-operated properties or their associated costs. Dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects, and limited ability to influence operations and associated costs could prevent the realization of targeted returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities. The success and timing of development and exploitation activities on properties operated by others depend upon a number of factors that will be largely outside of our control, including: • the timing and amount of capital expenditures; • the availability of suitable offshore drilling rigs, drilling equipment, support vessels, production and transportation infrastructure and qualified operating personnel; • the operator’s expertise and financial resources; • approval of other participants in drilling wells; • selection of technology; and • the rate of production of the reserves. We are exposed to trade credit risk in the ordinary course of our business activities. We are exposed to risks of loss in the event of nonperformance by our vendors, customers and by counterparties to our price risk management arrangements. Some of our vendors, customers and counterparties may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. Many of our vendors, customers and counterparties finance their activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. Recently, there has been a significant decline in the credit markets and the 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS availability of credit. Additionally, many of our vendors’, customers’ and counterparties’ equity values have substantially declined. The combination of reduction of cash flow resulting from declines in commodity prices and the lack of availability of debt or equity financing may result in a significant reduction in our vendors, customers and counterparties liquidity and ability to make payments or perform on their obligations to us. Even if our credit review and analysis mechanisms work properly, we may experience financial losses in our dealings with other parties. Any increase in the nonpayment or nonperformance by our vendors, customers and/or counterparties could reduce our cash flows. Our operations will be subject to environmental and other government laws and regulations that are costly and could potentially subject us to substantial liabilities. Our oil and gas exploration, production, and related operations are subject to extensive rules and regulations promulgated by federal, state, and local agencies. Failure to comply with such rules and regulations can result in substantial penalties. The regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases our cost of doing business and affects our profitability. Because such rules and regulations are frequently amended or reinterpreted, we are unable to predict the future cost or impact of complying with such laws. All of the jurisdictions in which we operate generally require permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds, and reports concerning operations and impose other requirements relating to the exploration and production of oil and gas. Such jurisdictions also have statutes or regulations addressing conservation matters, including provisions for the unitization or pooling of oil and gas properties, the establishment of maximum rates of production from oil and gas wells and the spacing, plugging and abandonment of such wells. The statutes and regulations of certain jurisdictions also limit the rate at which oil and gas can be produced from our properties. The FERC regulates interstate natural gas transportation rates and service conditions, which affect the marketing of gas we produce, as well as the revenues we receive for sales of such production. Since the mid-1980s, the FERC has issued various orders that have significantly altered the marketing and transportation of gas. These orders resulted in a fundamental restructuring of interstate pipeline sales and transportation services, including the unbundling by interstate pipelines of the sales, transportation, storage and other components of the city-gate sales services such pipelines previously performed. These FERC actions were designed to increase competition within all phases of the gas industry. The interstate regulatory framework may enhance our ability to market and transport our gas, although it may also subject us to greater competition and to the more restrictive pipeline imbalance tolerances and greater associated penalties for violation of such tolerances. Our sales of oil and natural gas liquids are not presently regulated and are made at market prices. The price we receive from the sale of those products is affected by the cost of transporting the products to market. The FERC has implemented regulations establishing an indexing system for transportation rates for oil pipelines, which, generally, would index such rate to inflation, subject to certain conditions and limitations. We are not able to predict with any certainty what effect, if any, these regulations will have on us, but, other factors being equal, the regulations may, over time, tend to increase transportation costs which may have the effect of reducing wellhead prices for oil and natural gas liquids. Under the EP Act 2005, FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1 million per day for each violation and disgorgement of profits associated with any violation. While our operations have not been regulated by FERC under the NGA, FERC has adopted regulations that may subject certain of our otherwise non-FERC jurisdictional entities to FERC annual reporting and daily scheduled flow and capacity posting requirements, as described more fully in Item 1 above. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to those and other matters may be considered or adopted by FERC from time to time. Failure to comply with those regulations in the future could subject us to civil penalty liability. Our oil and gas operations are subject to stringent laws and regulations relating to the release or disposal of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations: • require the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences; 24 TABLE OF CONTENTS • restrict the types, quantities and concentration of substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities; • limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; and • impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in: • the imposition of administrative, civil and/or criminal penalties; • incurring investigatory or remedial obligations; and • the imposition of injunctive relief, which could limit or restrict our operations. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our industry in general and on our own results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. Although we intend to be in compliance in all material respects with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with existing or new regulations. In addition, the risk of accidental spills, leakages or other circumstances could expose us to extensive liability. We are unable to predict the effect of additional environmental laws and regulations that may be adopted in the future, including whether any such laws or regulations would materially adversely increase our cost of doing business or affect operations in any area. Under certain environmental laws and regulations, we could be held strictly liable for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination regardless of whether we were responsible for the release or contamination, or if current or prior operations were conducted consistent with accepted standards of practice. Such liabilities can be significant, and if imposed could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our sales of oil and natural gas, and any hedging activities related to such energy commodities, expose us to potential regulatory risks. The FERC, the Federal Trade Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission hold statutory authority to monitor certain segments of the physical and futures energy commodities markets relevant to our business. These agencies have imposed broad regulations prohibiting fraud and manipulation of such markets. With regard to our physical sales of oil and natural gas, and any hedging activities related to these energy commodities, we are required to observe the market-related regulations enforced by these agencies, which hold substantial enforcement authority. Failure to comply with such regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas we produce while the physical effects of climate change could disrupt our production and cause us to incur costs in preparing for or responding to those effects. On December 15, 2009, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or “EPA” published its final findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other “greenhouse gases” present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings allow the EPA to adopt and implement regulations that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. Accordingly, the EPA has adopted regulations that would require a reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases from motor vehicles and could trigger permit review for greenhouse gas emissions from certain stationary sources. In addition, on October 30, 2009, the EPA published a final rule requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the United States beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. In March 2010, the EPA announced a 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS proposed rulemaking that would expand its final rule on reporting of greenhouse gas emissions to include owners and operators of petroleum and natural gas systems. If the proposed rule is finalized in its current form, monitoring of those newly covered sources would commence on January 1, 2011. The adoption and implementation of any regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of greenhouse gases from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases associated with our operations. Further, Congress is presently considering, and almost one-half of the states have adopted, legislation that seeks to control or reduce emissions of greenhouse gases from a wide range of sources. Any such legislation could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas we produce. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other climatic events. If any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our operations and cause us to incur costs in preparing for or responding to those effects. The adoption of derivatives legislation by Congress could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. The United States Congress recently adopted comprehensive financial reform legislation that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as us, that participate in that market. The new legislation was signed into law by the President on July 21, 2010, and requires the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”) and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation within 360 days from the date of enactment. The CFTC has also proposed regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets, although it is not possible at this time to predict whether or when the CFTC will adopt those rules or include comparable provisions in its rulemaking under the new legislation. The financial reform legislation may also require us to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements in connection with our derivative activities, although the application of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time. The financial reform legislation may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. The new legislation and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the legislation was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material effect on our financial condition and our results of operations. Risks Associated with Acquisitions and Our Risk Management Program Our acquisitions may be stretching our existing resources. Since our inception in July 2005, we have made four major acquisitions and have become a reporting company in the United States. Future transactions may prove to stretch our internal resources and infrastructure. As a result, we may need to invest in additional resources, which will increase our costs. Any further acquisitions we make over the short term would likely exacerbate these risks. We may be unable to successfully integrate the operations of the properties we acquire. Integration of the operations of the properties we acquire with our existing business will be a complex, time-consuming and costly process. Failure to successfully integrate the acquired businesses and operations in a timely manner may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The difficulties of combining the acquired operations include, among other things: 26 TABLE OF CONTENTS • operating a larger organization; • coordinating geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities; • integrating corporate, technological and administrative functions; • diverting management’s attention from other business concerns; • an increase in our indebtedness; and • potential environmental or regulatory liabilities and title problems. The process of integrating our operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our business. Members of our senior management may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to this integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage our business. If our senior management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer. In addition, we face the risk of identifying, competing for and pursuing other acquisitions, which takes time and expense and diverts management’s attention from other activities. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from our acquisitions. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from our future acquisitions, such as increased earnings, cost savings and revenue enhancements, for various reasons, including difficulties integrating operations and personnel, higher than expected acquisition and operating costs or other difficulties, unknown liabilities, inaccurate reserve estimates and fluctuations in market prices. If we are unable to effectively manage the commodity price risk of our production if energy prices fall, we may not realize the anticipated cash flows from our acquisitions. Compared to some other participants in the oil and gas industry, we are a relatively small company with modest resources. Therefore, there is the possibility that we may be unable to find counterparties willing to enter into derivative arrangements with us or be required to either purchase relatively expensive put options, or commit to deliver future production, to manage the commodity price risk of our future production. To the extent that we commit to deliver future production, we may be forced to make cash deposits available to counterparties as they mark to market these financial hedges. Proposed changes in regulations affecting derivatives may further limit or raise the cost, or increase the credit support required to hedge. This funding requirement may limit the level of commodity price risk management that we are prudently able to complete. In addition, we are unlikely to hedge undeveloped reserves to the same extent that we hedge the anticipated production from proved developed reserves. If we fail to manage the commodity price risk of our production and energy prices fall, we may not be able to realize the cash flows from our assets that are currently anticipated even if we are successful in increasing the production and ultimate recovery of reserves. If we place hedges on future production and encounter difficulties meeting that production, we may not realize the originally anticipated cash flows. Our assets consist of a mix of reserves, with some being developed while others are undeveloped. To the extent that we sell the production of these reserves on a forward-looking basis but do not realize that anticipated level of production, our cash flow may be adversely affected if energy prices rise above the prices for the forward-looking sales. In this case, we would be required to make payments to the purchaser of the forward-looking sale equal to the difference between the current commodity price and that in the sales contract multiplied by the physical volume of the shortfall. There is the risk that production estimates could be inaccurate or that storms or other unanticipated problems could cause the production to be less than the amount anticipated, causing us to make payments to the purchasers pursuant to the terms of the hedging contracts. 27 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our price risk management activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our income, which may adversely affect our cash flows. We enter into derivative contracts to reduce the impact of natural gas and oil price volatility on our cash flow from operations. Currently, we use a combination of natural gas and crude oil put, swap and collar arrangements to mitigate the volatility of future natural gas and oil prices received. Our actual future production may be significantly higher or lower than we estimate at the time we enter into derivative contracts for such period. If the actual amount of production is higher than we estimate, we will have greater commodity price exposure than we intended. If the actual amount of production is lower than the notional amount that is subject to our derivative financial instruments, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our derivative transactions without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale of the underlying physical commodity, resulting in a substantial diminution of our liquidity. As a result of these factors, our hedging activities may not be as effective as we intend in reducing the volatility of our cash flows, and in certain circumstances may actually increase the volatility of our cash flows. In addition, our price risk management activities are subject to the following risks: • a counterparty may not perform its obligation under the applicable derivative instrument; • there may be a change in the expected differential between the underlying commodity price in the derivative instrument and the actual price received; and • the steps we take to monitor our derivative financial instruments may not detect and prevent violations of our risk management policies and procedures. The properties we acquire may not produce as projected, and we may be unable to determine reserve potential, identify liabilities associated with the acquired properties or obtain protection from sellers against such liabilities. The properties we acquire may not produce as expected, may be in an unexpected condition and we may be subject to increased costs and liabilities, including environmental liabilities. Although we review properties prior to acquisition in a manner consistent with industry practices, such reviews are not capable of identifying all potential conditions. Generally, it is not feasible to review in depth every individual property involved in each acquisition. We focus our review efforts on the higher-value properties or properties with known adverse conditions and will sample the remainder. However, even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems or permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their condition, any deficiencies, and development potential. Other Risks We depend on key personnel, the loss of any of whom could materially adversely affect future operations. Our success will depend to a large extent upon the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and key operations personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of these key employees could have a material adverse effect on us. Our business will also be dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Acquiring and keeping these personnel could prove more difficult or cost substantially more than estimated. This could cause us to incur greater costs, or prevent us from pursuing our strategy as quickly as we would otherwise wish to do. Unanticipated decommissioning costs could materially adversely affect our future financial position and results of operations. We may become responsible for unanticipated costs associated with abandoning and reclaiming wells, facilities and pipelines. Abandonment and reclamation of facilities and the costs associated therewith is often referred to as “decommissioning.” Should decommissioning be required that is not presently anticipated or the decommissioning be accelerated, such as can happen after a hurricane, such costs may exceed the value of reserves remaining at any particular time. We may have to draw on funds from other sources to satisfy such costs. The use of other funds to satisfy such decommissioning costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. 28 TABLE OF CONTENTS If we are unable to acquire or renew permits and approvals required for operations, we may be forced to suspend or cease operations altogether. The construction and operation of energy projects require numerous permits and approvals from governmental agencies. We may not be able to obtain all necessary permits and approvals, and as a result our operations may be adversely affected. In addition, obtaining all necessary permits and approvals may necessitate substantial expenditures and may create a risk of expensive delays or loss of value if a project is unable to proceed as planned due to changing requirements or local opposition. We may be taxed as a United States corporation. We are incorporated under the laws of Bermuda because of our long-term desire to have substantial business interests outside the United States. Currently, legislation in the United States that penalizes domestic corporations that reincorporate in a foreign country does not affect us, but future legislation could. We plan to purchase any U.S. assets through our wholly owned subsidiary Energy XXI, Inc. Energy XXI, Inc. and its subsidiaries will pay U.S. taxes on U.S. income. We do not currently intend to engage in any business activity in the United States. However, there is a risk that some or all of our income could be challenged, and considered as effectively connected to a U.S. trade or business, and therefore subject to U.S. taxation. In consideration of this risk, we and our U.S. subsidiaries have implemented certain operational steps to separate the U.S. operations from our other operations. In general, employees based in the United States will be employees of our U.S. subsidiaries, and will be paid for their services by such U.S. subsidiaries. Salaries of our employees who are U.S. residents and who render services to the U.S. business activities will be allocated as expenses of the U.S. subsidiaries. Certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. The Proposed Fiscal Year 2010 Budget includes proposed legislation that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to United States tax laws, including the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities, and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether any such changes will be enacted or how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such change could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 