Item 1A. Risk Factors Because we have a limited operating history, you may not be able to evaluate our current and future business prospects accurately. We have a limited operating and financial history upon which you can base an evaluation of our current and future business. The results of exploration, development, production and operation of our properties may differ from that of prior owners. The possible lack of business diversification may adversely affect our results of operations. Unlike other entities that are geographically diversified, we will not have the resources to effectively diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses. By consummating only offshore Gulf of Mexico and Louisiana acquisitions our lack of diversification may: • subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the particular industry in which we operate; and • result in our dependency upon a single or limited number of reserve basins. Our indebtedness may limit our ability to borrow additional funds or capitalize on acquisition or other business opportunities. We have incurred substantial indebtedness in acquiring our properties. Our leverage and the current and future restrictions contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness may reduce our ability to incur additional indebtedness, engage in certain transactions or capitalize on acquisition or other business opportunities. Our indebtedness and other financial obligations and restrictions could have important consequences. For example, they could: • impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for capital expenditures, potential acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes; • result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates since some of our debt is at variable rates of interest; • have a material adverse effect if we fail to comply with financial and restrictive covenants in any of our debt agreements, including an event of default if such event is not cured or waived; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of future cash flow to payments of our indebtedness and other financial obligations, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage to those who have proportionately less debt. If we are unable to meet future debt service obligations and other financial obligations, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness and other financial transactions, seek additional equity or sell assets. We may then be unable to obtain such financing or capital or sell assets on satisfactory terms, if at all. We expect to have substantial capital requirements, and we may be unable to obtain needed financing on satisfactory terms. We expect to make substantial capital expenditures for the acquisition, development, production, exploration and abandonment of oil and gas reserves. Our capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, and we cannot predict accurately the timing and amount of our capital requirements. We intend to primarily finance our capital expenditures through cash flow from operations. However, if our capital requirements vary materially from those provided for in our current projections, we may require additional financing sooner than anticipated. A decrease in expected revenues or adverse change in market conditions could make obtaining this financing economically unattractive or impossible. Without additional capital resources, we may be forced to limit or defer our planned natural gas and oil exploration and development program and this will adversely 6 TABLE OF CONTENTS affect the recoverability and ultimate value of our natural gas and oil properties, in turn negatively affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result, we may lack the capital necessary to complete potential acquisitions or to capitalize on other business opportunities. Risks Associated with Acquisitions and Our Risk Management Program Our acquisitions may be stretching our existing resources. Since our inception in July 2005, we have made three major acquisitions and have become a reporting company in the United States. These transactions may prove to stretch our internal resources and infrastructure. As a result, we may need to invest in additional resources, which will increase our costs. Any further acquisitions we make over the short term would likely exacerbate these risks. We may be unable to successfully integrate the operations of the properties we acquire. Integration of the operations of the properties we acquire with our existing business will be a complex, time-consuming and costly process. Failure to successfully integrate the acquired businesses and operations in a timely manner may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The difficulties of combining the acquired operations include, among other things: • operating a larger organization; • coordinating geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities; • integrating corporate, technological and administrative functions; • diverting management’s attention from other business concerns; • an increase in our indebtedness; and • potential environmental or regulatory liabilities and title problems. The process of integrating our operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our business. Members of our senior management may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to this integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage our business. If our senior management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer. In addition, we face the risk of identifying, competing for and pursuing other acquisitions, which takes time and expense and diverts management’s attention from other activities. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from our acquisitions. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from our prior acquisitions and from future acquisitions, such as increased earnings, cost savings and revenue enhancements, for various reasons, including difficulties integrating operations and personnel, higher than unexpected acquisition and operating costs or other difficulties, unknown liabilities, inaccurate reserve estimates and fluctuations in market prices. If we are unable to effectively manage the commodity price risk of our production if energy prices fall, we may not realize the anticipated cash flows from our acquisitions. Compared to some other participants in the oil and gas industry, we are a relatively small company with modest resources. Therefore, there is the possibility that we may be required to either purchase relatively expensive put options, or commit to deliver future production, to manage the commodity price risk of our future production. To the extent that we commit to deliver future production, we may be forced to make cash deposits available to counterparties as they mark to market these financial hedges. This funding requirement may limit the level of commodity price risk management that we are prudently able to complete. In addition, we are unlikely to hedge undeveloped reserves to the same extent that we hedge the anticipated production from proved developed reserves. If we do not manage or are not capable of managing the commodity price risk of our production and energy prices fall, we may not be able to realize the cash flows from our assets that are currently anticipated even if we are successful in increasing the production and ultimate recovery of reserves. 7 TABLE OF CONTENTS If we place hedges on future production and encounter difficulties meeting that production, we may not realize the originally anticipated cash flows. Our assets consist of a mix of reserves, with some being developed while others are undeveloped. To the extent that we sell the production of these reserves on a forward-looking basis but do not realize that anticipated level of production, our cash flow may be adversely affected if energy prices rise above the prices for the forward-looking sales. In this case, we would be required to make payments to the purchaser of the forward-looking sale equal to the difference between the current commodity price and that in the sales contract multiplied by the physical volume of the shortfall. There is the risk that production estimates could be inaccurate or that storms or other unanticipated problems could cause the production to be less than the amount anticipated causing us to make payments to the purchasers pursuant to the terms of the hedging contracts. Risks Related to the Oil and Gas Business Oil and natural gas prices are volatile, and a decline in oil and natural gas prices would affect our financial results and impede growth. Our future revenues, profitability and cash flow will depend substantially upon the prices and demand for oil and natural gas. The markets for these commodities are volatile and even relatively modest drops in prices can affect our financial results and impede our growth. Prices for oil and natural gas fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond our control, such as: • domestic and foreign supplies of oil and natural gas; • price and quantity of foreign imports of oil and natural gas; • actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil and natural gas price and production controls; • level of consumer product demand; • level of global oil and natural gas exploration and productivity; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations; • level of global oil and natural gas inventories; • political conditions in or affecting other oil-producing and natural gas-producing countries, including the current conflicts in the Middle East and conditions in South America and Russia; • weather conditions; • technological advances affecting oil and natural gas consumption; • overall U.S. and global economic conditions; and • price and availability of alternative fuels. Further, oil prices and natural gas prices do not necessarily fluctuate in direct relationship to each other. Lower oil and natural gas prices may not only decrease our expected future revenues on a per unit basis but also may reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically. This may result in us having to make substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proven reserves and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. To attempt to reduce our price risk, we periodically enter into hedging transactions with respect to a portion of our expected future production. We cannot assure you that such transactions will reduce the risk or minimize the effect of any decline in oil or natural gas prices. Any substantial or extended decline in the prices of or demand for oil or natural gas would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 8 TABLE OF CONTENTS Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate and any material inaccuracies in the reserve estimates or underlying assumptions of the Marlin, Castex or Pogo properties will materially affect the quantities and present value of those reserves. Estimating crude oil and natural gas reserves is complex and inherently imprecise. It requires interpretation of the available technical data and making many assumptions about future conditions, including price and other economic conditions. In preparing such estimates, projection of production rates, timing of development expenditures and available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data are analyzed. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. This process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. If our interpretations or assumptions used in arriving at our reserve estimates prove to be inaccurate, the amount of oil and gas that will ultimately be recovered may differ materially from the estimated quantities and net present value of reserves owned by us. Any inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could also materially affect the estimated quantities of reserves shown in the reserve reports summarized herein. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves most likely will vary from estimates. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Unless we replace crude oil and natural gas reserves our future reserves and production will decline. Our future crude oil and natural gas production will depend on our success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. If we are unable to replace reserves through drilling or acquisitions, our level of production and cash flows will be adversely affected. In general, production from oil and gas properties declines as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. Our total proved reserves decline as reserves are produced unless we conduct other successful exploration and development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, or both. Our ability to make the necessary capital investment to maintain or expand our asset base of oil and gas reserves would be impaired to the extent cash flow from operations is reduced and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable. We may not be successful in exploring for, developing or acquiring additional reserves. We also may not be successful in raising funds to acquire additional reserves. Relatively short production periods or reserve life for Gulf of Mexico properties subject us to higher reserve replacement needs and may impair our ability to reduce production during periods of low oil and natural gas prices. High production rates generally result in recovery of a relatively higher percentage of reserves from properties in the Gulf of Mexico during the initial few years when compared to other regions in the United States. Typically, 50 percent of the reserves of properties in the Gulf of Mexico are depleted within three to four years. Due to high initial production rates, production of reserves from reservoirs in the Gulf of Mexico generally decline more rapidly than from other producing reservoirs. The vast majority of our existing operations are in the Gulf of Mexico. As a result, our reserve replacement needs from new prospects may be greater than those of other oil and gas companies with longer-life reserves in other producing areas. Also, our expected revenues and return on capital will depend on prices prevailing during these relatively short production periods. Our need to generate revenues to fund ongoing capital commitments or repay debt may limit our ability to slow or shut in production from producing wells during periods of low prices for oil and natural gas. Competition for oil and gas properties and prospects is intense and some of our competitors have larger financial, technical and personnel resources that could give them an advantage in evaluating and obtaining properties and prospects. We operate in a highly competitive environment for reviewing prospects, acquiring properties, marketing oil and gas and securing trained personnel. Many of our competitors are major or independent oil and gas companies that possess and employ financial resources that allow them to obtain substantially greater technical and personnel resources than we. We actively compete with other companies when acquiring new leases or oil and gas properties. For example, new leases acquired from the MMS are acquired through a “sealed bid” process and are generally awarded to the highest bidder. These additional resources can be particularly important in reviewing prospects and purchasing properties. Competitors may be able to evaluate, bid for and 9 TABLE OF CONTENTS purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. Competitors may also be able to pay more for productive oil and gas properties and exploratory prospects than we are able or willing to pay. If we are unable to compete successfully in these areas in the future, our future revenues and growth may be diminished or restricted. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oil field services could adversely affect our ability to execute exploration and exploitation plans on a timely basis and within budget, and consequently could adversely affect our anticipated cash flow. We utilize third-party services to maximize the efficiency of our organization. The cost of oil field services has increased during the past year as oil and gas companies have sought to increase production. While we currently have excellent relationships with oil field service companies, there is no assurance that we will be able to contract for such services on a timely basis or that the cost of such services will remain at a satisfactory or affordable level. Shortages or the high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or personnel could delay or adversely affect our exploitation and exploration operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The geographic concentration of our properties in the Gulf of Mexico subjects us to an increased risk of loss of revenue or curtailment of production from factors affecting the Gulf of Mexico specifically. The geographic concentration of our properties in the Gulf of Mexico means that some or all of the properties could be affected should the Gulf of Mexico experience: • severe weather; • delays or decreases in production, the availability of equipment, facilities or services; • delays or decreases in the availability of capacity to transport, gather or process production; and/or • changes in the regulatory environment. For example, the oil and gas properties that we acquired in April 2006 were damaged by both Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, which required us to spend a considerable amount of time and capital on inspections, repairs, debris removal, and the drilling of replacement wells. Although we maintain insurance coverage to cover a portion of these types of risks, there may be potential risks associated with our operations not covered by insurance. There also may be certain risks covered by insurance where the policy does not reimburse us for all of the costs related to a loss. Because all or a number of the properties could experience any of the same conditions at the same time, these conditions could have a relatively greater impact on our results of operations than they might have on other producers who have properties over a wider geographic area. Our future business will involve many uncertainties and operating risks that can prevent us from realizing profits and can cause substantial losses. We engage in exploration and development drilling activities. Any such activities may be unsuccessful for many reasons. In addition to a failure to find oil or natural gas, drilling efforts can be affected by adverse weather conditions (such as hurricanes and tropical storms in the Gulf of Mexico), cost overruns, equipment shortages and mechanical difficulties. Therefore, the successful drilling of a gas or oil well does not ensure we will realize a profit on our investment. A variety of factors, both geological and market-related, could cause a well to become uneconomic or only marginally economic. In addition to their costs, unsuccessful wells could impede our efforts to replace reserves. Our business involves a variety of inherent operating risks, including: • fires; • explosions; • blow-outs and surface cratering; • uncontrollable flows of gas, oil and formation water; 10 TABLE OF CONTENTS • natural disasters, such as hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions; • pipe, cement, subsea well or pipeline failures; • casing collapses; • mechanical difficulties, such as lost or stuck oil field drilling and service tools; • abnormally pressured formations; and • environmental hazards, such as gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases. If we experience any of these problems, well bores, platforms, gathering systems and processing facilities could be affected, which could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations. We could also incur substantial losses due to costs and/or liability incurred as a result of: • injury or loss of life; • severe damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; • pollution and other environmental damage; • clean-up responsibilities; • regulatory investigations and penalties; • suspension of our operations; and • repairs to resume operations. Our offshore operations will involve special risks that could affect operations adversely. Offshore operations are subject to a variety of operating risks specific to the marine environment, such as capsizing, collisions and damage or loss from hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions. These conditions can cause substantial damage to facilities and interrupt production. As a result, we could incur substantial liabilities that could reduce or eliminate the funds available for exploration, development or leasehold acquisitions, or result in loss of equipment and properties. In particular, we are not intending to put in place business interruption insurance due to the fact that this is not economically viable. We therefore may not be able to rely on insurance cover in the event of such natural phenomena. Currently, we have only one deepwater leasehold block with no production or proved reserves. However, we may evaluate activity in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico in the future. Exploration for oil or natural gas in the deepwater of the Gulf of Mexico generally involves greater operational and financial risks than exploration on the shelf. Deepwater drilling generally requires more time and more advanced drilling technologies, involving a higher risk of technological failure and usually higher drilling costs. Deepwater wells use subsea completion techniques with subsea trees tied back to host production facilities with flow lines. The installation of these subsea trees and flow lines requires substantial time and the use of advanced remote installation mechanics. These operations may encounter mechanical difficulties and equipment failures that could result in cost overruns. Furthermore, the deepwater operations generally lack the physical and oilfield service infrastructure present on the shelf. As a result, a considerable amount of time may elapse between a deepwater discovery and the marketing of the associated oil or natural gas, increasing both the financial and operational risk involved with these operations. Because of the lack and high cost of infrastructure, some reserve discoveries in the deepwater may never be produced economically. The properties we acquire may not produce as projected, and we may be unable to determine reserve potential, identify liabilities associated with the acquired properties or obtain protection from sellers against such liabilities. The properties we acquire may not produce as expected, may be in an unexpected condition and we may be subject to increased costs and liabilities, including environmental liabilities. Although we will review properties prior to acquisition in a manner consistent with industry practices, such reviews are not capable of identifying all potential conditions. Generally, it is not feasible to review in depth every individual property involved in each acquisition. We focus our review efforts on the higher-value properties or properties with 11 TABLE OF CONTENTS known adverse conditions and will sample the remainder. However, even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems or permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their condition, any deficiencies, and development potential. Inspections may not be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as ground water contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Market conditions or transportation impediments may hinder access to oil and gas markets or delay production. Market conditions, the unavailability of satisfactory oil and natural gas transportation or the remote location of our drilling operations may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay production. The availability of a ready market for oil and gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines or trucking and terminal facilities. In deepwater operations, the availability of a ready market depends on the proximity of and our ability to tie into existing production platforms owned or operated by others and the ability to negotiate commercially satisfactory arrangements with the owners or operators. We may be required to shut in wells or delay initial production for lack of a market or because of inadequacy or unavailability of pipeline or gathering system capacity. When that occurs, we will be unable to realize revenue from those wells until the production can be tied to a gathering system. This can result in considerable delays from the initial discovery of a reservoir to the actual production of the oil and gas and realization of revenues. In some cases, our wells may be tied back to platforms owned by parties with no economic interests in these wells. There can be no assurance that owners of such platforms will continue to operate the platforms. If the owners cease to operate the platforms or their processing equipment, we may be required to shut in the associated wells, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We will not be the operator on all of our properties and therefore will not be in a position to control the timing of development efforts, the associated costs, or the rate of production of the reserves on such properties. As we carry out our planned drilling program, we will not serve as operator of all planned wells. We currently operate approximately 75 percent of our properties. As a result, we may have limited ability to exercise influence over the operations of some non-operated properties or their associated costs. Dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects, and limited ability to influence operations and associated costs could prevent the realization of targeted returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities. The success and timing of development and exploitation activities on properties operated by others depend upon a number of factors that will be largely outside of our control, including: • the timing and amount of capital expenditures; • the availability of suitable offshore drilling rigs, drilling equipment, support vessels, production and transportation infrastructure and qualified operating personnel; • the operator’s expertise and financial resources; • approval of other participants in drilling wells; • selection of technology; and • the rate of production of the reserves. Our insurance may not protect us against business and operating risks. We maintain insurance for some, but not all, of the potential risks and liabilities associated with our business. For some risks, we may not obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially, and in some instances, certain insurance policies are economically unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. As a result, we procure other desirable insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if possible. Although we will maintain insurance at levels we believe is appropriate and consistent with industry practice, we will not be fully insured against all risks, 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS including business interruption insurance which cannot be sourced on economic terms, and drilling and completion risks that are generally not recoverable from third parties or insurance. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Losses and liabilities from uninsured and underinsured events and delay in the payment of insurance proceeds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As a result of a number of recent catastrophic events like the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 and Hurricanes Ivan, Katrina and Rita, insurance underwriters increased insurance premiums for many of the coverages historically maintained and issued general notices of cancellation and significant changes for a wide variety of insurance coverages. The oil and natural gas industry suffered extensive damage from Hurricanes Ivan, Katrina and Rita. As a result, insurance costs have increased significantly from the costs that similarly situated participants in this industry have historically incurred. Insurers are requiring higher retention levels and limit the amount of insurance proceeds that are available after a major wind storm in the event that damages are incurred. If storm activity in the future is as severe as it was in 2005, insurance underwriters may no longer insure Gulf of Mexico assets against weather-related damage. A number of industry participants have previously maintained business interruption insurance. This insurance may not be economically available in the future, which could adversely impact business prospects in the Gulf of Mexico and adversely impact our operations. If an accident or other event resulting in damage to our operations, including severe weather, terrorist acts, war, civil disturbances, pollution or environmental damage, occurs and is not fully covered by insurance or a recoverable indemnity from a customer, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, we may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable or be able to obtain insurance against certain risks. Our operations will be subject to environmental and other government laws and regulations that are costly and could potentially subject us to substantial liabilities. Crude oil and natural gas exploration and production operations in the United States and the Gulf of Mexico are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations. Companies operating in the Gulf of Mexico are subject to laws and regulations addressing, among others, land use and lease permit restrictions, bonding and other financial assurance related to drilling and production activities, spacing of wells, unitization and pooling of properties, environmental and safety matters, plugging and abandonment of wells and associated infrastructure after production has ceased, operational reporting and taxation. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations can subject us to governmental sanctions, such as fines and penalties, as well as potential liability for personal injuries and property and natural resources damages. We may be required to make significant expenditures to comply with the requirements of these laws and regulations, and future laws or regulations, or any adverse change in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations, could increase such compliance costs. Regulatory requirements and restrictions could also delay or curtail our operations and could have a significant impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Our oil and gas operations are subject to stringent laws and regulations relating to the release or disposal of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations: • require the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences; • restrict the types, quantities and concentration of substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities; • limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; and • impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in: • the imposition of administrative, civil and/or criminal penalties; • incurring investigatory or remedial obligations; and • the imposition of injunctive relief. 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our industry in general and on our own results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. Although we intend to be in compliance in all material respects with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with existing or new regulations. In addition, the risk of accidental spills, leakages or other circumstances could expose us to extensive liability. We are unable to predict the effect of additional environmental laws and regulations which may be adopted in the future, including whether any such laws or regulations would materially adversely increase our cost of doing business or affect operations in any area. Under certain environmental laws and regulations, we could be held strictly liable for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination regardless of whether we were responsible for the release or contamination, or if current or prior operations were conducted consistent with accepted standards of practice. Such liabilities can be significant, and if imposed could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Other Risks If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may be unable to provide the required financial information in a timely and reliable manner and may be subject to sanctions by regulatory authorities. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related regulations implemented by the SEC, are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. We are evaluating our internal controls systems to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, our internal controls. We will be performing the system and process evaluation and testing (and any necessary remediation) required to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. While we anticipate being able to fully implement the requirements relating to internal controls and all other aspects of Section 404 by our June 30, 2008 deadline, we cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations since there is presently no precedent available by which to measure compliance adequacy. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities such as the SEC. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results or investors’ confidence in our company. In addition, the controls and procedures that we will implement may not comply with all of the relevant rules and regulations of the SEC. If we fail to develop and maintain effective controls and procedures, we may be unable to provide the financial information in a timely and reliable manner. We depend on key personnel, the loss of any of whom could materially adversely affect future operations. Our success will depend to a large extent upon the efforts and abilities of our executive officers. The loss of the services of one or more of these key employees could have a material adverse effect on us. Our business will also be dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Acquiring and keeping these personnel could prove more difficult or cost substantially more than estimated. This could cause us to incur greater costs, or prevent us from pursuing our exploitation strategy as quickly as we would otherwise wish to do. Unanticipated decommissioning costs could materially adversely affect our future financial position and results of operations. We may become responsible for unanticipated costs associated with abandoning and reclaiming wells, facilities and pipelines. Abandonment and reclamation of facilities and the costs associated therewith is often referred to as “decommissioning.” Should decommissioning be required that is not presently anticipated, such costs may exceed the value of reserves remaining at any particular time. We may have to draw on funds from other sources to satisfy such costs. The use of other funds to satisfy such decommissioning costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS If we are unable to acquire or renew permits and approvals required for operations, we may be forced to suspend or cease operations altogether. The construction and operation of energy projects require numerous permits and approvals from governmental agencies. We may not be able to obtain all necessary permits and approvals, and as a result our operations may be adversely affected. In addition, obtaining all necessary permits and approvals may necessitate substantial expenditures and may create a risk of expensive delays or loss of value if a project is unable to function as planned due to changing requirements or local opposition. We may be taxed as a United States Corporation. We are incorporated under the laws of Bermuda because of our long-term desire to have substantial business interests outside the U.S. and recent legislation in the U.S. that penalizes domestic corporations that reincorporate in a foreign country. We plan to purchase any U.S. assets through our wholly owned subsidiary Energy XXI USA, Inc. Energy XXI USA, Inc. and its subsidiaries will pay U.S. taxes on U.S. income. We do not currently intend to engage in any business activity in the U.S. However, there is a risk that some or all of our income could be challenged, and considered as effectively connected to a U.S. trade or business, and therefore subject to U.S. taxation. In consideration of this risk, we and our U.S. subsidiaries will implement certain operational steps to separate the U.S. operations from our other operations. In general, employees based in the U.S. will be employees of our U.S. subsidiaries, and will be paid for their services by such U.S. subsidiaries. Salaries of our employees who are resident in the U.S. and who render services to the U.S. business activities will be allocated as expenses of the U.S. subsidiaries. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS 