Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following are some important factors that could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those referred to or implied in any forward-looking statement. These are in addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the Company’s other filings with the SEC. Our dependence on loans secured by real estate subjects us to risks relating to fluctuations in the real estate market and related interest rates and legislation that could result in significant additional costs and capital requirements that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Approximately 70.1% of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2011 was comprised of loans collateralized by real estate, with 100% of the real estate located in New Jersey. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. The real estate markets in New Jersey deteriorated in the last several years. A continued weakening of the real estate market in our primary market areas could have an adverse effect on the demand for new loans, the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, the value of real estate and other collateral securing the loans and the value of real estate owned by us. As real estate values decline, it is also more likely that we would be required to make provisions for additional loan losses, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Current market conditions include an over-supply of land, lots and finished homes in many markets, including those where we do business. As of December 31, 2011, we had $51.2 million, or 9.6%, of our total loans in real estate construction loans. Of this amount, $1.9 million were land loans and $33.4 million were made to finance residential construction with an identified purchaser. Substantially all of these loans are located in Monmouth and Union counties, New Jersey. Further, $15.9 million of real estate construction loans were made to finance commercial construction. Construction loans are subject to risks during the construction phase that are not present in standard residential real estate and commercial real estate loans. These risks include: · the viability of the contractor; · the value of the project being subject to successful completion; · the contractor’s ability to complete the project, to meet deadlines and time schedules and to stay within cost estimates; and · concentrations of such loans with a single contractor and its affiliates. Real estate construction loans also present risks of default in the event of declines in property values or volatility in the real estate market during the construction phase. If we are forced to foreclose on a project prior to completion, we may not be able to recover the entire unpaid portion of the loan, may be required to fund additional amounts to complete a project and may have to hold the property for an indeterminate amount of time. If any of these risks were to occur, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The federal banking agencies have issued guidance regarding high concentrations of commercial real estate loans within bank loan portfolios. The guidance requires financial institutions that exceed certain levels of commercial real estate lending compared with their total capital to maintain heightened risk management practices that address the following key elements: including board and management oversight and strategic planning, portfolio management, development of underwriting standards, risk assessment and monitoring through market analysis and stress testing, and maintenance of increased capital levels as needed to support the level of commercial real estate lending. If there is any deterioration in our commercial real estate or real estate construction portfolios or if our regulators conclude that we have not implemented appropriate risk management practices, it could adversely affect our business and result in a requirement of increased capital levels, and such capital may not be available at that time. Our commercial real estate and commercial loans expose us to increased credit risks, and these risks will increase if we succeed in increasing these types of loans. We focus our lending efforts on commercial-related loans and intend to grow commercial real estate and commercial loans further as a proportion of our portfolio. As of December 31, 2011, commercial real estate loans and commercial and industrial loans totaled $407.6 million. In general, commercial real estate loans and commercial and industrial loans yield higher returns and often generate a deposit relationship, but also pose greater credit risks than do owner-occupied residential real estate loans. As our various commercial-related loan portfolios increase, the corresponding risks and potential for losses from these loans will also increase. We make both secured and some unsecured commercial and industrial loans. Unsecured loans generally involve a higher degree of risk of loss than do secured loans because, without collateral, repayment is wholly dependent upon the success of the borrowers’ businesses. Secured commercial and industrial loans are generally collateralized by accounts receivable, inventory, equipment or other assets owned by the borrower and include a personal guaranty of the business owner. Compared to real estate, that type of collateral is more difficult to monitor, its value is harder to ascertain, it may depreciate more rapidly and it may not be as readily saleable if repossessed. Further, commercial and industrial loans generally will be serviced primarily from the operation of the business, which may not be successful, and commercial real estate loans generally will be serviced from income on the properties securing the loans. 17 Our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected if our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to absorb actual losses or if we are required to increase our allowance. Despite our underwriting criteria, we may experience loan delinquencies and losses. In order to absorb losses associated with non-performing loans, we maintain an allowance for loan losses based on, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions, and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Determination of the allowance inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. At any time there are likely to be loans in our portfolio that will result in losses but that have not been identified as non-performing or potential problem credits. We cannot be sure that we will be able to identify deteriorating credits before they become non-performing assets or that we will be able to limit losses on those loans that are identified. We may be required to increase our allowance for loan losses for any of several reasons. State and federal regulators, in reviewing our loan portfolio as part of a regulatory examination, may request that we increase our allowance for loan losses. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in our allowance. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed our allowance for loan losses, we will need additional increases in our allowance for loan losses. Any increases in our allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in our net income and, possibly, our capital, and may materially affect our results of operations in the period in which the allowance is increased. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the U.S. and global credit markets may adversely impact our operations and results. Since 2008, negative developments in the capital markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the expectation of the general economic uncertainty continuing through much of 2011. Loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions resulting from, amongst other factors, a weak economy and a decline in the value of the collateral supporting their loans. The competition for our deposits has increased significantly due to liquidity concerns at many of these same institutions. Stock prices of bank holding companies, like ours, have been negatively affected by the current condition of the financial markets, as has our ability, if needed, to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. As a result, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement actions. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments could negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. Difficult market conditions and economic trends in the real estate market have adversely affected our industry and our business. We are particularly affected by downturns in the U. S. real estate market. Dramatic declines in the real estate market over the past two years, with decreasing property values and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, may have a negative impact on the credit performance of commercial and construction, mortgage, and consumer loan portfolios resulting in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many loans have declined and may continue to decline. General downward economic trends, reduced availability of commercial credit and increased unemployment levels may negatively impact the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers. This market turmoil and tightening of credit has led to increased commercial and consumer deficiencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. A worsening of these economic conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the industry. Our ability to properly assess the creditworthiness of customers and to estimate the losses inherent in our credit exposure is made more complex by these difficult market and economic conditions. Accordingly, if these market conditions and trends continue, we may experience increases in foreclosures, delinquencies and customer bankruptcies, as well as more restricted access to funds. 18 The Company’s profitability depends significantly on local economic conditions. The Company’s success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the primary markets in New Jersey in which it operates and where its loans are concentrated. Unlike nationwide banks that are more geographically diversified, the Company provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in Monmouth and Union counties, New Jersey. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the Company’s commercial and industrial, real estate and construction loans, the ability of its borrowers to repay their loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. In addition, if the population or income growth in the Company’s market areas is slower than projected, income levels, deposits and housing starts could be adversely affected and could result in a reduction of the Company’s expansion, growth and profitability. Although economic conditions in Monmouth and Union counties, New Jersey have not deteriorated to the same extent as in other areas of the country, such conditions could decline further. If the Company’s market areas experience a downturn or a recession for a prolonged period of time, the Company could experience significant increases in nonperforming loans, which could lead to operating losses, impaired liquidity and eroding capital. A significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, outbreaks of hostilities or other international or domestic calamities, unemployment, monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government or other factors could impact these local economic conditions and could negatively affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The small to medium-sized businesses that the Company lends to may have fewer resources to weather a downturn in the economy, which may impair a borrower’s ability to repay a loan to the Company that could materially harm the Company’s operating results. The Company targets its business development and marketing strategy primarily to serve the banking and financial services needs of small to medium-sized businesses. These small to medium-sized businesses frequently have smaller market share than their competition, may be more vulnerable to economic downturns, often need substantial additional capital to expand or compete and may experience significant volatility in operating results. Any one or more of these factors may impair the borrower’s ability to repay a loan. In addition, the success of a small to medium-sized business often depends on the management talents and efforts of one or two persons or a small group of persons, and the death, disability or resignation of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on the business and its ability to repay a loan. Economic downturns and other events that negatively impact the Company’s market areas could cause the Company to incur substantial credit losses that could negatively affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock. In addition, our future ability to pay dividends is subject to restrictions. We have not paid any dividends to our holders of common stock in the past and we currently do not intend to pay any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In the event that we decide to pay dividends, there are a number of restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. It is the policy of the Federal Reserve that bank holding companies should pay cash dividends on common stock only out of income available over the past year and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs and financial condition. The policy provides that bank holding companies should not maintain a level of cash dividends that undermines the bank holding company’s ability to serve as a source of strength to its banking subsidiaries. If we fail to pay dividends on our SBLF Preferred Shares, we will be prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock. Our principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock will be cash dividends that we receive from the Bank. The payment of dividends by the Bank to us is subject to certain restrictions imposed by federal and state banking laws, regulations and authorities. The federal banking statutes prohibit federally insured banks from making any capital distributions (including a dividend payment) if, after making the distribution, the institution would be “under capitalized” as defined by statute. In addition, the relevant federal regulatory agencies have authority to prohibit an insured bank from engaging in an unsafe or unsound practice, as determined by the agency, in conducting an activity. The payment of dividends could be deemed to constitute such an unsafe or unsound practice, depending on the financial condition of the Bank. Regulatory authorities could impose administratively stricter limitations on the ability of the Bank to pay dividends to us if such limits were deemed appropriate to preserve certain capital adequacy requirements. The dividend rate on the SBLF Preferred Shares we issued in connection with the SBLF will fluctuate initially from 1% to 5% based on our level of “Qualified Small Business Lending,” or “QSBL,” as compared to our “baseline” level. The cost of the capital we received from the SBLF Preferred Shares will increase if the level of our “QSBL” as of June 30, 2013 does not represent an increase from our “baseline” level. This cost also will increase if we have not redeemed the SBLF Preferred Shares within 4.5 years of the closing of the SBLF transaction. The per annum dividend rate on the SBLF Preferred Shares can fluctuate on a quarterly basis during the first ten quarters during which the SBLF Preferred Shares is outstanding, based upon changes in the amount of qualified small business lending (QSBL), as defined in the Supplemental Reports related to the SBLF transaction, from a “baseline” level (QSBL Baseline). The dividend rate for the initial dividend period was 3.2% per annum. For the second dividend period through the tenth dividend period, the annual dividend rate may be adjusted to between 1% and 5%, to reflect the amount of percentage change in the Bank’s level of QSBL from the QSBL Baseline to the level as of the end of the second quarter preceding the dividend period in question. For the eleventh dividend period through 4.5 years after the closing of the SBLF transaction, the annual dividend rate will be fixed at between 1% and 5%, based upon the percentage increase in QSBL from the QSBL Baseline to the level as of the end of the ninth dividend period (i.e., as of September 30, 2013); however, if there is no increase in QSBL from the QSBL Baseline to the level as of the end of the ninth dividend period (or if QSBL has decreased during that time period), the dividend rate will be fixed at 7%. Further, the potential dividend rate reduction in any period is limited, such that the reduction will not apply to any Series B Preferred Stock proceeds that exceed the dollar amount of the increase in QSBL for that period as compared to the QSBL Baseline. 19 In addition, if our QSBL is not above the QSBL Baseline at the end of March 31, 2013, because of our participation in TARP CPP, we must also pay a lending incentive fee of 2% per annum (payable quarterly), calculated based on the liquidation value of the outstanding SBLF Preferred Shares as of the end of that quarter, beginning with dividend payment dates on or after April 1, 2014 and ending on April 1, 2016. After 4.5 years from the closing of the SBLF transaction, the annual dividend rate will be fixed at 9%, regardless of the level of QSBL. Depending on our financial condition at the time, any such increases in the dividend rate could have a material negative effect on our liquidity. Future dividend payments and common stock repurchases are subject to certain restrictions by the terms of the Secretary of the Treasury’s equity investment in us. Under the terms of the SBLF, for so long as any preferred stock issued under the SBLF remains outstanding, we are prohibited from making a dividend payment or share repurchase if, after the payment or repurchase, our Tier 1 capital would not be at least 90% of the amount existing at the time immediately after September 27, 2011, excluding any subsequent net charge-offs and partial repayments of the SBLF funding. This 90% limitation will decrease by a dollar amount equal to 10% of the SBLF funding for every 1% increase in QSBL that we have achieved over the QSBL Baseline. These restrictions will no longer apply to us after we have repaid the SBLF funding in full. Failure to pay dividends on our SBLF Preferred Shares may have negative consequences, including external involvement in the Company’s board of directors. If dividends on the SBLF Preferred Shares are not paid in full for six quarterly dividend periods, whether or not consecutive, and if the aggregate liquidation preference amount of the then-outstanding shares of SBLF Preferred Shares is at least $25.0 million, the total number of positions on our board of directors will automatically increase by two and the holders of the SBLF Preferred Shares, acting as a single class, will have the right to elect two individuals to serve in the new director positions. This right and the terms of such directors will end when we have paid full dividends for at least four consecutive quarterly dividend periods. If full dividends have not been paid on the SBLF Preferred Shares for five or more quarterly dividend periods, whether or not consecutive, we must invite a representative selected by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of SBLF Preferred Shares, voting as a single class, to attend all meetings of our board of directors in a nonvoting observer capacity. Any such representative would not be obligated to attend any board meeting to which he or she is invited, and this right will end when we have paid full dividends for at least four consecutive dividend periods. Our preferred shares impact net income available to our common stockholders and our earnings per share. The dividends declared on the SBLF Preferred Shares reduce net income available to common shareholders and our earnings per common share. The SBLF Preferred Shares will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company. Changes in interest rates could reduce our income, cash flows and asset values. Our income and cash flows and the value of our assets depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates we earn on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates we pay on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors which are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence not only the interest we receive on our loans and investment securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings but will also affect our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits and the value of our investment portfolio. If the rate of interest we pay on our deposits and other borrowings increases more than the rate of interest we earn on our loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore our earnings, could be adversely affected. Our earnings also could be adversely affected if the rates on our loans and other investments fall more quickly than those on our deposits and other borrowings. Competition may decrease our growth or profits. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors, including commercial banks, savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks, credit unions, consumer finance companies, factoring companies, leasing companies, insurance companies and money market mutual funds. There is very strong competition among financial services providers in our principal service area. Our competitors may have greater resources, higher lending limits or larger branch systems than we do. Accordingly, they may be able to offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can. 20 In addition, some of the financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on federally insured financial institutions such as the Bank. As a result, those non-bank competitors may be able to access funding and provide various services more easily or at less cost than we can, adversely affecting our ability to compete effectively. We rely on our management and other key personnel, and the loss of any of them may adversely affect our operations. We are and will continue to be dependent upon the services of our executive management team. The Company’s performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. There is intense competition in the financial services industry for qualified employees. In addition, the Company faces increasing competition with businesses outside the financial services industry for the most highly skilled individuals. The unexpected loss of services of any key management personnel or commercial loan officers could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition because of their skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. The Company’s business operations could be adversely affected if it were unable to attract new employees and retain and motivate its existing employees. We may be adversely affected by government regulation. The banking industry is heavily regulated. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect the federal deposit insurance funds and depositors, not shareholders. Changes in the laws, regulations, and regulatory practices affecting the banking industry may increase our costs of doing business or otherwise adversely affect us and create competitive advantages for others. Regulations affecting banks and financial services companies undergo continuous change, and we cannot predict the ultimate effect of these changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability or financial condition. The anti-money laundering, or AML, and bank secrecy, or BSA, laws have imposed far-reaching and substantial requirements on financial institutions. The enforcement policy with respect to AML/BSA compliance has been vigorously applied throughout the industry, with regulatory action taking various forms. We believe that our policies and procedures with respect to combating money laundering are effective and that our AML/BSA policies and procedures are reasonably designed to comply with current applicable standards. We cannot provide assurance that in the future we will not face a regulatory action, adversely affecting our ability to acquire banks or open new branches. Environmental liability associated with lending activities could result in losses. In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing our loans. If hazardous substances were discovered on any of these properties, we could be liable to governmental entities or third parties for the costs of remediation of the hazard, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Many environmental laws can impose liability regardless of whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the contamination. In addition, if we arrange for the disposal of hazardous or toxic substances at another site, we may be liable for the costs of cleaning up and removing those substances from the site even if we neither own nor operate the disposal site. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially limit use of properties we acquire through foreclosure, reduce their value or limit our ability to sell them in the event of a default on the loans they secure. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Failure to implement new technologies in our operations may adversely affect our growth or profits. The market for financial services, including banking services and consumer finance services is increasingly affected by advances in technology, including developments in telecommunications, data processing, computers, automation, Internet-based banking and telebanking. Our ability to compete successfully in our markets may depend on the extent to which we are able to exploit such technological changes. However, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to properly or timely anticipate or implement such technologies or properly train our staff to use such technologies. Any failure to adapt to new technologies could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. A limited market exists for our common stock. Our common stock commenced trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market on April 4, 2006 and trading volumes since that time have been modest. The limited trading market for our common stock may cause fluctuations in the market value of our common stock to be exaggerated, leading to price volatility in excess of that which would occur in a more active trading market. Accordingly, you may have difficulty selling our common stock at prices which you find acceptable or which accurately reflect the value of the Company. 21 We are subject to liquidity risk. Liquidity risk is the potential that we will be unable to meet our obligations as they become due, capitalize on growth opportunities as they arise, or pay regular cash dividends because of an inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding in a timely basis, at a reasonable cost and within acceptable risk tolerances. Liquidity is required to fund various obligations, including credit commitments to borrowers, mortgage and other loan originations, withdrawals by depositors, repayment of borrowings, dividends to shareholders, operating expenses and capital expenditures. Liquidity is derived primarily from retail deposit growth and retention; principal and interest payments on loans; principal and interest payments on and the sale, maturity and prepayment of investment securities; net cash provided from operations and access to other funding sources. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole as evidenced by turmoil faced by banking organizations in 2008 in the domestic and worldwide credit markets. Future offerings of debt or other securities may adversely affect the market price of our stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources or, if our or the Bank’s capital ratios fall below the required minimums, we or the Bank could be forced to raise additional capital by making additional offerings of debt or preferred equity securities, including medium-term notes, trust preferred securities, senior or subordinated notes and preferred stock. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing shareholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. The Company may lose lower-cost funding sources. Checking, savings, and money market deposit account balances and other forms of customer deposits can decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing a better risk/return tradeoff. If customers move money out of bank deposits and into other investments, the Company could lose a relatively low-cost source of funds, increasing its funding costs and reducing the Company’s net interest income and net income. The Company is subject to operational risk. The Company faces the risk that the design of its controls and procedures, including those to mitigate the risk of fraud by employees or outsiders, may prove to be inadequate or are circumvented, thereby causing delays in detection of errors or inaccuracies in data and information. Management regularly reviews and updates the Company’s internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Company’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company may also be subject to disruptions of its systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond its control (including, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages), which may give rise to losses in service to customers and to financial loss or liability. The Company is further exposed to the risk that its external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as is the Company) and to the risk that the Company’s (or its vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 22 