ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. If any of these events contemplated by the following risks actually occur, then our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, there are several risk factors relating to the proposed merger with US BioEnergy, as more fully set forth below. Solely for purposes of this Item 1A, all references to “our,” “we” and “us” refer both to VeraSun and, assuming completion of the contemplated merger with US BioEnergy, the combined company after giving effect to such transaction. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS Our results of operations, financial position and business will be highly dependent on commodity prices, which are subject to significant volatility and uncertainty, and the availability of supplies, so our respective results could fluctuate substantially. Our results are substantially dependent on commodity prices, especially prices for corn, natural gas, ethanol and unleaded gasoline. As a result of the volatility of the prices for these items, our results may fluctuate substantially and we may experience periods of declining prices for our products and increasing costs for our raw materials, which could result in operating losses. Although we may attempt to offset a portion of the effects of fluctuations in prices by entering into forward contracts to supply ethanol or purchase corn, natural gas or other items or by engaging in transactions involving exchange-traded futures contracts, the amount and duration of these hedging and other risk mitigation activities may vary substantially over time and these activities also involve substantial risks. See “We engage in hedging transactions and other risk mitigation strategies that could harm our results of operations.” Our business is highly sensitive to corn prices and we generally cannot pass on increases in corn prices to our customers. Corn is the principal raw material used to produce ethanol and dry and wet distillers grains. As a result, changes in the price of corn can significantly affect our business. Rising corn prices result in higher cost of ethanol and distillers grains. Because ethanol competes with non-corn-based fuels, we generally are unable to pass along increased corn costs to our customers. At certain levels, corn prices may make ethanol uneconomical to use in fuel markets. Corn costs constituted approximately 60.4% of our total cost of goods sold for the twelve months ended December 31, 2007, compared to 49.5% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006. Over the ten-year period from 1998 through 2007, corn prices (based on the Chicago Board of Trade (the “CBOT”) daily futures data) have ranged from a low of $1.75 per bushel on August 11, 2000 to a high of $4.55 per bushel on December 31, 2007, with prices averaging $2.42 per bushel during this period. The biofuels industry has experienced significantly higher corn prices commencing in the fourth quarter of 2006, which have remained in 2007 at substantially higher levels than in 2006. In the year ended December 31, 2007, CBOT corn prices have ranged from a low of $3.10 per bushel to a high of $4.55 per bushel, with prices averaging $3.73 per bushel. At February 29, 2008, the CBOT price per bushel of corn for March delivery was $5.46. If these higher corn prices continue, they may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. The price of corn is influenced by weather conditions and other factors affecting crop yields, farmer planting decisions and general economic, market and regulatory factors. These factors include government policies and subsidies with respect to agriculture and international trade, and global and local demand and supply. The significance and relative effect of these factors on the price of corn is difficult to predict. Any event that tends to negatively affect the supply of corn, such as adverse weather or crop disease, could increase corn prices and potentially harm our business. Increasing domestic ethanol capacity could boost the demand for corn 11 Table of Contents and result in increased corn prices. In 2006, corn bought by ethanol plants represented approximately 18% of the total corn supply for that year according to results reported by the National Corn Growers Association, and this percentage is expected to increase as additional ethanol capacity comes online, rising to more than 30% of the total corn supply by 2009/2010 according to the United States Department of Agriculture or USDA. In addition, the price any of the companies pay for corn at a facility could increase if an additional ethanol production facility is built in the same general vicinity. We may also have difficulty, from time to time, in physically sourcing corn on economical terms due to supply shortages. Such a shortage could require us to suspend our operations until corn is available at economical terms, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. The spread between ethanol and corn prices can vary significantly and may not return to recent high levels. Our gross margin depends principally on the spread between ethanol and corn prices. During the five-year period from 2003 through 2007, ethanol prices (based on average U.S. ethanol rack prices from Bloomberg (“Bloomberg”)) have ranged from a low of $1.11 per gallon to a high of $3.98 per gallon, averaging $1.90 per gallon during this period. For the year ended December 31, 2007, ethanol prices averaged $2.12 per gallon, reaching a high of $2.50 per gallon and a low of $1.69 per gallon (based on the daily closing prices from Bloomberg). In early 2006, the spread between ethanol and corn prices was at historically high levels, driven in large part by oil companies removing a competitive product, MTBE, from the fuel stream and replacing it with ethanol in a relatively short time period. However, this spread has fluctuated widely and narrowed significantly during 2007. Fluctuations are likely to continue to occur. A sustained narrow spread or any further reduction in the spread between ethanol and corn prices, whether as a result of sustained high or increased corn prices or sustained low or decreased ethanol prices, would adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Further, it is possible that ethanol prices could decline below our marginal cost of production, which could cause us to suspend production of ethanol at some or all of our plants. The market for natural gas is subject to conditions that create uncertainty in the price and availability of the natural gas that is used in the ethanol manufacturing process. We rely upon third parties for our supply of natural gas, which is consumed as fuel in the manufacture of ethanol. The prices for and availability of natural gas are subject to volatile market conditions. These market conditions often are affected by factors beyond our control, such as weather conditions (including hurricanes), overall economic conditions and foreign and domestic governmental regulation and relations. Significant disruptions in the supply of natural gas could impair our ability to manufacture ethanol for our customers. Furthermore, increases in natural gas prices or changes in our natural gas costs relative to natural gas costs paid by competitors may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Natural gas costs represented approximately 10.2% of our cost of goods sold for the twelve months ended December 31, 2007, compared to 15.9% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006. The price fluctuations in natural gas prices over the eight-year period from 2000 through 2007, based on the New York Mercantile Exchange, or NYMEX, daily futures data, have ranged from a low of $1.83 per MMBTU on September 26, 2001 to a high of $15.38 per MMBTU on December 13, 2005, averaging $5.63 per MMBTU during this period. At February 29, 2008, the NYMEX price of natural gas for April delivery was $9.37 per MMBTU. Fluctuations in the selling price and production cost of gasoline may reduce our profit margins. Ethanol is marketed both as an important fuel component to reduce vehicle emissions from gasoline and as an octane enhancer to improve the octane rating of gasoline with which it is blended. As a result, ethanol prices are influenced by the supply and demand for gasoline and our future results of operations and financial position may be materially adversely affected if gasoline demand or prices decrease. Historically, the price of a gallon of gasoline has been lower than the cost to produce a gallon of ethanol. In addition, some of our sales contracts provide for pricing on an indexed basis, so that the price we receive for products sold under these arrangements is adjusted as gasoline prices change. 12 Table of Contents The price of distillers grains is affected by the price of other commodity products, such as soybeans, and decreases in the price of these commodities could decrease the price of distillers grains. Distillers grains compete with other protein-based animal feed products. The price of distillers grains may decrease when the price of competing feed products decrease. The prices of competing animal feed products are based in part on the prices of the commodities from which they are derived. Downward pressure on commodity prices, such as soybeans, will generally cause the price of competing animal feed products to decline, resulting in downward pressure on the price of distillers grains. Because the price of distillers grains is not tied to production costs, decreases in the price of distillers grains will result in our generating less revenue and lower profit margins. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Our operating results are influenced by seasonal fluctuations in the price of our primary operating inputs, corn and natural gas, and the price of our primary product, ethanol. In recent years, the spot price of corn tended to rise during the spring planting season in May and June and tended to decrease during the fall harvest in October and November. The price of natural gas, however, tends to move opposite of corn and tends to be lower in the spring and summer and higher in the fall and winter. In addition, ethanol prices are substantially correlated with the price of unleaded gasoline. The price of unleaded gasoline tends to rise during the summer. Given our limited history and the growth of the industry, it is unclear how these seasonal fluctuations will affect our results over time. We engage in hedging transactions and other risk mitigation strategies that could harm our results of operations. In an attempt to partially offset the effects of volatility of ethanol prices and corn and natural gas costs, we enter into contracts to supply a portion of our respective ethanol production or purchase a portion of our respective corn or natural gas requirements on a forward basis and also engage in other hedging transactions involving exchange-traded futures contracts for corn, natural gas and unleaded gasoline from time to time. The price of unleaded gasoline also affects the price received for ethanol under indexed contracts entered into by us. The financial statement impact of these activities is dependent upon, among other things, the prices involved and our ability to sell sufficient products to use all of the corn and natural gas for which we have futures contracts. Hedging arrangements also expose us to the risk of financial loss in situations where the other party to the hedging contract defaults on its contract or, in the case of exchange-traded contracts, where there is a change in the expected differential between the price of the commodity underlying the hedging agreement and the actual prices paid or received by us for the physical commodity bought or sold. Hedging activities can themselves result in losses when a position is purchased in a declining market or a position is sold in a rising market. A hedge position is often settled in the same time frame as the physical commodity is either purchased (corn and natural gas) or sold (ethanol). Hedging losses may be offset by a decreased cash price for corn and natural gas and an increased cash price for ethanol. We also vary the amount of hedging or other risk mitigation strategies we undertake, and we may choose not to engage in hedging transactions at all. As a result, our results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected by increases in the price of corn or natural gas or decreases in the price of ethanol or unleaded gasoline. We may not be able to implement our expansion strategy as planned or at all. We plan to grow our business by investing in new or existing plants and pursuing other business opportunities. Additional financing may be necessary to implement these expansion strategies, which may not be accessible or may not be available on acceptable terms. Any expansion may be financed with additional indebtedness or by issuing additional equity securities, which would further dilute shareholders’ interests. In addition, as described below under “We may be adversely affected by environmental, health and safety laws, 13 Table of Contents regulations and liabilities,” federal and state governmental requirements may substantially increase our costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Any expansion plans may also result in other unanticipated adverse consequences, such as the diversion of management’s attention from existing operations. Construction costs associated with expansion may also increase to levels that would make a new plant too expensive to complete or unprofitable to operate. Contractors, engineering firms, construction firms and equipment suppliers also receive requests and orders from other ethanol companies and, therefore, it may become hard or impossible to secure their services or products on a timely basis or on acceptable financial terms. We may suffer significant delays or cost overruns as a result of a variety of factors, such as shortages of workers or materials, transportation constraints, adverse weather, unforeseen difficulties or labor issues, any of which could prevent commencement of operations as expected at any new facilities. The expansion strategies also depend on prevailing market conditions for the price of ethanol and the costs of corn and natural gas and expectations of future market conditions. In October 2007, we suspended construction of our Reynolds facility due to market conditions. If market conditions do not improve as anticipated, we could lose our investment in this facility and could incur additional costs associated with terminating various construction contracts. We also may not proceed with construction at other development sites and could incur losses associated with our investments in those sites. The significant expansion of ethanol production capacity currently underway in the U.S. may also impede any expansion strategy. As a result of this expansion within the ethanol industry, we believe that there is increasing competition for suitable sites for ethanol plants, and we may not find suitable sites for construction of new plants or other suitable expansion opportunities. Even if suitable sites or opportunities are identified, we may not be able to secure the services and products from the contractors, engineering firms, construction firms and equipment suppliers necessary to build ethanol plants on a timely basis or on acceptable economic terms. Accordingly, we may not be able to implement our expansion strategies as planned or at all. We may not find additional appropriate sites for new plants and we may not be able to finance, construct, develop or operate these new or expanded plants successfully. Acquisitions could be difficult to find and integrate, divert the attention of key personnel, disrupt business, and adversely affect our financial results. As part of our business strategy, we may consider acquisitions of building sites, production plants, storage or distribution facilities and selected infrastructure. In August 2007, we completed the acquisition of ASA OpCo Holdings, LLC (“ASA Acquisition”). It may be difficult to find additional suitable acquisition opportunities. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, any of which could harm our business, including: • difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products, existing contracts, accounting processes and personnel of the target and realizing the anticipated synergies of the combined businesses; • difficulties in building an ethanol plant on a purchased site, including obtaining zoning and other required permits; • risks relating to environmental hazards on purchased sites; • risks relating to acquiring or developing the infrastructure needed for facilities or acquired sites, including access to rail networks; • difficulties in supporting and transitioning customers, if any, of the target company or assets; • diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; 14 Table of Contents • the purchase price or other devoted resources may exceed the value realized, or the value we could have realized if the purchase price or other resources had been allocated to another opportunity; • risks of entering new markets or areas in which we have limited or no experience or are outside our core competencies; • potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic alliances from either our current business or the business of the target; • assumption of unanticipated problems or latent liabilities, such as problems with the quality of the products of the target; and • inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs and development costs. We also may pursue acquisitions through joint ventures or partnerships. Partnerships and joint ventures typically involve restrictions on actions that the partnership or joint venture may take without the approval of the partners. These types of provisions may limit our ability to manage a partnership or joint venture in a manner that is in our best interest but is opposed by our other partner or partners. Future acquisitions may involve the issuance of equity securities as payment or in connection with financing the business or assets acquired, and as a result, could dilute the ownership interests of you. In addition, additional debt and related interest expense may be necessary in order to consummate these transactions, as well as to assume unforeseen liabilities, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The failure to successfully evaluate and execute acquisitions or joint ventures or otherwise adequately address the risks associated with acquisitions or joint ventures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For risks relating to the proposed merger of VeraSun and US BioEnergy, see “Risk Factors Relating to the Proposed Merger with US BioEnergy” below. Our goodwill could become impaired and write-downs on the value of such goodwill may be required. The proposed merger of VeraSun and US BioEnergy will be accounted for by us using the purchase method of accounting. Under this method of accounting, the purchase price will be allocated to the fair value of the net assets acquired. The excess purchase price over the fair value of the tangible and identified intangible assets acquired will be allocated to goodwill. As a result of the merger, we expect to have significant goodwill, and as of December 31, 2007, we had goodwill of approximately $169.6 million resulting from prior transactions. Current accounting rules require that goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets be assessed for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, then a goodwill impairment test is performed to measure the amount of the impairment loss, if any. The goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as in a business combination. Determining the fair value of the implied goodwill is judgmental in nature and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions could have a significant impact on whether or not an impairment charge is recognized and also the magnitude of any such charge. Estimates of fair value are determined primarily using discounted cash flows and market comparisons. These approaches use significant estimates and assumptions, including projection and timing of future cash flows, discount rates reflecting the risk inherent in future cash flows, perpetual growth rates, determination of appropriate market comparables, and determination of whether a premium or discount should be applied to comparables. Therefore, changes in commodity prices or the price of our stock may impact the goodwill impairment analysis. If our actual results are worse than the plans and estimates used to assess the recoverability of the assets in connection with the proposed merger, or previous transactions entered into by us, or our plans and estimates are otherwise incorrect, we could incur impairment charges relating to the goodwill resulting from such transactions, including up to the full amount of such goodwill. 15 Table of Contents Growth in the sale and distribution of ethanol is dependent on the changes to and expansion of related infrastructure which may not occur on a timely basis, if at all, and our operations could be adversely affected by infrastructure disruptions. Substantial development of infrastructure will be required by persons and entities outside of our control for our operations, and the ethanol industry generally, to grow. Areas requiring expansion include, but are not limited to: • additional rail capacity; • additional storage facilities for ethanol; • increases in truck fleets capable of transporting ethanol within localized markets; • expansion of refining and blending facilities to handle ethanol; • growth in service stations equipped to handle ethanol fuels; and • growth in the fleet of flexible fuel vehicles, or FFVs, capable of using E85 fuel. The rapid expansion of the ethanol industry currently underway compounds the issues presented by the need to develop and expand ethanol related infrastructure, as the lack of infrastructure prevents the use of ethanol in certain areas where there might otherwise be demand and results in excess ethanol supply in areas with more established ethanol infrastructure, depressing ethanol prices in those areas. Substantial investments required for these infrastructure changes and expansions may not be made or they may not be made on a timely basis. Any delay or failure by us in making the changes to or expansion of infrastructure could hurt the demand or prices for products, impede delivery of products, impose additional costs or otherwise have a material adverse effect on results of operations or financial position. Our business is dependent on the continuing availability of infrastructure and any infrastructure disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not achieve anticipated operating results and our financial position may be adversely affected if we do not successfully develop a corn oil extraction business. Our anticipated operating results and financial position may depend in part on our ability to develop and operate planned corn oil extraction facilities successfully. We plan to extract corn oil from distillers grains, a co-product of the ethanol production process, and to sell the oil or convert it into biodiesel. We have contracted with Crown Iron Works Company for the purchase of corn oil extraction equipment. Large scale extraction of corn oil from distillers grains, as contemplated, is unproven, and we may not achieve planned operating results. Our operating results and financial position will be affected by events or conditions associated with the development, operation and cost of the planned corn oil extraction equipment, including: • the outcome of negotiations with government agencies, vendors, customers or others, including, for example, our ability to negotiate favorable contracts with customers, or the development of reliable markets; • changes in development and operating conditions and costs, including costs of services, equipment and construction; • unforeseen technological difficulties, including problems that may delay startup or interrupt production or that may lead to unexpected downtime, or construction delays; • corn prices and other market conditions, including competition from other producers of corn oil; • government regulation; and • development of transportation, storage and distribution infrastructure supporting the facilities and the biodiesel industry generally. 16 Table of Contents We have a limited operating history and business may not be as successful as envisioned. We began our business in 2001, and our operating facilities have less than five years of commercial operations. Accordingly, we have a limited operating history from which you can evaluate our business and prospects. In addition, our prospects must be considered in light of the risks and uncertainties encountered by a company with limited operating history in rapidly evolving markets, such as the ethanol market, where supply and demand may change significantly in a short amount of time. Some of these risks relate to our potential inability to: • effectively manage business and operations; • successfully execute plans to sell ethanol directly to customers; • recruit and retain key personnel; • successfully maintain a low-cost structure through the expansion of scale in business; • manage rapid growth in personnel and operations; • develop new products that complement existing business; and • successfully address the other risks described throughout this Annual Report on form 10-K. If we cannot successfully address these risks, our business and our results of operations and financial position may suffer. New plants under construction or decreases in the demand for ethanol may result in excess production capacity in the ethanol industry, which may cause the price of ethanol and/or distillers grains to decrease. According to the RFA, domestic ethanol production capacity has increased from 1.8 billion gallons per year (“BGY”) as of January 2001 to approximately 8.2 BGY as of March 4, 2008. The RFA estimates that, as of March 4, 2008, approximately 5.3 BGY of additional production capacity is under construction. The ethanol industry in the U.S. now consists of more than 140 production facilities. Excess capacity in the ethanol industry would have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. In a manufacturing industry with excess capacity, producers have an incentive to manufacture additional products for so long as the price exceeds the marginal cost of production (i.e., the cost of producing only the next unit, without regard for interest, overhead or fixed costs). This incentive could result in the reduction of the market price of ethanol to a level that is inadequate to generate sufficient cash flow to cover costs. Excess capacity may also result from decreases in the demand for ethanol, which could result from a number of factors, including, but not limited to, regulatory developments and reduced U.S. gasoline consumption. Reduced gasoline consumption could occur as a result of increased prices for gasoline or crude oil, which could cause businesses and consumers to reduce driving or acquire vehicles with more favorable gasoline mileage or acquire hybrid vehicles. In addition, because ethanol production produces distillers grains as a co-product, increased ethanol production will also lead to increased supplies of distillers grains. An increase in the supply of distillers grains, without corresponding increases in demand, could lead to lower prices or an inability to sell our distillers grains production. A decline in the price of distillers grains or the distillers grains market generally could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to compete effectively in our industry. In the U.S., there is competition with other corn processors, ethanol producers and refiners, including Archer Daniels Midland Company, US BioEnergy, POET, LLC, Hawkeye Renewables, LLC, Aventine Renewable Energy Holdings, Inc. (“Aventine”), and Cargill . As of March 1, 2008, the top five producers accounted for approximately 41% of the ethanol production capacity in the U.S. according to the RFA. A number 17 Table of Contents of our competitors are divisions of substantially larger enterprises and have substantially greater financial resources than we do. Smaller competitors also pose a threat. Farmer-owned cooperatives and independent firms consisting of groups of individual farmers and investors have been able to compete successfully in the ethanol industry. These smaller competitors operate smaller facilities that do not affect the local price of corn grown in the proximity of the facility as much as larger facilities do. In addition, many of these smaller competitors are farmer owned and often require their farmer-owners to commit to selling them a certain amount of corn as a requirement of ownership. Most new ethanol plants under development across the country are individually owned. In addition to domestic competition, we also face increasing competition from international suppliers. Currently there is a $0.54 per gallon tariff on foreign produced ethanol which is scheduled to expire January 1, 2009. If this tariff is not renewed, competition from international suppliers would increase. Ethanol imports equivalent up to 7% of total domestic production in any given year from various countries were exempted from this tariff under the Caribbean Basin Initiative to spur economic development in Central America and the Caribbean. Currently, international suppliers produce ethanol primarily from sugar cane and have cost structures that may be substantially lower than ours. Any increase in domestic or foreign competition could cause us to reduce our prices and take other steps to compete effectively, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Our competitive position, financial position and results of operations may be adversely affected by technological advances and our efforts to anticipate and employ such technological advances may prove unsuccessful. The development and implementation of new technologies may result in a significant reduction in the costs of ethanol production. For instance, any technological advances in the efficiency or cost to produce ethanol from inexpensive, cellulosic sources such as wheat, oat or barley straw could have an adverse effect on our business, because our facilities are designed to produce ethanol from corn, which is, by comparison, a raw material with other high value uses. We do not predict when new technologies may become available, the rate of acceptance of new technologies by competitors or the costs associated with new technologies. In addition, advances in the development of alternatives to ethanol could significantly reduce demand for or eliminate the need for ethanol. We plan to invest over time on projects and companies engaged in research, development and commercialization of processes for conversion of cellulosic material to ethanol. These investments will be early- and mid-stage and highly speculative. The use of cost-effective and efficient cellulosic material in the production of ethanol is unproven. There is no assurance when, if ever, commercially viable technology will be developed. Nor can there be any assurance that we can identify suitable investment opportunities, that such development will be the product of any investment we make in this technology and that we will not lose our investments in whole or in part, or that if developed by others it will be available to producers such as us on commercially reasonable terms. Any advances in technology which require significant unanticipated capital expenditures to remain competitive or which reduce demand or prices for ethanol would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. In addition, alternative fuels, additives and oxygenates are continually under development. Alternative fuel additives that can replace ethanol may be developed, which may decrease the demand for ethanol. It is also possible that technological advances in engine and exhaust system design and performance could reduce the use of oxygenates, which would lower the demand for ethanol, and our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents The U.S. ethanol industry is highly dependent upon federal and state legislation and regulation and any changes in legislation or regulation could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. The elimination or significant reduction in the blenders’ credit could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. The cost of production of ethanol is made significantly more competitive with regular gasoline by federal tax incentives. The federal excise tax incentive program currently allows gasoline distributors who blend ethanol with gasoline to receive a federal excise tax rate reduction for each blended gallon they sell. If the fuel is blended with 10% ethanol, the refiner/marketer pays $0.051 per gallon less tax, which equates to an incentive of $0.51 per gallon of ethanol. The $0.51 per gallon incentive for ethanol is scheduled to be reduced to $0.46 per gallon in 2009 and to expire in 2010. The blenders’ credits could be eliminated or reduced at any time through an act of Congress and may not be renewed in 2010 or may be renewed on different terms. In addition, the blenders’ credits, as well as other federal and state programs benefiting ethanol (such as tariffs), generally are subject to U.S. government obligations under international trade agreements, including those under the World Trade Organization Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures, and might be the subject of challenges thereunder, in whole or in part. Ethanol can be imported into the U.S. duty-free from some countries, which may undermine the ethanol industry in the U.S. Imported ethanol is generally subject to a $0.54 per gallon tariff that was designed to offset the $0.51 per gallon ethanol incentive that is available under the federal excise tax incentive program for refineries that blend ethanol in their fuel. A special exemption from the tariff exists for ethanol imported from 24 countries in Central America and the Caribbean Islands, which is limited to a total of 7% of U.S. production per year. Imports from the exempted countries may increase as a result of new plants under development. Since production costs for ethanol in these countries are estimated to be significantly less than what they are in the U.S., the duty-free import of ethanol through the countries exempted from the tariff may negatively affect the demand for domestic ethanol and the price at which we sell ethanol. Although the $0.54 per gallon tariff has been extended through December 31, 2008, bills were previously introduced in both the U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate to repeal the tariff. We do not know the extent to which the volume of imports would increase or the effect on U.S. prices for ethanol if the tariff is not renewed beyond its current expiration. Any changes in the tariff or exemption from the tariff could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial position. In addition, the North America Free Trade Agreement, or NAFTA, which entered into force on January 1, 1994, allows Canada and Mexico to export ethanol to the United States duty-free or at a reduced rate. Canada is exempt from duty under the current NAFTA guidelines, while Mexico’s duty rate is $0.10 per gallon. The effect of the renewable fuel standard (“RFS”) program in the Energy Independence and Security Act signed into law on December 19, 2007 (the “2007 Act”) is uncertain. The mandated minimum level of use of renewable fuels in the RFS under the 2007 Act increased to 9 billion gallons per year in 2008 (from 5.4 billion gallons under the RFS enacted in 2005), further increasing to 36 billion gallons per year in 2022. The 2007 Act also requires the increased use of “advanced” biofuels, which are alternative biofuels produced without using corn starch such as cellulosic ethanol and biomass-based diesel, with 21 billion gallons of the mandated 36 billion gallons of renewable fuel required to come from advanced biofuels by 2022. Required RFS volumes for both general and advanced renewable fuels in years to follow 2022 will be determined by a governmental administrator, in coordination with the U.S. Department of Energy and U.S. Department of Agriculture. Increased competition from other types of biofuels could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial position. See “Our competitive position, financial position and results of operations may be adversely affected by technological advances and efforts to anticipate and employ such technological advances may prove unsuccessful.” The RFS program and the 2007 Act also include provisions allowing “credits” to be granted to fuel producers who blend in their fuel more than the required percentage of renewable fuels in a given year. These credits may be used in subsequent years to satisfy RFS production percentage and volume standards and may be 19 Table of Contents traded to other parties. The accumulation of excess credits could further reduce the impact of the RFS mandate schedule and result in a lower ethanol price or could result in greater fluctuations in demand for ethanol from year to year, both of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition. Waivers of the RFS minimum levels of renewable fuels included in gasoline could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. Under the RFS as passed as part of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of Energy, may waive the renewable fuels mandate with respect to one or more states if the Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or “EPA”, determines upon the petition of one or more states that implementing the requirements would severely harm the economy or the environment of a state, a region or the U.S., or that there is inadequate supply to meet the requirement. In addition, the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 allows any other person subject to the requirements of the RFS or the EPA Administrator to file a petition for such a waiver. Any waiver of the RFS with respect to one or more states could adversely offset demand for ethanol and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition. Various studies have criticized the efficiency of ethanol, in general, and corn-based ethanol in particular, which could lead to the reduction or repeal of incentives and tariffs that promote the use and domestic production of ethanol or otherwise negatively impact public perception and acceptance of ethanol as an alternative fuel. Although many trade groups, academics and governmental agencies have supported ethanol as a fuel additive that promotes a cleaner environment, others have criticized ethanol production as consuming considerably more energy and emitting more greenhouse gases than other biofuels and as potentially depleting water resources. Other studies have suggested that corn-based ethanol is less efficient than ethanol produced from switchgrass or wheat grain and that it negatively impacts consumers by causing prices for dairy, meat and other foodstuffs from livestock that consume corn to increase. If these views gain acceptance, support for existing measures promoting use and domestic production of corn-based ethanol could decline, leading to reduction or repeal of these measures. These views could also negatively impact public perception of the ethanol industry and acceptance of ethanol as an alternative fuel. We may be adversely affected by environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and liabilities. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to the discharge of materials into the air, water and ground, the generation, storage, handling, use, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials, and the health and safety of employees. In addition, some of these laws and regulations require our facilities to operate under permits that are subject to renewal or modification. These laws, regulations and permits can often require expensive pollution control equipment or operational changes to limit actual or potential impacts to the environment. A violation of these laws and regulations or permit conditions can result in substantial fines, natural resource damages, criminal sanctions, permit revocations and/or facility shutdowns. In addition, we have made significant capital expenditures on an ongoing basis to comply with increasingly stringent environmental laws, regulations and permits. We may be liable for the investigation and cleanup of environmental contamination at each of the properties we own or operate and at off-site locations where we arrange for the disposal of hazardous substances. If these substances have been or are disposed of or released at sites that undergo investigation and/or remediation by regulatory agencies, we may be responsible under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, or CERCLA, or other environmental laws for all or part of the costs of investigation and/or remediation, and for damages to natural resources. We may also be subject to related claims by private parties alleging property damage and personal injury due to exposure to hazardous or other materials at or from those properties. Some of these matters may require us to expend significant amounts for investigation, cleanup or other costs. 20 Table of Contents In addition, new laws, new interpretations of existing laws, increased governmental enforcement of environmental laws or other developments could require additional significant expenditures. Continued government and public emphasis on environmental issues can be expected to result in increased future investments for environmental controls at our production facilities. Present and future environmental laws and regulations (and interpretations thereof) applicable to our operations, more vigorous enforcement policies and discovery of currently unknown conditions may require substantial expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on results of operations and financial position. The hazards and risks associated with producing and transporting our products (such as fires, natural disasters, explosions, and abnormal pressures and blowouts) may also result in personal injury claims or damage to property and third parties. As protection against operating hazards, we maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses. However, losses could be sustained for uninsurable or uninsured risks, or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. Events that result in significant personal injury or damage to our property or third parties or other losses that are not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial position. We are dependent on our respective production facilities, and any operational disruption may result in a reduction of sales volumes, which could cause substantial losses. Our revenues are derived from the sale of ethanol and the related co-products produced at our facilities. A major accident or damage by severe weather or other natural disasters may cause significant interruptions at such facilities. In addition, our operations may be subject to labor disruptions and unscheduled downtime, or other operational hazards inherent in the ethanol industry, such as equipment failures, fires, explosions, abnormal pressures, blowouts, pipeline ruptures, transportation accidents and natural disasters. Some of these operational hazards may cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment or environmental damage, and may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. Our insurance may not be adequate to fully cover the potential operational hazards described above and such insurance may not be renewable on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Moreover, the operation of our plants is subject to various uncertainties, including uncertainties relating to the effectiveness of process improvements designed to achieve increased production capacities. As a result, our plants may not produce ethanol and distillers grains at the levels we expect and our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Disruptions to infrastructure, or in the supply of fuel, natural gas or water, could materially and adversely affect our business. Our business depends on the continuing availability of rail, road, port, storage and distribution infrastructure. Any disruptions in this infrastructure network, whether caused by labor difficulties, earthquakes, storms, other natural disasters, human error or malfeasance or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely upon third-parties to maintain the rail lines from their plants to the national rail network, and any failure on these third parties’ part to maintain the lines could impede the delivery of products, impose additional costs and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We also depend on the continuing availability of raw materials, including fuel and natural gas. The production of ethanol, from the planting of corn to the distribution of ethanol to refiners, is highly energy-intensive. Significant amounts of fuel and natural gas are required for the growing, fertilizing and harvesting of corn, as well as for the fermentation, distillation and transportation of ethanol and the drying of distillers grains. A serious disruption in supplies of fuel or natural gas, including as a result of delivery curtailments to industrial customers due to extremely cold weather, or significant increases in the prices of fuel or natural gas, could significantly reduce the availability of raw materials at our plants, increase production costs and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 21 Table of Contents Our ethanol plants also require a significant and uninterrupted supply of water of suitable quality to operate. If there is an interruption in the supply of water for any reason, one or more plants may be required to halt production. If production is halted at one or more of these plants for an extended period of time, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operating results may suffer if our direct and indirect marketing and sales efforts are not effective. On March 31, 2007, we terminated our agreements with Aventine regarding the marketing and sale of our ethanol and, on April 1, 2007, we commenced direct sales of our ethanol to customers, except for the ethanol produced at the facilities acquired in the ASA Acquisition. In connection with this activity, we have established our own marketing, transportation and storage infrastructure. We lease tanker railcars and have contracted with storage depots near our customers and at our strategic locations for efficient delivery of our finished ethanol product. We have also hired a marketing and sales force, as well as logistical and other operational personnel to staff our distribution activities. The marketing, sales, distribution, transportation, storage or administrative efforts we have implemented may not achieve results comparable to those achieved by marketing through Aventine. Any failure to successfully execute these efforts would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Our financial results also may be adversely affected by our need to establish inventory in storage locations to facilitate this transition. Further, ethanol produced at certain of our facilities is or will be marketed by Cargill under agreements that remained in place after closing of the ASA Acquisition. We also compete with Cargill for sales of ethanol and distillers grains. Our direct marketing and sales efforts may be less efficient as a result of the marketing relationships with Cargill. We are dependent upon our officers for management and direction, and the loss of any of these persons could adversely affect our operations and results. We are dependent upon our officers for implementation of our expansion strategy and execution of our business plan. The loss of any of these officers could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations and our financial position. We do not have employment agreements with our officers or other key personnel. In addition, we do not maintain “key person” life insurance for any of our respective officers. The loss of any of these officers could delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. Competition for qualified personnel in the ethanol industry is intense and we may not be able to hire and retain qualified personnel to operate our ethanol plants. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain competent personnel. For each of our plants, qualified managers, engineers, operations and other personnel must be hired, which can be challenging in a rural community. Competition for both managers and plant employees in the ethanol industry is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel. If we are unable to hire and retain productive and competent personnel, our expansion strategy may be adversely affected, the amount of ethanol we produce may decrease and we may not be able to efficiently operate our ethanol plants and execute our business strategy. Operations at our new facilities and additional planned facilities are subject to various uncertainties, which may cause them to not achieve results comparable to existing operational plants. New plants and additional planned facilities will be subject to various uncertainties as to their ability to produce ethanol and co-products as planned, including the potential for failures of key equipment. Such a failure during test operations delayed the startup process at our Fort Dodge facility, which is now operating at full capacity, in the fall of 2005. Due to these uncertainties, the results of new facilities or additional planned facilities may not be comparable to those of existing operational plants. 22 Table of Contents Our debt level could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. As of December 31, 2007, our total debt was $905.5 million (net of unaccreted discount of $3.0 million). Under agreements governing our debt, we may be able to incur a significant amount of additional debt from time to time. If we do so, the risks related to high levels of debt could increase. In addition, if we complete our acquisition of US BioEnergy, our consolidated total outstanding debt would be increased because US BioEnergy’s debt would remain outstanding after the acquisition. Specifically, our high level of debt could have significant consequences to our shareholders, including the following: • requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to required payments on debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for working capital, capital expenditures and other general business activities; • limiting the ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate and other activities; • limiting the flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the business and industry in which we operate; • increasing our vulnerability to both general and industry-specific adverse economic conditions; • being at a competitive disadvantage against less leveraged competitors; • being vulnerable to increases in prevailing interest rates; • subjecting all or substantially all of our assets to liens, which means that there may be no assets left for shareholders in the event of a liquidation; and • limiting our ability to make business and operational decisions regarding our business and subsidiaries, including, among other things, limiting our ability to pay dividends to our respective shareholders, make capital improvements, sell or purchase assets or engage in transactions deemed appropriate and in our best interest. Some of our debt bears interest at variable rates, which creates exposure to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations with respect to the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income would decrease. We are a holding company, and there are limitations on our ability to receive distributions from our subsidiaries. We conduct all of our operations through subsidiaries and are dependent upon dividends or other intercompany transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. Moreover, some of our subsidiaries are currently, or are expected in the future to be, limited in their ability to pay dividends or make distributions to us by the terms of their financing agreements. Actions of third parties may result in a default or mandatory prepayments under the ASA Senior Credit Facility. The ASA Senior Credit Facility contains customary events of default and also includes events of default based on certain actions by Fagen, Inc., the design-builder of the Linden, Albion and Bloomingburg facilities controlled by Ron Fagen, the beneficial owner of approximately 19% of US BioEnergy’s common stock, Cargill, and other third parties that provide goods and services to the facilities, including actions that are unrelated to the construction and operation of the facilities. In particular, the material breach by any such third parties of their agreements relating to the facilities, the failure of any such third parties to pay their indebtedness, including trade payables, and the entry of material judgments or the occurrence of an insolvency event with respect to any such third party would constitute an event of default under the Senior Credit Facility. The parties to the ASA Senior 23 Table of Contents Credit Facility have no control over such third parties and could experience an event of default with no ability to cure the default. In that event, the lenders could demand payment of all indebtedness outstanding under the Senior Credit Facility under circumstances where alternative financing may be unavailable or available on unfavorable terms. If the parties to the ASA Senior Credit Facility were unable to obtain alternative financing to pay the Senior Credit Facility, the lenders could foreclose on the Linden, Albion, and Bloomingburg facilities and VeraSun’s and the combined company’s investment in those facilities could be lost. The parties to the ASA Senior Credit Facility also may be required to make mandatory prepayments under this credit agreement if the Volumetric Ethanol Excise Tax Credit expires or is scheduled to expire less than eighteen months after July 1, 2009. Certain of our shareholders exert significant influence over us. Their interests may not coincide with ours or the interests of our other shareholders, and these certain shareholders may make decisions with which we or our other shareholders may disagree. Our executive officers and directors as a group beneficially own approximately 38.5% of our outstanding common stock, including Donald L. Endres, our chief executive officer, who beneficially owns approximately 35.1% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, Gordon W. Ommen, US BioEnergy’s chief executive officer, Ron Fagen and CHS Inc. beneficially own approximately 8.2%, 18.3% and 19.9% of US BioEnergy’s common stock, respectively, and US BioEnergy’s executive officers, directors and principal shareholders, i.e., shareholders holding more than 5% of US BioEnergy’s common stock, including Gordon W. Ommen, Ron Fagen and CHS Inc., together control approximately 46.4% of its common stock. Based on these ownership percentages, Messrs. Endres, Ommen and Fagen and CHS Inc. will own in the aggregate approximately 39.7% of our outstanding common stock following the proposed merger with US BioEnergy. As a result, these shareholders, acting individually or together, could significantly influence our management and affairs and all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us and might affect the market price of our common stock. The interests of these shareholders may not coincide with our interests or the interests of our other shareholders. For instance, Capitaline Advisors, LLC, a private equity investment management firm specializing in renewable energy investments which is 100% owned and controlled by Gordon W. Ommen, and Fagen, Inc., the leading builder of ethanol plants in the U.S., which is owned and controlled by Ron Fagen, have invested and may continue to invest in a number of other ethanol producers. For example, Capitaline Advisors currently has an investment in Big River Resources, LLC, US BioEnergy’s joint venture partner for the Grinnell plant. As a result of these and other potential conflicting interests, these existing shareholders may make decisions with respect to us with which we or our other shareholders may disagree. We do not own or control some of the assets we depend on to operate our business. We depend on Cargill and its subsidiaries for various services at the ethanol facilities we acquired in the ASA Acquisition, including corn procurement, the marketing and sale of ethanol and distillers grains produced at the facilities and risk management. As a result, our results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected if Cargill does not perform these services in an efficient manner. We are subject to financial reporting and other requirements, and we will become subject to additional financial reporting and other requirements, in each case for which our accounting, internal audit and other management systems and resources may not be adequately prepared. We have experienced material weaknesses in our internal controls. We are subject to reporting and other obligations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 requires annual management assessment of the effectiveness of a company’s internal controls over financial reporting and a report by its independent registered public accounting firm addressing the effectiveness of our internal controls 24 Table of Contents over financial reporting. These reporting and other obligations place significant demands on our management, administrative, operational, internal audit and accounting resources. If we are unable to meet these demands in a timely and effective fashion, our ability to comply with our financial reporting requirements and other rules that apply to us could be impaired. Any failure to maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In connection with the audit of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2006, we identified several material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting relating to inadequate monitoring of accounting recognition matters and significant accounting estimates, including derivative financial instruments and income taxes, and deficiencies in our financial closing process. A “material weakness” is a significant deficiency, or a combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the financial statements will not be prevented or detected. A “significant deficiency” is a control deficiency, or a combination of control deficiencies, that adversely affects an entity’s ability to initiate, authorize, record, process or report financial data reliably in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles such that there is more than a remote likelihood that a misstatement of the entity’s financial statements that is more than inconsequential will not be prevented or detected. We believe that we have remediated these weaknesses, but we cannot assure you that we will have no future deficiencies or weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. Any failure to remediate any material weaknesses that we may identify or to implement new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. Some provisions contained in our articles of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of South Dakota law, could impair a takeover attempt. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws and South Dakota law contain several provisions that may make it substantially more difficult for a third-party to acquire control of us without the approval of our board of directors. This may make it more difficult or expensive for a third-party to acquire a majority of our outstanding common stock. These provisions also may delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer, proxy contest or other transaction that might otherwise result in our shareholders receiving a premium over the market price for their common stock. RISK FACTORS RELATING TO THE PROPOSED MERGER WITH US BIOENERGY Our failure to complete the proposed merger with US BioEnergy could negatively impact our stock price and our future business and financial results. Completion of the proposed merger is conditioned upon, among other things, the approval and adoption of the merger agreement and the approval of the merger by US BioEnergy shareholders, the approval of the issuance of our common stock in the merger by our shareholders. In addition, the merger agreement contains other customary closing conditions, which may not be satisfied or waived. The merger agreement also contains certain termination rights held by US BioEnergy and us. If for any reason we are unable to complete the merger, we would be subject to a number of risks, including the following: • we may be required, under certain circumstances, to pay US BioEnergy a termination fee of $61 million; • we may not realize the benefits of the proposed merger, including any synergies from combining the two companies; • we will incur and will remain liable for significant transaction costs, including legal, accounting, financial advisory, filing, printing and other costs relating to the merger, whether or not it is completed; 25 Table of Contents • the diversion of our management team’s time and attention away from day-to-day operations could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results; • we could lose otherwise attractive business opportunities due to restrictions under the merger agreement; • our business may be harmed to the extent that customers, suppliers and others believe that we cannot effectively compete in the marketplace without the merger, or otherwise remain uncertain about our company; • we would continue to be exposed to the general competitive pressures and risks discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and such pressures and risks may be increased if the merger is not completed; and • the trading price of our common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the merger will be completed. The occurrence of any of these events, individually or in combination, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations or the trading price of our common stock. Although we expect that the proposed merger will result in benefits to us, we may not realize those benefits because of integration and other challenges. Our failure to meet the challenges involved in integrating our and US BioEnergy’s operations successfully or otherwise to realize any of the anticipated benefits of the proposed merger could seriously harm our results of operations. Realizing the benefits of the proposed merger will depend in part on the integration of operations and personnel. The integration of companies is a complex and time-consuming process that, without proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt our business. The challenges involved in integration include the following: • difficulties in integrating operations, existing contracts, accounting processes and employees and realizing the anticipated synergies of the combined businesses; • diversion of financial resources from existing operations; • minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; • the price we pay or other resources that we devote may exceed the value we realize, or the value we could have realized if we had allocated the purchase price or other resources to another opportunity; • potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic alliances from either our current business or the business of US BioEnergy; • assumption of unanticipated problems or latent liabilities; and • general competitive factors in the market place. We may not successfully integrate the operations of VeraSun and US BioEnergy in a timely manner, or at all, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits or synergies of the merger to the extent, or in the timeframe, anticipated. The anticipated benefits and synergies are based on projections and assumptions, not actual experience, and assume a successful integration. In addition to the integration risks discussed above, our ability to realize these benefits and synergies could be adversely impacted by practical constraints on our ability to combine operations. 26 Table of Contents In order to be successful, we must retain and motivate key employees and failure to do so could seriously harm us. In order to be successful, we must retain and motivate executives and other key employees. Our current employees or US BioEnergy employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with us until or after our post-merger strategies are announced or executed. These circumstances may adversely affect our ability to retain key personnel. We also must continue to motivate employees and keep them focused on our strategies and goals, which may be particularly difficult due to the potential distractions of the merger. If we are unable to manage growth profitably, our business and financial results could suffer. Our future financial results will depend in part on our ability to profitably manage our core businesses, including any growth that we may be able to achieve. Since our incorporation, we have engaged in the identification of, and competition for, growth and expansion opportunities. In order to achieve those initiatives, we will need to maintain existing customers and attract new customers, recruit, train, retain and effectively manage employees, as well as expand operations, customer support and financial control systems. If we are unable to manage our businesses profitably, including any growth that we may be able to achieve, our business and financial results could suffer. In our proposed merger with US BioEnergy, the exchange ratio is fixed and will not be adjusted in the event of any change in either our or US BioEnergy’s stock price. Accordingly, because the market price of our common stock may fluctuate, at the time of the our special meeting of shareholders, our shareholders cannot be sure of the market value of the consideration that we will pay in the merger. Upon completion of the proposed merger, US BioEnergy shareholders will receive consideration equal to 0.810 shares of VeraSun common stock for each share of US BioEnergy common stock they own. The 0.810 to 1 exchange ratio was agreed upon in the merger agreement, and will not be adjusted due to any increases or decreases in the price of VeraSun or US BioEnergy common stock. In addition, neither party has a right to terminate the merger agreement based solely upon changes in the market price of VeraSun’s common stock or US BioEnergy’s common stock, and the merger agreement contains no other provisions that would limit the impact of increases or decreases in the market price of VeraSun’s or US BioEnergy’s common stock. As a result, any changes in the value of VeraSun’s common stock will have a corresponding effect on the value of the consideration that VeraSun pays to US BioEnergy shareholders in the merger. The market price of VeraSun common stock at the time of completion of the merger may vary significantly from the price on the date of the merger agreement or from the price on the date that VeraSun shareholders and US BioEnergy shareholders submit proxies for their respective shareholders’ meetings or the dates of such shareholders’ meetings. These variations may be caused by a variety of factors, including: • changes in the business, operations and prospects of VeraSun or US BioEnergy; • changes in market assessments of the business, operations and prospects of the combined company; • market assessments of the likelihood that the proposed merger will be completed; • interest rates, general market and economic conditions and other factors generally affecting the price of VeraSun’s common stock and US BioEnergy’s common stock; • conditions in the biofuels industry generally; • changes in market prices for ethanol, distillers grains or raw materials, such as corn or natural gas; • VeraSun’s ability to raise additional capital; and • changes in federal, state and local legislation, governmental regulation and other legal developments affecting VeraSun or US BioEnergy. 27 Table of Contents VeraSun common stock has historically experienced volatility. The closing price of VeraSun common stock on the NYSE on November 28, 2007, the day prior to the announcement of the merger agreement, was $ 10.64 per share. From November 28, 2007 through February 29, 2008, the trading price of VeraSun common stock ranged from a high of $17.75 per share to a low of $8.59 per share. The market price of VeraSun common stock may continue to fluctuate prior to completion of the merger, which would result in corresponding fluctuations in the value of the consideration paid by VeraSun to US BioEnergy shareholders in the merger. In addition, because the proposed merger will be consummated after the VeraSun special meeting, at the time of the VeraSun special meeting VeraSun shareholders may not be sure of the market value of the VeraSun common stock that US BioEnergy shareholders will receive upon completion of the merger and VeraSun may pay more for shares of US BioEnergy common stock than the value calculated on the date of the VeraSun special meeting. Similarly, because the date that the merger is completed may be later than the date of the US BioEnergy special meeting, at the time of the US BioEnergy special meeting US BioEnergy shareholders may not be sure of the market value of the VeraSun common stock they will receive upon completion of the merger or the market value of VeraSun common stock at any time after the completion of the merger. We urge you to obtain current market quotations for VeraSun and US BioEnergy common stock. The issuance of shares of VeraSun common stock to US BioEnergy shareholders in the proposed merger will substantially reduce the percentage ownership interest of current VeraSun shareholders. If the proposed merger is completed, VeraSun will issue approximately 64.5 million shares of VeraSun common stock in the merger. Based on the number of shares of VeraSun and US BioEnergy common stock outstanding on the VeraSun and US BioEnergy record dates, US BioEnergy shareholders before the merger will own, in the aggregate, approximately 41% of the shares of VeraSun common stock outstanding immediately after the merger. The issuance of shares of VeraSun common stock to US BioEnergy shareholders in the merger and to holders of assumed options and restricted stock awards to acquire shares of US BioEnergy common stock will cause a significant reduction in the relative percentage interest of current VeraSun shareholders in earnings, voting, liquidation value and book and market value of VeraSun. Charges to earnings resulting from the application of the purchase method of accounting may adversely affect the market value of VeraSun’s common stock following the proposed merger. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, the combined company will account for the merger using the purchase method of accounting, which will result in charges to VeraSun’s earnings that could adversely affect the market value of the common stock of VeraSun following completion of the proposed merger. Under the purchase method of accounting, the combined company will allocate the total purchase price to US BioEnergy’s net tangible assets, amortizable intangible assets and intangible assets with indefinite lives based on their fair values as of the date of completion of the merger, and record the excess of the purchase price over the fair values of the identified tangible and intangible assets as goodwill. The combined company will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired in connection with the merger. In addition, to the extent the value of goodwill or intangible assets becomes impaired, the combined company may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. These depreciation, amortization and potential impairment charges could have a material impact on the combined company’s results of operations and adversely affect the market value of VeraSun’s common stock. Some of the directors and executive officers of US BioEnergy and VeraSun have interests in the proposed merger that are different from, or in addition to, those of US BioEnergy’s and VeraSun’s other shareholders. Certain directors of US BioEnergy and VeraSun have arrangements or other interests that provide them with interests in the proposed merger that are different from, or in addition to, those of US BioEnergy’s or VeraSun’s other shareholders. For example, Donald L. Endres, the CEO of VeraSun, who is also a director of VeraSun, will, pursuant to the merger agreement, remain CEO of VeraSun and will also remain on the board of directors of 28 Table of Contents VeraSun following the merger, and Gordon W. Ommen, the President and CEO of US BioEnergy, will become non-executive chairman of the board of directors of VeraSun following the merger. In addition, three other US BioEnergy directors and all of the other VeraSun directors may serve on VeraSun’s board following the merger. While other US BioEnergy directors will not become directors of the combined company after the merger, VeraSun will maintain liability insurance and US BioEnergy’s directors will be indemnified for services as directors of US BioEnergy before the merger. Certain officers of VeraSun and US BioEnergy also have change in control agreements and participate in equity incentive plans provided by VeraSun or US BioEnergy that will provide them with certain enhanced protections and acceleration of equity awards if the merger occurs. In addition, two directors of US BioEnergy are executive officers of entities that have commercial arrangements with US BioEnergy, and one of these entities also has commercial arrangements with VeraSun. The merger agreement limits the ability of VeraSun to pursue alternatives to the proposed merger, and in certain instances requires payment of a termination fee, which could deter a third party from proposing an alternative transaction to the merger. The merger agreement contains terms and conditions that make it more difficult for VeraSun to enter into an alternative transaction to the proposed merger. These “no shop” provisions impose restrictions on VeraSun that, subject to certain exceptions, limit VeraSun’s ability to discuss, facilitate or commit to competing third party proposals to acquire all or a significant part of VeraSun. Moreover, under specified circumstances, VeraSun could be required to pay US BioEnergy a termination fee of $61 million in connection with the termination of the merger agreement. This termination fee could deter a third party from proposing an alternative to the merger. VeraSun and US BioEnergy shareholders have no dissenters’ rights of appraisal. Under the public company exception in Section 47-1A-1302 of the South Dakota Business Corporation Act, shareholders of VeraSun and US BioEnergy are not entitled to appraisal rights in connection with the merger. Accordingly, neither company’s shareholders have the right to seek a judicial determination for the fair value of those shares. Sales of a substantial number of shares of VeraSun’s common stock after completion of the proposed merger could cause the price of VeraSun’s common stock to decline. Under the terms of the shareholders agreements entered into concurrently with the merger agreement, for 180 days following the completion of the proposed merger, Donald L. Endres, in his capacity as a shareholder of VeraSun, and certain principal shareholders of US BioEnergy who will receive VeraSun common stock in the merger and who, together with Mr. Endres, in the aggregate will own a significant percentage of the common stock of VeraSun, will be limited in their ability to sell an amount of such shares equal to approximately 25% of the total number of shares of VeraSun common stock to be outstanding following the merger. However, upon the expiration of the 180 days, such shares will become eligible for sale. Sales of a substantial number of these shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of VeraSun’s common stock to decline and could impair the ability of VeraSun shareholders to sell their shares of VeraSun common stock in the amounts and at such times and prices as they may desire. In addition, the sale of these shares could impair VeraSun’s ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. Our common stock price has been volatile and you may lose all or part of your investment. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly since our IPO. Future fluctuations could be based on various factors in addition to those otherwise described in this report, including: • our operating performance and the performance of our competitors; • the public’s reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; 29 Table of Contents • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who follow us or other companies in our industry; • variations in general economic conditions; • the registration rights granted by us with respect to shares of our common stock that were issued in connection with our acquisition from ASAlliances Biofuels, LLC; • the number of shares that are publicly traded; • actions of our existing shareholders, including sales of common stock by our directors and executive officers; • the arrival or departure of key personnel; and • other developments affecting us, our industry or our competitors. In addition, in recent years the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause declines in the market price of our common stock. The price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company or its performance, and those fluctuations could materially reduce our common stock price. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 