Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business The possible lack of business diversification may adversely affect our results of operations. Unlike other entities that are geographically diversified, we do not have the resources to effectively diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses. By consummating acquisitions only in the offshore Gulf of Mexico and Gulf Coast onshore our lack of diversification may: • subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the particular industry in which we operate; and • result in our dependency upon a single or limited number of reserve basins. In addition, the geographic concentration of our properties in the Gulf of Mexico and Gulf Coast onshore means that some or all of the properties could be affected should the region experience: • severe weather; • delays or decreases in production, the availability of equipment, facilities or services; • delays or decreases in the availability of capacity to transport, gather or process production; and/or • changes in the regulatory environment. For example, the oil and gas properties that we acquired in April 2006 were damaged by both Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, and again by Hurricanes Gustav and Ike and the oil and gas properties that we acquired in June 2007 were damaged by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, which required us to spend a considerable amount of time and capital on inspections, repairs, debris removal, and the drilling of replacement wells. Although we maintain insurance coverage to cover a portion of these types of risks, there may be potential risks associated with our operations not covered by insurance. There also may be certain risks covered by insurance where the policy does not reimburse us for all of the costs related to a loss. Because all or a number of the properties could experience many of the same conditions at the same time, these conditions could have a relatively greater impact on our results of operations than they might have on other producers who have properties over a wider geographic area. Our indebtedness may limit our ability to borrow additional funds or capitalize on acquisition or other business opportunities. We have incurred substantial indebtedness in acquiring our properties. As of June 30, 2009, we had total indebtedness of $862.8 million. Our leverage and the current and future restrictions contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness may reduce our ability to incur additional indebtedness, engage in certain transactions or capitalize on acquisition or other business opportunities. Our indebtedness and other financial obligations and restrictions could have important consequences. For example, they could: • impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for capital expenditures, potential acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates since some of our debt is at variable rates of interest; • have a material adverse effect if we fail to comply with financial and restrictive covenants in any of our debt agreements, including an event of default if such event is not cured or waived; 6 TABLE OF CONTENTS • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of future cash flow to payments of our indebtedness and other financial obligations, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage to those who have proportionately less debt. If we are unable to meet future debt service obligations and other financial obligations, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness and other financial transactions, seek additional equity or sell assets. We may then be unable to obtain such financing or capital or sell assets on satisfactory terms, if at all. We expect to have substantial capital requirements, and we may be unable to obtain needed financing on satisfactory terms. We expect to make substantial capital expenditures for the acquisition, development, production, exploration and abandonment of oil and gas properties. Our capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, and we cannot predict accurately the timing and amount of our capital requirements. We intend to primarily finance our capital expenditures through cash flow from operations. However, if our capital requirements vary materially from those provided for in our current projections, we may require additional financing. A decrease in expected revenues or adverse change in market conditions could make obtaining this financing economically unattractive or impossible. The cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially while the availability of funds from those markets generally has diminished significantly. Also, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets generally has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, imposed tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at maturity at all or on terms similar to our current debt and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. A significant increase in our indebtedness, or an increase in our indebtedness that is proportionately greater than our issuances of equity, as well as the credit market and debt and equity capital market conditions discussed above could negatively impact our ability to remain in compliance with the financial covenants under our revolving credit facility which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to finance our growth as expected, we could be required to seek alternative financing, the terms of which may not be attractive to us, or not purse growth opportunities. Without additional capital resources, we may be forced to limit or defer our planned natural gas and oil exploration and development program and this will adversely affect the recoverability and ultimate value of our natural gas and oil properties, in turn negatively affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also be unable to obtain sufficient credit capacity with counterparties to finance the hedging of our future crude oil and natural gas production which may limit our ability to manage price risk. As a result, we may lack the capital necessary to complete potential acquisitions, obtain credit necessary to enter into derivative contracts to hedge our future crude oil and natural gas production or to capitalize on other business opportunities. The borrowing base under our revolving credit facility will be reduced upon the next redetermination date, and may be further reduced in the future if commodity prices decline, which will limit our available funding for exploration and development. As of June 30, 2009, total outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility were $234.5 million and our current borrowing base was $240 million. We expect that upon the next determination of the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility in the fall of 2009, the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility will be reduced to $199 million. The new borrowing base is subject to approval by banks holding not less than 67% of the lending commitments under our revolving credit facility, and the final borrowing base may be lower than the level recommended by the agent for the bank group. 7 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our borrowing base is re-determined semi-annually by our lenders in their sole discretion. The lenders will re-determine the borrowing base based on an engineering report with respect to our natural gas and oil reserves, which will take into account the prevailing natural gas and oil prices at such time. In the future, we may not be able to access adequate funding under our revolving credit facility as a result of (i) a decrease in our borrowing base due to the outcome of a subsequent borrowing base re-determination, or (ii) an unwillingness or inability on the part of our lending counterparties to meet their funding obligations. If oil and natural gas commodity prices deteriorate, we anticipate that the revised borrowing base under our revolving credit facility may be further reduced. As a result, we may be unable to obtain adequate funding under our revolving credit facility or even be required to pay down amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility to reduce our level of borrowing. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, it might adversely affect our exploration and development plans as currently anticipated and our ability to make new acquisitions, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our production, revenues and results of operations. The lenders can unilaterally adjust the borrowing base and the borrowings permitted to be outstanding under our revolving credit facility. Any increase in the borrowing base requires the consent of all the lenders. Outstanding borrowings in excess of the borrowing base must be repaid immediately, or we must pledge other natural gas and oil properties as additional collateral. We do not currently have any substantial unpledged properties, and we may not have the financial resources in the future to make any mandatory principal prepayments required under our revolving credit facility. The continuing financial crisis may impact our business and financial condition. We may not be able to obtain funding in the capital markets on terms we find acceptable, or obtain funding under our first lien revolving credit facility because of the deterioration of the capital and credit markets and our borrowing base. The current credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial systems have had an impact on our business and our financial condition, and we may face challenges if economic and financial market conditions do not improve. Historically, we have used our cash flow from operations and borrowings under our first lien revolving credit facility to fund our capital expenditures and have relied on the capital markets and asset monetization transactions to provide us with additional capital for large or exceptional transactions. A continuation of the economic crisis could further reduce the demand for oil and natural gas and continue to put downward pressure on the prices for oil and natural gas, which have declined significantly since reaching historic highs in July 2008. These price declines have negatively impacted our revenues and cash flows. Our current borrowing base under our first lien revolving credit facility is $240 million, which we expect to be reduced to $199 million upon the next determination in the fall of 2009. In the future, we may not be able to access adequate funding under our first lien revolving credit facility as a result of (i) a decrease in our borrowing base due to the outcome of a subsequent borrowing base redetermination, or (ii) an unwillingness or inability on the part of our lending counterparties to meet their funding obligations. The recent declines in commodity prices, or a continuing decline in those prices, could result in a determination to lower the borrowing base in the future and, in such case, we could be required to repay any indebtedness in excess of the borrowing base. The turmoil in the financial markets has adversely impacted the stability and solvency of a number of large global financial institutions. The current credit crisis makes it difficult to obtain funding in the public and private capital markets. In particular, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially while the availability of funds from those markets generally has diminished significantly. Also, as a result of concerns about the general stability of financial markets and the solvency of specific counterparties, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, imposed tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at maturity or on terms similar to existing debt or at all, or, in some cases, ceased to provide any new funding. 8 TABLE OF CONTENTS We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further increase our leverage and attendant risks. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the indenture governing our senior notes do not fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from doing so. At June 30, 2009, we and our subsidiary guarantors collectively would have had approximately: • $234.5 million of secured indebtedness; • $4.1 million of unsecured short-term indebtedness; and • $624.2 million of other indebtedness, net of unamortized discounts. If new debt or liabilities are added to our current debt level, the related risks that we now face could increase. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures and development and exploration efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our future operating performance and financial results will be subject, in part, to factors beyond our control, including interest rates and general economic, financial and business conditions. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings or other facilities will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt, we may be required to: • refinance all or a portion of our debt; • obtain additional financing; • sell some of our assets or operations; • reduce or delay capital expenditures, research and development efforts and acquisitions; or • revise or delay our strategic plans. If we are required to take any of these actions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we cannot assure you that we would be able to take any of these actions, that these actions would enable us to continue to satisfy our capital requirements or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of the our various debt instruments. The covenants in the indenture governing our senior notes impose restrictions that may limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to take certain actions. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in the acceleration of our outstanding indebtedness. The indenture governing our senior notes contains various covenants that limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: • incur dividend or other payment obligations; • incur indebtedness and issue preferred stock; • sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries. If we breach any of these covenants, a default could occur. A default, if not waived, would entitle certain of our debt holders to declare all amounts borrowed under the breached indenture to become immediately due and payable, which could also cause the acceleration of obligations under certain other agreements and the termination of our credit facility. In the event of acceleration of our outstanding indebtedness, we cannot assure you that we would be able to repay our debt or obtain new financing to refinance our debt. Even if new financing is made available to us, it may not be on terms acceptable to us. 9 TABLE OF CONTENTS Oil and natural gas prices are volatile, and a decline in oil and natural gas prices would affect our financial results and impede growth. Our future financial condition, revenues, profitability and carrying value of our properties will depend substantially upon the prices and demand for oil and natural gas. Prices also affect our cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to access funds under our revolving credit facility and through the capital markets. The amount available for borrowing under our revolving credit facility is subject to a borrowing base, which is determined by our lenders taking into account our estimated proved reserves and is subject to semi-annual redeterminations based on pricing models determined by the lenders at such time. The recent decline in natural gas and oil prices has adversely impacted the value of our estimated proved reserves and, in turn, the market values used by our lenders to determine our borrowing base. It is likely that we will be subject to a reduction in our borrowing base at our next scheduled redetermination in the fall of 2009. The markets for these commodities are volatile and even relatively modest drops in prices can affect our financial results and impede our growth. Natural gas and oil prices historically have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future, especially given current geopolitical and economic conditions. For example, the NYMEX crude oil spot price per barrel for the period between January 1, 2009 and July 31, 2009 ranged from a high of $72.68 to a low of $33.98 and the NYMEX natural gas spot price per MMBtu for the period January 1, 2009 to July 31, 2009 ranged from a high of $6.072 to a low of $3.253. Prices for oil and natural gas fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond our control, such as: • domestic and foreign supplies of oil and natural gas; • price and quantity of foreign imports of oil and natural gas; • actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil and natural gas price and production controls; • level of consumer product demand; • level of global oil and natural gas exploration and productivity; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations; • level of global oil and natural gas inventories; • political conditions in or affecting other oil-producing and natural gas-producing countries, including the current conflicts in the Middle East and conditions in South America and Russia; • weather conditions; • technological advances affecting oil and natural gas consumption; • overall U.S. and global economic conditions; and • price and availability of alternative fuels. Further, oil prices and natural gas prices do not necessarily fluctuate in direct relationship to each other. Lower oil and natural gas prices may not only decrease our expected future revenues on a per unit basis but also may reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically. This may result in us having to make substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate and any material inaccuracies in the reserve estimates or underlying assumptions of our properties will materially affect the quantities and present value of those reserves. Estimating crude oil and natural gas reserves is complex and inherently imprecise. It requires interpretation of the available technical data and making many assumptions about future conditions, including price and other economic conditions. In preparing such estimates, projection of production rates, timing of development expenditures and available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data are analyzed. The extent, 10 TABLE OF CONTENTS quality and reliability of this data can vary. This process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. If our interpretations or assumptions used in arriving at our reserve estimates prove to be inaccurate, the amount of oil and gas that will ultimately be recovered may differ materially from the estimated quantities and net present value of reserves owned by us. Any inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could also materially affect the estimated quantities of reserves shown in the reserve reports summarized herein. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses, decommissioning liabilities and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves most likely will vary from estimates. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Unless we replace crude oil and natural gas reserves our future reserves and production will decline. Our future crude oil and natural gas production will depend on our success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. If we are unable to replace reserves through drilling or acquisitions, our level of production and cash flows will be adversely affected. In general, production from oil and gas properties declines as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. Our total proved reserves decline as reserves are produced unless we conduct other successful exploration and development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, or both. Our ability to make the necessary capital investment to maintain or expand our asset base of crude oil and natural gas reserves would be impaired to the extent cash flow from operations is reduced and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable. We may not be successful in exploring for, developing or acquiring additional reserves. We also may not be successful in raising funds to acquire additional reserves. Relatively short production periods or reserve life for Gulf of Mexico properties subject us to higher reserve replacement needs and may impair our ability to reduce production during periods of low oil and natural gas prices. High production rates generally result in recovery of a relatively higher percentage of reserves from properties in the Gulf of Mexico during the initial few years when compared to other regions in the United States. Typically, 50 percent of the reserves of properties in the Gulf of Mexico are depleted within three to four years. Due to high initial production rates, production of reserves from reservoirs in the Gulf of Mexico generally decline more rapidly than from other producing reservoirs. The vast majority of our existing operations are in the Gulf of Mexico. As a result, our reserve replacement needs from new prospects may be greater than those of other oil and gas companies with longer-life reserves in other producing areas. Also, our expected revenues and return on capital will depend on prices prevailing during these relatively short production periods. Our need to generate revenues to fund ongoing capital commitments or repay debt may limit our ability to slow or shut in production from producing wells during periods of low prices for oil and natural gas. We suffered ceiling write-downs in fiscal 2009 and may suffer additional ceiling write-downs in future periods. Under the full cost method of accounting, we are required to perform each quarter, a “ceiling test” that determines a limit on the book value of our oil and gas properties. If the net capitalized cost of proved oil and gas properties, net of related deferred income taxes, plus the cost of unevaluated oil and gas properties, exceeds the present value of estimated future net cash flows discounted at 10%, net of related tax effects, plus the cost of unevaluated oil and gas properties, the excess is charged to expense and reflected as additional accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization. Future net cash flows are based on period-end commodity prices and exclude future cash outflows related to estimated abandonment costs of proved developed properties. As of the reported balance sheet date, capitalized costs of an oil and gas producing company may not exceed the full cost limitation calculated under the above described rule based on current spot market prices for oil and natural gas. However, if prior to the balance sheet date, we enter into certain hedging arrangements for a portion of our future natural gas and oil production, thereby enabling us to receive future cash flows that are higher than the estimated future cash flows indicated by use of the spot market price as of the reported balance sheet date, these higher hedged prices are used if they qualify as cash flow hedges under the provisions of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) FASB Statement 133 as amended. 11 TABLE OF CONTENTS Because of the significant decline in crude oil and natural gas prices, coupled with the impact of Hurricanes Gustav and Ike, we recognized a non-cash write-down of the net book value of our oil and gas properties of $117.9 million and $459.1 million in the third and second quarters of fiscal 2009, respectively. The write-downs were reduced by $179.9 million and $203.0 million pre-tax as a result of our hedging program in the third and second quarters of fiscal 2009, respectively. Additional write-downs may be required if oil and natural gas prices decline, unproved property values decrease, estimated proved reserve volumes are revised downward or the net capitalized cost of proved oil and gas properties otherwise exceeds the present value of estimated future net cash flows. The Company and its Subsidiaries may need to obtain bonds or other surety in order to maintain compliance with those regulations promulgated by the U.S. Minerals Management Service (the “MMS”), which, if required, could be costly and reduce borrowings available under our bank credit facility. For offshore operations, lessees must comply with the MMS regulations governing, among other things, engineering and construction specifications for production facilities, safety procedures, plugging and abandonment of wells on the Shelf and removal of facilities. To cover the various obligations of lessees on the U.S. Outer Continental Shelf of the Gulf of Mexico, the MMS generally requires that lessees have substantial net worth or post bonds or other acceptable assurances that such obligations will be met. We are currently reviewing whether we are exempt from the supplemental bonding requirements of the MMS. The cost of these bonds or other surety could be substantial and there is no assurance that bonds or other surety could be obtained in all cases. In addition, we may be required to provide letters of credit to support the issuance of these bonds or other surety. Such letter of credit would likely be issued under our first lien credit facility and would reduce the amount of borrowings available under such facility in the amount of any such letter of credit obligations. The cost of compliance with these supplemental bonding requirements could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Competition for oil and gas properties and prospects is intense and some of our competitors have larger financial, technical and personnel resources that could give them an advantage in evaluating and obtaining properties and prospects. We operate in a highly competitive environment for reviewing prospects, acquiring properties, marketing oil and gas and securing trained personnel. Many of our competitors are major or independent oil and gas companies that possess and employ financial resources that allow them to obtain substantially greater technical and personnel resources than we. We actively compete with other companies when acquiring new leases or oil and gas properties. For example, new leases acquired from the Minerals Management Services (“MMS”) are acquired through a “sealed bid” process and are generally awarded to the highest bidder. These additional resources can be particularly important in reviewing prospects and purchasing properties. Competitors may be able to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. Competitors may also be able to pay more for productive oil and gas properties and exploratory prospects than we are able or willing to pay. If we are unable to compete successfully in these areas in the future, our future revenues and growth may be diminished or restricted. The present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated natural gas reserves. We base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on prices and costs in effect on the day of the estimate. However, actual future net cash flows from our natural gas and oil properties will be affected by factors such as: • the volume, pricing and duration of our natural gas and oil hedging contracts • supply of and demand for natural gas and oil; • actual prices we receive for natural gas and oil; • our actual operating costs in producing natural gas and oil; • the amount and timing of our capital expenditures and decommissioning costs; • the amount and timing of actual production; and 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS • changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of natural gas and oil properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the natural gas and oil industry in general. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oil field services could adversely affect our ability to execute exploration and exploitation plans on a timely basis and within budget, and consequently could adversely affect our anticipated cash flow. We utilize third-party services to maximize the efficiency of our organization. The cost of oil field services may increase or decrease depending on the demand for services by other oil and gas companies. While we currently have excellent relationships with oil field service companies, there is no assurance that we will be able to contract for such services on a timely basis or that the cost of such services will remain at a satisfactory or affordable level. Shortages or the high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or personnel could delay or adversely affect our exploitation and exploration operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our future business will involve many uncertainties and operating risks that can prevent us from realizing profits and can cause substantial losses. We engage in exploration and development drilling activities. Any such activities may be unsuccessful for many reasons. In addition to a failure to find oil or natural gas, drilling efforts can be affected by adverse weather conditions (such as hurricanes and tropical storms in the Gulf of Mexico), cost overruns, equipment shortages and mechanical difficulties. Therefore, the successful drilling of an oil or gas well does not ensure we will realize a profit on our investment. A variety of factors, both geological and market-related, could cause a well to become uneconomic or only marginally economic. In addition to their costs, unsuccessful wells could impede our efforts to replace reserves. Our business involves a variety of inherent operating risks, including: • fires; • explosions; • blow-outs and surface cratering; • uncontrollable flows of gas, oil and formation water; • natural disasters, such as hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions; • pipe, cement, subsea well or pipeline failures; • casing collapses; • mechanical difficulties, such as lost or stuck oil field drilling and service tools; • abnormally pressured formations; and • environmental hazards, such as gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases. If we experience any of these problems, well bores, platforms, gathering systems and processing facilities could be affected, which could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations. We could also incur substantial losses due to costs and/or liability incurred as a result of: • injury or loss of life; • severe damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS • pollution and other environmental damage; • clean-up responsibilities; • regulatory investigations and penalties; • suspension of our operations; and • repairs to resume operations. Our offshore operations will involve special risks that could affect operations adversely. Offshore operations are subject to a variety of operating risks specific to the marine environment, such as capsizing, collisions and damage or loss from hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions. These conditions can cause substantial damage to facilities and interrupt production. As a result, we could incur substantial liabilities that could reduce or eliminate the funds available for exploration, development or leasehold acquisitions, or result in loss of equipment and properties. In particular, we are not intending to put in place business interruption insurance due to its high cost. We therefore may not be able to rely on insurance coverage in the event of such natural phenomena. Currently, we have minority, non-operated interests in five deepwater leasehold blocks; four have booked proved reserves and three are producing. We may evaluate activity in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico in the future. Exploration for oil or natural gas in the deepwater of the Gulf of Mexico generally involves greater operational and financial risks than exploration on the shelf. Deepwater drilling generally requires more time and more advanced drilling technologies, involving a higher risk of technological failure and usually higher drilling costs. Deepwater wells often use subsea completion techniques with subsea trees tied back to host production facilities with flow lines. The installation of these subsea trees and flow lines requires substantial time and the use of advanced remote installation mechanics. These operations may encounter mechanical difficulties and equipment failures that could result in cost overruns. Furthermore, the deepwater operations generally lack the physical and oilfield service infrastructure present on the shelf. As a result, a considerable amount of time may elapse between a deepwater discovery and the marketing of the associated oil or natural gas, increasing both the financial and operational risk involved with these operations. Because of the lack and high cost of infrastructure, some reserve discoveries in the deepwater may never be produced economically. We are currently participating in the drilling of the shallow-water, ultra deep well Davey Jones and are awaiting long lead facility equipment on block South Timbalier 168, formerly known as Blackbeard West. Both of these wildcat exploration projects have some of the same characteristics as deepwater prospects with target sizes of 200 – 400 MMBOE. Use of advanced drilling technologies, involving a higher risk of technological failure and usually higher costs. Market conditions or transportation impediments may hinder access to oil and gas markets or delay production. Market conditions, the unavailability of satisfactory oil and natural gas transportation or the remote location of our drilling operations may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay production. The availability of a ready market for oil and gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines or trucking and terminal facilities. In deepwater operations, the availability of a ready market depends on the proximity of and our ability to tie into existing production platforms owned or operated by others and the ability to negotiate commercially satisfactory arrangements with the owners or operators. We may be required to shut in wells or delay initial production for lack of a market or because of inadequacy or unavailability of pipeline or gathering system capacity. When that occurs, we will be unable to realize revenue from those wells until the production can be tied to a gathering system. This can result in considerable delays from the initial discovery of a reservoir to the actual production of the oil and gas and realization of revenues. In some cases, our wells may be tied back to platforms owned by parties with no economic interests in these wells. There can be no assurance that owners of such platforms will continue to operate the platforms. If the owners cease to operate the platforms or their processing equipment, we may be required to shut in the associated wells, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS We are not the operator on all of our properties and therefore are not in a position to control the timing of development efforts, the associated costs, or the rate of production of the reserves on such properties. As we carry out our planned drilling program, we will not serve as operator of all planned wells. We currently operate approximately 78 percent of our properties. As a result, we may have limited ability to exercise influence over the operations of some non-operated properties or their associated costs. Dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects, and limited ability to influence operations and associated costs could prevent the realization of targeted returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities. The success and timing of development and exploitation activities on properties operated by others depend upon a number of factors that will be largely outside of our control, including: • the timing and amount of capital expenditures; • the availability of suitable offshore drilling rigs, drilling equipment, support vessels, production and transportation infrastructure and qualified operating personnel; • the operator’s expertise and financial resources; • approval of other participants in drilling wells; • selection of technology; and • the rate of production of the reserves. We depend on certain key customers for sales of our natural gas and oil. To the extent these and other customers reduce the volumes of natural gas and oil they purchase from us, or to the extent these customers cease to be creditworthy, our revenues could decline. We market substantially all of our oil and natural gas production from the properties we operate. We also market more than half of our oil and natural gas production from the fields we do not operate. The majority of our operated oil gas production is sold to a variety of purchasers under short-term (less than 12 months) contracts at market-based prices. Shell Trading Company (“Shell”) accounted for approximately 65 percent, 62 percent and 35 percent of our total oil and natural gas revenues during the years ended June 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We also sell our production to a number of other customers, and we believe that those customers, along with other purchasers of oil and natural gas, would purchase all or substantially all of our production in the event that Shell curtailed its purchases. We transport most of our oil and gas through third-party gathering systems and pipelines. Transportation space on these gathering systems and pipelines is normally readily available. Our ability to market our oil and gas has at times been limited or delayed due to restricted or unavailable transportation space or weather damage, and cash flow from the affected properties has been and could continue to be adversely impacted. We are exposed to trade credit risk in the ordinary course of our business activities. We are exposed to risks of loss in the event of nonperformance by our vendors, customers and by counterparties to our price risk management arrangements. Some of our vendors, customers and counterparties may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. Many of our vendors, customers and counterparties finance their activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. Recently, there has been a significant decline in the credit markets and the availability of credit. Additionally, many of our vendors’, customers’ and counterparties’ equity values have substantially declined. The combination of reduction of cash flow resulting from declines in commodity prices and the lack of availability of debt or equity financing may result in a significant reduction in our vendors’, customers’ and counterparties’ liquidity and ability to make payments or perform on their obligations to us. Even if our credit review and analysis mechanisms work properly, we may experience financial losses in our dealings with other parties. Any increase in the nonpayment or nonperformance by our vendors, customers and/or counterparties could reduce our cash flows. 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our insurance may not protect us against business and operating risks. We maintain insurance for some, but not all, of the potential risks and liabilities associated with our business. For some risks, we may not obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. Due to market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially, and in some instances, certain insurance policies are economically unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. Although we will maintain insurance at levels we believe are appropriate and consistent with industry practice, we will not be fully insured against all risks, including high-cost business interruption insurance and drilling and completion risks that are generally not recoverable from third parties or insurance. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Losses and liabilities from uninsured and underinsured events and delay in the payment of insurance proceeds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Due to a number of recent catastrophic events like the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 and Hurricanes Ivan, Katrina, Rita, Gustav and Ike, insurance underwriters increased insurance premiums for many of the coverages historically maintained and issued general notices of cancellation and significant changes for a wide variety of insurance coverages. The oil and natural gas industry suffered extensive damage from Hurricanes Ivan, Katrina, Rita, Gustav and Ike. As a result, insurance costs have increased significantly from the costs that similarly situated participants in this industry have historically incurred. Insurers are requiring higher retention levels and limit the amount of insurance proceeds that are available after a major wind storm in the event that damages are incurred. If storm activity in the future is as severe as it was in 2005 or 2008, insurance underwriters may no longer insure Gulf of Mexico assets against weather-related damage. We do not intend to put in place business interruption insurance due to its high cost. This insurance may not be economically available in the future, which could adversely impact business prospects in the Gulf of Mexico and adversely impact our operations. If an accident or other event resulting in damage to our operations, including severe weather, terrorist acts, war, civil disturbances, pollution or environmental damage, occurs and is not fully covered by insurance or a recoverable indemnity from a customer, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, we may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable or be able to obtain insurance against certain risks. Our operations will be subject to environmental and other government laws and regulations that are costly and could potentially subject us to substantial liabilities. Oil and gas exploration and production operations in the United States and the Gulf of Mexico are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations. Companies operating in the Gulf of Mexico are subject to laws and regulations addressing, among others, land use and lease permit restrictions, bonding and other financial assurance related to drilling and production activities, spacing of wells, unitization and pooling of properties, environmental and safety matters, plugging and abandonment of wells and associated infrastructure after production has ceased, operational reporting and taxation. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations can subject us to governmental sanctions, such as fines and penalties, as well as potential liability for personal injuries and property and natural resources damages. We may be required to make significant expenditures to comply with the requirements of these laws and regulations, and future laws or regulations, or any adverse change in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations, could increase such compliance costs. Regulatory requirements and restrictions could also delay or curtail our operations and could have a significant impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Our oil and gas operations are subject to stringent laws and regulations relating to the release or disposal of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations: • require the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences; • restrict the types, quantities and concentration of substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities; • limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; and • impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from operations. 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in: • the imposition of administrative, civil and/or criminal penalties; • incurring investigatory or remedial obligations; and • the imposition of injunctive relief, which could limit or restrict our operations. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our industry in general and on our own results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. Although we intend to be in compliance in all material respects with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with existing or new regulations. In addition, the risk of accidental spills, leakages or other circumstances could expose us to extensive liability. We are unable to predict the effect of additional environmental laws and regulations that may be adopted in the future, including whether any such laws or regulations would materially adversely increase our cost of doing business or affect operations in any area. Under certain environmental laws and regulations, we could be held strictly liable for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination regardless of whether we were responsible for the release or contamination, or if current or prior operations were conducted consistent with accepted standards of practice. Such liabilities can be significant, and if imposed could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. The adoption of climate change legislation by Congress could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas we produce. On June 26, 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives approved adoption of the “American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009,” also known as the “Waxman-Markey cap-and-trade legislation” or ACESA. The purpose of ACESA is to control and reduce emissions of “greenhouse gases,” or “GHGs,” in the United States. GHGs are certain gases, including carbon dioxide and methane, that may be contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. ACESA would establish an economy-wide cap on emissions of GHGs in the United States and would require an overall reduction in GHG emissions of 17% (from 2005 levels) by 2020, and by over 80% by 2050. Under ACESA, most sources of GHG emissions would be required to obtain GHG emission “allowances” corresponding to their annual emissions of GHGs. The number of emission allowances issued each year would decline as necessary to meet ACESA’s overall emission reduction goals. As the number of GHG emission allowances declines each year, the cost or value of allowances is expected to escalate significantly. The net effect of ACESA will be to impose increasing costs on the combustion of carbon-based fuels such as oil, refined petroleum products, and natural gas. The U.S. Senate has begun work on its own legislation for controlling and reducing emissions of GHGs in the United States. If the Senate adopts GHG legislation that is different from ACESA, the Senate legislation would need to be reconciled with ACESA and both chambers would be required to approve identical legislation before it could become law. President Obama has indicated that he is in support of the adoption of legislation to control and reduce emissions of GHGs through an emission allowance permitting system that results in fewer allowances being issued each year but that allows parties to buy, sell and trade allowances as needed to fulfill their GHG emission obligations. Although it is not possible at this time to predict whether or when the Senate may act on climate change legislation or how any bill approved by the Senate would be reconciled with ACESA, any laws or regulations that may be adopted to restrict or reduce emissions of GHGs would likely require us to incur increased operating costs, and could have an adverse effect on demand for the oil and natural gas we produce. The adoption of derivatives legislation by Congress could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. Congress is currently considering legislation to impose restrictions on certain transactions involving derivatives, which could affect the use of derivatives in hedging transactions. ACESA contains provisions that would prohibit private energy commodity derivative and hedging transactions. ACESA would expand the 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS power of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC, to regulate derivative transactions related to energy commodities, including oil and natural gas, and to mandate clearance of such derivative contracts through registered derivative clearing organizations. Under ACESA, the CFTC’s expanded authority over energy derivatives would terminate upon the adoption of general legislation covering derivative regulatory reform. The Chairman of the CFTC has announced that the CFTC intends to conduct hearings to determine whether to set limits on trading and positions in commodities with finite supply, particularly energy commodities, such as crude oil, natural gas and other energy products. The CFTC also is evaluating whether position limits should be applied consistently across all markets and participants. In addition, the Treasury Department recently has indicated that it intends to propose legislation to subject all OTC derivative dealers and all other major OTC derivative market participants to substantial supervision and regulation, including by imposing conservative capital and margin requirements and strong business conduct standards. Derivative contracts that are not cleared through central clearinghouses and exchanges may be subject to substantially higher capital and margin requirements. Although it is not possible at this time to predict whether or when Congress may act on derivatives legislation or how any climate change bill approved by the Senate would be reconciled with ACESA, any laws or regulations that may be adopted that subject us to additional capital or margin requirements relating to, or to additional restrictions on, our trading and commodity positions could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business or on the cost of our hedging activity. Risks Associated with Acquisitions and Our Risk Management Program Our acquisitions may be stretching our existing resources. Since our inception in July 2005, we have made three major acquisitions and have become a reporting company in the United States. Future transactions may prove to stretch our internal resources and infrastructure. As a result, we may need to invest in additional resources, which will increase our costs. Any further acquisitions we make over the short term would likely exacerbate these risks. We may be unable to successfully integrate the operations of the properties we acquire. Integration of the operations of the properties we acquire with our existing business will be a complex, time-consuming and costly process. Failure to successfully integrate the acquired businesses and operations in a timely manner may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The difficulties of combining the acquired operations include, among other things: • operating a larger organization; • coordinating geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities; • integrating corporate, technological and administrative functions; • diverting management’s attention from other business concerns; • an increase in our indebtedness; and • potential environmental or regulatory liabilities and title problems. The process of integrating our operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our business. Members of our senior management may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to this integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage our business. If our senior management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer. In addition, we face the risk of identifying, competing for and pursuing other acquisitions, which takes time and expense and diverts management’s attention from other activities. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from our acquisitions. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from our future acquisitions, such as increased earnings, cost savings and revenue enhancements, for various reasons, including difficulties integrating operations and personnel, higher than expected acquisition and operating costs or other difficulties, unknown liabilities, inaccurate reserve estimates and fluctuations in market prices. 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS If we are unable to effectively manage the commodity price risk of our production if energy prices fall, we may not realize the anticipated cash flows from our acquisitions. Compared to some other participants in the oil and gas industry, we are a relatively small company with modest resources. Therefore, there is the possibility that we may be unable to find counterparties willing to enter into derivative arrangements with us or be required to either purchase relatively expensive put options, or commit to deliver future production, to manage the commodity price risk of our future production. To the extent that we commit to deliver future production, we may be forced to make cash deposits available to counterparties as they mark to market these financial hedges. Proposed changes in regulations affecting derivatives may further limit or raise the cost, or increase the credit support required to hedge. This funding requirement may limit the level of commodity price risk management that we are prudently able to complete. In addition, we are unlikely to hedge undeveloped reserves to the same extent that we hedge the anticipated production from proved developed reserves. If we fail to manage the commodity price risk of our production and energy prices fall, we may not be able to realize the cash flows from our assets that are currently anticipated even if we are successful in increasing the production and ultimate recovery of reserves. If we place hedges on future production and encounter difficulties meeting that production, we may not realize the originally anticipated cash flows. Our assets consist of a mix of reserves, with some being developed while others are undeveloped. To the extent that we sell the production of these reserves on a forward-looking basis but do not realize that anticipated level of production, our cash flow may be adversely affected if energy prices rise above the prices for the forward-looking sales. In this case, we would be required to make payments to the purchaser of the forward-looking sale equal to the difference between the current commodity price and that in the sales contract multiplied by the physical volume of the shortfall. There is the risk that production estimates could be inaccurate or that storms or other unanticipated problems could cause the production to be less than the amount anticipated, causing us to make payments to the purchasers pursuant to the terms of the hedging contracts. Our price risk management activities could result in financial losses or could reduce our income, which may adversely affect our cash flows. We enter into derivative contracts to reduce the impact of natural gas and oil price volatility on our cash flow from operations. Currently, we use a combination of natural gas and crude oil put, swap and collar arrangements to mitigate the volatility of future natural gas and oil prices received. Our actual future production may be significantly higher or lower than we estimate at the time we enter into derivative contracts for such period. If the actual amount of production is higher than we estimate, we will have greater commodity price exposure than we intended. If the actual amount of production is lower than the notional amount that is subject to our derivative financial instruments, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our derivative transactions without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale of the underlying physical commodity, resulting in a substantial diminution of our liquidity. As a result of these factors, our hedging activities may not be as effective as we intend in reducing the volatility of our cash flows, and in certain circumstances may actually increase the volatility of our cash flows. In addition, our price risk management activities are subject to the following risks: • a counterparty may not perform its obligation under the applicable derivative instrument; • there may be a change in the expected differential between the underlying commodity price in the derivative instrument and the actual price received; and • the steps we take to monitor our derivative financial instruments may not detect and prevent violations of our risk management policies and procedures. 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS The properties we acquire may not produce as projected, and we may be unable to determine reserve potential, identify liabilities associated with the acquired properties or obtain protection from sellers against such liabilities. The properties we acquire may not produce as expected, may be in an unexpected condition and we may be subject to increased costs and liabilities, including environmental liabilities. Although we review properties prior to acquisition in a manner consistent with industry practices, such reviews are not capable of identifying all potential conditions. Generally, it is not feasible to review in depth every individual property involved in each acquisition. We focus our review efforts on the higher-value properties or properties with known adverse conditions and will sample the remainder. However, even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems or permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their condition, any deficiencies, and development potential. Inspections may not be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as ground water contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Other Risks We depend on key personnel, the loss of any of whom could materially adversely affect future operations. Our success will depend to a large extent upon the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and key operations personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of these key employees could have a material adverse effect on us. Our business will also be dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Acquiring and keeping these personnel could prove more difficult or cost substantially more than estimated. This could cause us to incur greater costs, or prevent us from pursuing our exploitation strategy as quickly as we would otherwise wish to do. Unanticipated decommissioning costs could materially adversely affect our future financial position and results of operations. We may become responsible for unanticipated costs associated with abandoning and reclaiming wells, facilities and pipelines. Abandonment and reclamation of facilities and the costs associated therewith is often referred to as “decommissioning.” Should decommissioning be required that is not presently anticipated or the decommissioning be accelerated, such as can happen after a hurricane, such costs may exceed the value of reserves remaining at any particular time. We may have to draw on funds from other sources to satisfy such costs. The use of other funds to satisfy such decommissioning costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. If we are unable to acquire or renew permits and approvals required for operations, we may be forced to suspend or cease operations altogether. The construction and operation of energy projects require numerous permits and approvals from governmental agencies. We may not be able to obtain all necessary permits and approvals, and as a result our operations may be adversely affected. In addition, obtaining all necessary permits and approvals may necessitate substantial expenditures and may create a risk of expensive delays or loss of value if a project is unable to function as planned due to changing requirements or local opposition. We may be taxed as a United States Corporation. We are incorporated under the laws of Bermuda because of our long-term desire to have substantial business interests outside the United States. Currently, legislation in the United States that penalizes domestic corporations that reincorporate in a foreign country does not affect us, but future legislation could. We plan to purchase any U.S. assets through our wholly owned subsidiary Energy XXI Inc. Energy XXI Inc. and its subsidiaries will pay U.S. taxes on U.S. income. We do not currently intend to engage in any business activity in the United States. However, there is a risk that some or all of our income could be challenged, and considered as effectively connected to a U.S. trade or business, and therefore subject to U.S. taxation. In consideration of this risk, we and our U.S. subsidiaries have implemented certain operational steps to separate the U.S. operations from our other operations. In general, employees based in the United States 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS will be employees of our U.S. subsidiaries, and will be paid for their services by such U.S. subsidiaries. Salaries of our employees who are U.S. residents and who render services to the U.S. business activities will be allocated as expenses of the U.S. subsidiaries. Certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. President Obama’s Proposed Fiscal Year 2010 Budget includes proposed legislation that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to United States tax laws, including the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities, and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether any such changes will be enacted or how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such change could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 