Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors That May Affect Our Future Results or the Market Price of Our Stock We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves numerous uncertainties and risks. Investors evaluating our company and our business should carefully consider the factors described below and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This section should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in this report. Any of the following factors could materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition and/or negatively affect our stock price. Additional factors and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial could also harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We may make forward-looking statements from time to time, both written and oral. We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements based on circumstances or events which occur in the future. The actual results may differ materially from those projected in any such forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those set forth below and elsewhere in this report. The weakened global economy has negatively impacted our contracting activity and revenue, required that we reduce our expenses and imposed risks on our business. Some prospective and existing customers have cancelled, delayed or downsized software purchases and implementation projects because of the adverse economy and their internal budget constraints. Some customers may also experience difficulty in paying us for previously purchased products and services. The adverse economic environment has also intensified the difficulty of forecasting software license and services revenue due, in part, to the lengthening and uncertainty of the sales cycle. A decrease in licensing activity will typically lead to a decrease in services revenue in the same or subsequent quarters. Lower licensing activity will also lower new maintenance revenue since maintenance fees for new product licenses are based on the amount of associated license fees. We took steps in fiscal 2009 and 2010 to reduce headcount and lower expenses. Despite our efforts to focus on new sales of products and services and to manage our expenses, there is risk that we will not be able to achieve our business plan during this difficult global economic environment. Economic, political and market conditions can adversely affect our revenue growth and operating results. The uncertainty posed by the weakened global economy, volatile credit markets, escalating energy prices, terrorist activities, potential pandemics, natural disasters and related uncertainties and risks and other geopolitical issues may impact the purchasing decisions of current or potential customers. Because of these factors, we believe the level of demand for our products and services and projections of future revenue and operating results, will continue to be difficult to predict. These geopolitical risks could also impede employee travel and our business operations in any affected regions. We face large, established competitors, specialized competitors and substantial price competition. We compete with Oracle Corporation, SAP AG, Microsoft Corporation and other larger software companies that have advantages over us due to their larger customer bases, greater name recognition, long operating and product development history, greater international presence and substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources. If customers or prospects want to reduce the number of their software vendors, they may elect to purchase competing products from Oracle, SAP, or Microsoft since those larger vendors offer a wider range of products. Furthermore, Oracle is capable of bundling its software with its database applications, which underlie a significant portion of our installed 14 Table of Contents applications. We also compete with a variety of more specialized software and services vendors, including: •single-industry software vendors; •human resource management software vendors; •financial management software vendors; •manufacturing software vendors; •merchandising software vendors; •services automation software vendors; •software integrators and outsourced services providers; and •internet (on demand) software vendors. Some competitors offer payment terms, contractual warranties, implementation terms or guarantees that are more favorable to customers and prospects. Competitors may entice our customers and prospects to switch software vendors by offering those customers or prospects free or heavily discounted products or services, and other more favorable contract terms. We may be unable to continue to compete successfully with new and existing competitors without lowering prices or offering other favorable terms to customers that lower our margins and increase our risks. We expect competition to persist and intensify, which could negatively impact our operating results and market share. We may have exposure to potential impairment charges related to our goodwill and acquired intangible assets. We have made several acquisitions over the past few years, primarily the acquisition of Intentia in April 2006 and Healthvision in January 2010. As a result of these acquisitions, we have recorded on our balance sheet approximately $525.6 million of goodwill and $159.7 million of intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, as of May 31, 2010. We may incur impairment charges related to goodwill or our acquired intangible assets if we determine that the fair value of the goodwill and/or our acquired intangible assets is less than their current carrying value. In general, this could occur if the fair value of our applicable reporting units declines to an amount below the carrying value of such reporting units, or if we do not anticipate that the acquired intangibles will generate future cash flows in-line with our expectations as established at the date of acquisition. In fiscal 2010, we reorganized our operations into vertically focused operating segments resulting in our allocation of goodwill to each of our separate reporting units. As a consequence, we are required to test for potential goodwill impairment at the reporting unit levels. Recording an impairment charge related to our goodwill or acquired intangible assets could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies—Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, in Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10-K for further discussion. Our revenues, and in particular our software license revenues, vary each quarter and are difficult to predict. Revenues from license fees in any quarter depend substantially upon our licensing activity with new and existing customers, and our ability to recognize revenues in that quarter under our revenue recognition policies. A significant portion of our future revenue is dependent upon our existing installed base of customers continuing to license additional products, as well as purchasing consulting services and renewing their annual maintenance agreements. If we do not continue to develop or acquire new products, licensing activity with existing customers will decline. Licensing activity for our products drives maintenance and services revenues because we sell maintenance and services for only our products. A decrease in licensing activity will typically lead to a decrease in services revenue in the 15 Table of Contents same or subsequent quarters. If we do not have sufficient new licensing activity each year, our maintenance revenue and profit for the following year will decline because new customers or sales of additional products to existing customers are needed to offset the percentage of existing customers who scale back their businesses, reduce licenses and maintenance contracts, are acquired, or otherwise choose not to renew annual maintenance. Our sales force and marketing team must continue to generate sales leads among existing customers and prospective customers. When we "qualify" a lead, that lead becomes part of our sales "pipeline." If our pipeline does not continue to grow in our different markets and geographies, our revenues will eventually decline. The rate at which we convert our pipeline into actual sales can vary greatly from year to year for the following reasons: •The period between initial customer contact and a purchase by a customer may vary and can be more than one year. During the sales cycle, prospective customers may decide not to purchase or may scale down purchases because of competing offers, budgetary constraints or changes in the prospect's management, strategy, business or industry. Increasingly, customer or prospect organizations are taking more steps to approve the purchase of our products and services. Often times, we must wait for a customer or prospect's board of directors to approve a purchase. These added approval requirements can delay the sales cycle and jeopardize the likelihood of completing the sale. •A substantial number of our existing and prospective customers make their purchase decision within the last few weeks or days of each quarter. A delay or deferral in a small number of large new software license transactions could cause our quarterly license revenue to fall significantly short of our predictions. •Prospective customers may decline or defer the purchase of new products if we do not have sufficient customer references for those products. •New products or technologies, software industry mergers and other software industry news may create uncertainty and cause customers and prospective customers to cancel, postpone or reduce capital spending for our products. Because a substantial portion of our software license revenue contracts are completed in the latter part of a quarter, and our cost structure is largely fixed in the short term, unexpected revenue shortfalls and deferrals have a disproportionately negative impact on our profitability. We may not retain or attract customers if we do not develop new products and enhance our current products in response to technological changes and competing products. The enterprise software market is faced with rapid technological change, evolving standards in computer hardware, software development, communications and security infrastructure, and changing needs and expectations of customers. Building new products and service offerings requires significant investment in development. A substantial portion of our research and development resources are devoted to regulatory and maintenance requirements and product upgrades that address new technology support. These demands put significant constraints on our resources available for new product development. We also face uncertainty when we develop or acquire new products because there is no assurance that a sufficient market will develop for those products. We may be unable to identify or complete suitable acquisitions and investments; and any acquisitions and investments we do complete may create business difficulties or dilute earnings. As part of our business strategy, we intend to pursue strategic acquisitions in the future. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisitions or investment candidates. Even if we identify suitable candidates, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to make acquisitions or investments on commercially acceptable terms. If we acquire a company, we may incur losses in the operations of that 16 Table of Contents company and we may have difficulty integrating its products, personnel and/or operations into our business. In addition, its key personnel may decide not to work for us. These difficulties could disrupt our on-going business, distract our management and workforce, increase our expenses and adversely affect our operating results. We may also incorrectly judge the value or worth of an acquired company or business. Furthermore, we may incur significant debt or issue equity securities to pay for future acquisitions or investments. The issuance of equity securities may be dilutive to our stockholders. If the products of an acquired company are not successful, those remaining assets could become impaired, which may result in an impairment loss that could materially adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. Competitors may take advantage of our limited intellectual property protection. We consider certain aspects of our internal operations, software and documentation to be proprietary, and rely on a combination of contract, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws to protect this information. In addition, we currently hold 11 patents in the U. S. Copyright laws afford only limited protection because those laws do not protect product ideas. In addition, when we license our products to customers, we provide source code for many of our products. Customers may also access source code through a source code escrow arrangement. Access to our source code could provide an opportunity for companies to offer competing maintenance and product modification services to our customers. Defending our intellectual property rights is time consuming and costly. Others may claim that we infringe their intellectual property rights. Many participants in the technology industry, and patent holding companies who have no independent product revenue, have an increasing number of patents and have frequently demonstrated a readiness to take legal action based on allegations of patent and other intellectual property infringement. These types of claims are time consuming and costly to defend. As described in this report under Item 3, Legal Proceedings, we are currently defending three separate and unrelated patent infringement lawsuits in the U.S. If a successful claim is made against us and we fail to develop or license a substitute technology, our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be adversely affected. Our products are deployed in large and complex systems and may contain defects or security flaws or be implemented incorrectly. Because our products are deployed in large and complex systems, they can only be fully tested for reliability when deployed in networks for long periods of time. Our software programs may contain undetected defects when first introduced or as new versions are released. Our customers might encounter difficulties with the implementation of our products, experience corruption of their data or encounter performance or scaling problems only after our software programs have been deployed. The services needed for implementing our products are also complex, and require knowledge and cooperation between both the customer's and the service provider's teams. As a consequence, from time to time we have received customer complaints or been sued. In addition, our products are combined with products from other vendors. As a result, should problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. Software and data security are becoming increasingly important because of regulatory restrictions on data privacy and the significant legal exposures and business disruptions stemming from computer viruses and other unauthorized entry or use of computer systems. We may not be able to avoid or limit liability for disputes relating to product performance, software security or the provision of services. Product defects and security flaws could expose us to product liability and warranty claims and harm our reputation, which could impact our future sales of products and services. 17 Table of Contents The success of our recently announced Lawson Cloud Services offering could be adversely impacted by deployment problems, security breaches, or system or telecommunication disruptions. Lawson Cloud Services is new and could encounter unexpected problems. These problems could be attributable to our products, third party software, telecommunications failures, security breaches, or the cloud technology from Amazon Web Services or other hosting providers. We are in the early stages of rolling out this new offering and have not yet established the range of customer references that will be needed for Lawson Cloud Services to be a success. Industry acceptance of cloud computing is still forming. Since cloud technology is new and requires that customer data reside outside of a customer's "fire wall" of protection, many prospective customers could reject or delay adoption, thereby limiting the potential for this new offering. Other limitations include product and network scalability for large numbers of users. We must also renegotiate some of our third-party software contracts so that we can deploy the Lawson Cloud Services using an instance of the entire range of required software, including the software owned by those third parties. These types of risks could adversely affect our adoption and renewal rates for Lawson Cloud Services and adversely impact our ability to achieve our business plan and forecasted financial results. Deterioration in our relationships with resellers, systems integrators and other third-parties that market and sell our products could reduce our revenues. Our revenue growth will depend, in part, on adding new partners to expand our sales channels, as well as leveraging our relationships with existing partners. If our relationships with these resellers, system integrators and strategic and technology partners deteriorate or terminate, we may lose sales and marketing opportunities. Some current and potential customers rely on third-party systems integrators to implement and manage new and existing applications. These systems integrators may increase their promotion of competing enterprise software applications, or may otherwise discontinue their relationships with us. Because we do not own all of the products that we license, we rely on our continued relationships with other software suppliers. We license third-party software products that we incorporate into, or resell with, our own software products. For example, we incorporate in many of our products software supplied by Micro Focus International, Inc. and StreamServe, Inc. We also have reseller and alliance relationships with IBM, Business Software Incorporated and other software suppliers businesses that allow us to resell their offerings with our products and services. These relationships and other technology licenses are subject to periodic renewal and may include minimum sales requirements. A failure to renew or early termination of these relationships or other technology licenses could adversely impact our business. International sales and operations subject us to risks that can adversely affect our operating results. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues, and have significant operations, outside of the U.S. Our international operations include software development, sales, customer support and administration. We face challenges in managing an organization operating in various countries, which can entail longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, overlapping tax regimes, difficulties in transferring funds from certain countries and reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. We must comply with a variety of international laws and regulations, including trade restrictions, local labor ordinances, and import and export requirements. 18 Table of Contents We may experience foreign currency gains and losses. We conduct a significant portion of our business in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. Our revenues and operating results are affected when the U.S. Dollar strengthens or weakens relative to other currencies. Changes in the value of major foreign currencies, particularly the Swedish Krona, the Euro, the Canadian Dollar, the British Pound as well as the Norwegian Krona relative to the U.S. Dollar can significantly affect our revenues and operating results. Recognized balance sheet exposures are partially offset by forward currency contracts that we purchase. Net foreign currency transaction gains and losses, resulting primarily from recognized balance sheet exposures, are recorded within earnings in the period incurred. Litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to legal and regulatory requirements applicable to our business and industry throughout the world. We are subject to various legal proceedings and the risk of litigation by employees, customers, patent owners, suppliers, stockholders or others through private actions, class actions, administrative proceedings or other litigation. Litigation can be lengthy, expensive, and disruptive to our operations and results cannot be predicted with certainty. There may also be adverse publicity associated with litigation, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately found liable. As a result, litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Open source software may diminish our license fees and impair the ownership of our products. The open source community is comprised of many different formal and informal groups of companies, software developers and individuals who have created a wide variety of software and have made that software available for use, distribution and modification, often free of charge. Open source software, such as the Linux operating system, has been gaining in popularity among business users. If developers contribute enterprise application software to the open source community, and that software has competitive features and scale to business users in our markets, we will need to change our product pricing and distribution strategy to compete. If one of our developers embedded open source components into one of our products, without our knowledge or authorization, our ownership and licensing of that product could be in jeopardy. Depending on the open source license terms, the use of an open source component could mean that all products delivered with that open source component become part of the open source community. In that case, we would not own those delivered products and could not charge license fees for those products. We currently take steps to train our developers and monitor the content of products in development, but there is no assurance that these steps will always be effective. Business disruptions could adversely affect our operating results. A significant portion of our critical business operations, including research and development, product maintenance, services support, and general and administrative support, are concentrated in a few geographic areas. A disruption or failure of our systems could cause delays in completing sales and providing maintenance and services to customers. A major earthquake, fire or other catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or information technology systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our future operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Our profit margin for consulting services is lower than margins related to the other aspects of our business. The consulting part of our business is highly competitive, is less proprietary, and carries a much lower gross margin than the other aspects of our business. Our consulting services business is highly 19 Table of Contents sensitive to customer demands, competitive pressures and other external and internal forces. Our actions to improve our consulting services margin may be offset by these forces which could negatively impact our operating results. We must attract and retain account executives in our sales organization to achieve our revenue goals. Revenue growth, and in particular software license revenue growth, requires that we have a sufficient number of trained account executives in our sales organization to develop leads and call on prospective customers. Competition in our industry for experienced account executives is intense. Competitors and other software companies may lure away our account executives through signing bonuses and other special incentives. The failure to attract and retain account executives will negatively impact our revenue growth. When we hire a new account executive, the time period required for that person to become productive will vary, depending on their experience and training and the customer pipeline and length of sales cycle. If we are unable to attract and retain senior management, software developers, services consultants, finance and accounting specialists, and other qualified personnel, we will be unable to develop new products and increase our revenue and profitability. We also rely on the continued service of our senior management, software developers, services consultants, finance and accounting specialists, and other key employees. In the software industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly skilled business, product development, technical, financial and other personnel. The failure to attract, train, retain and effectively manage employees could negatively impact our development and efforts and cause a degradation of our customer service. If we are unable to attract and retain finance and accounting personnel who have experience with the software industry and U. S. accounting requirements, we will have to rely on more costly contractors to fill the roles necessary for us to meet our governance and regulatory requirements. We are required to delay revenue recognition into future periods for portions of our license fee activity. Our entire worldwide business is subject to United States generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP). Under those rules, we are required to defer revenue recognition for license fees in situations that include the following: •the customer agreement includes products that are under development or has other undelivered elements; •the customer agreement includes essential services, including significant modifications, customization or complex interfaces (this is more prevalent with our M3 products); •the customer agreement includes acceptance criteria; •the customer agreement includes extended or contingent payment terms or fees; •a third-party vendor, whose technology is incorporated into our products, delays delivery of its product to the customer; •the customer agreement includes a fixed-fee service arrangement for which we do not have "vendor specific objective evidence" (VSOE) of fair value; or •we are not able to establish historical pricing and maintenance renewal rates to meet the VSOE requirements of these accounting rules. We expect that we will continue to defer recognition of portions of our license fee activity in each period because of these factors, with deferrals more likely for (a) our M3 products because of product customization (often required due to the nature of the manufacturing and distribution industries) that 20 Table of Contents is frequently included with new sales, (b) sales to governmental entities because those often include fixed-fee arrangements for which we do not have VSOE of fair value, and (c) sales of large license fee contracts because it is more difficult to use standard contract terms. The amount of license fees deferred may be significant and will vary each quarter, depending on the mix of products sold in each market and geography, and the actual contract terms. We may take additional restructuring actions that result in financial charges in the period taken. In fiscal 2009 and 2010, we took actions to reduce costs in response to the current global economic downturn and as part of our preparation for verticalization of our organization's structure in fiscal 2010. Depending on the continued impact of the global economic downturn and the uncertainty and timing of any recovery, we may decide to take additional restructuring actions to improve our operational efficiencies and we may be required to incur financial charges in the period when we make such decisions, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations for that period. We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. As a multinational organization, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the U.S. as well as in various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision and other tax liabilities. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, there is no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. We are also subject to non-income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, both in the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes and may have additional exposure to additional non-income tax liabilities. Our effective tax rate may increase or fluctuate, which could increase our income tax expense and reduce our net income. Our effective tax rate can be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: •changes in the relative proportions of revenues and income before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates; •changing tax laws, regulations, and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate; •changes to the financial accounting rules for income taxes; •unanticipated changes in tax rates; •changes in accounting and tax treatment of stock-based compensation; •the tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between reporting periods; •changes to the valuation allowance on net deferred tax assets; or •the assessments, or any related tax interest or penalties, could significantly affect our income tax expense for the period in which the settlements take place. We report our results of operations based on our determinations of the amount of taxes owed in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate. Periodically, we receive notices that a tax authority to which we are subject has determined that we owe a greater amount of tax than we have reported to such authority, and we regularly engage in discussions, and sometimes disputes with these tax authorities. If the ultimate determination of our taxes owed in any of these jurisdictions is for an amount in excess of the tax provision we have recorded, our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents We have adopted anti-takeover defenses that could make it difficult for another company to acquire control of Lawson or limit the price investors might be willing to pay for our stock. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, our stockholder rights plan and Delaware law could make it more difficult for other businesses to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain the following provisions, among others, which may inhibit an acquisition of our company by a third-party: •advance notification procedures for matters to be brought before stockholder meetings; •a limitation on who may call stockholder meetings; •a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent; and •the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without a stockholder vote. The issuance of stock under our stockholder rights plan could delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests. We are also subject to provisions of Delaware law that prohibit us from engaging in any business combination with any "interested stockholder," meaning generally that a stockholder who beneficially owns more than 15% of our stock cannot acquire us for a period of three years from the date this person became an interested stockholder unless various conditions are met, such as approval of the transaction by our board of directors. Any of these restrictions could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. Stock ownership by officers and directors, or other stockholders accumulating large positions in our stock, could significantly influence matters requiring stockholder approval. As of May 31, 2010, our executive officers, directors, and affiliated entities, in the aggregate, beneficially owned approximately 11.0% of our outstanding common stock, providing them with voting power to significantly influence matters requiring approval by stockholders. From time to time, activist and hedge fund investors have accumulated large positions in our stock. Holders of large quantities of our stock or groups of stockholders acting together could also significantly influence all matters requiring approval by stockholders, including the nomination and election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combinations. Sales of our common stock by officers, directors or significant stockholders in the public market, or the perception that such sales are likely to occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. Our stock price could become more volatile and our stockholders' investments could lose value. All of the factors discussed in this section could affect our stock price. The timing of announcements in the public market regarding new products, product enhancements or technological advances by our competitors or us, and any announcements by us of acquisitions, major transactions, or management changes could also affect our stock price. Our stock price is subject to speculation in the press and the analyst community, changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in investors' or analysts' valuation measures for our stock and market trends unrelated to our performance. A significant drop in our stock price could also expose us to the risk of securities class actions lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 22 Table of Contents 