ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us In the future, we may not have sufficient cash to pay distributions at our current quarterly distribution level or to increase distributions. Currently, our earnings and cash flow consist solely of cash distributions from ARLP. Therefore, the amount of distributions we are able to make to our unitholders may fluctuate based on the level of distributions ARLP makes to its partners. We cannot assure you that ARLP will continue to make quarterly distributions at its current level or increase its quarterly distributions in the future. In addition, while we would expect to increase or decrease distributions to our unitholders if ARLP increases or decreases distributions to us, the timing and amount of such increased or decreased distributions, if any, will not necessarily be comparable to the timing and amount of the increase or decrease in distributions made by ARLP to us. Our ability to distribute cash received from ARLP to our unitholders could be limited by a number of factors, including: · interest expense and principal payments on indebtedness; · restrictions on distributions contained in any current or future debt agreements; · our general and administrative expenses; · expenses of our subsidiaries other than ARLP, including tax liabilities of our corporate subsidiaries, if any; · reserves necessary for us to make capital contributions to maintain our 1.98% general partner interest in ARLP as required by the partnership agreement of ARLP upon the issuance of additional partnership securities by ARLP; and · reserves our general partner believes prudent for us to maintain for the proper conduct of our business or to provide for future distributions. We cannot guarantee that in the future we will be able to pay distributions or that any distributions we do make will be at or above our current quarterly distribution level. The actual amount of cash that is available for distribution to our unitholders will depend on numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control or the control of our general partner. ARLP’s cash distributions are not guaranteed and may fluctuate with its performance and other external factors. The amount of cash that ARLP can distribute to holders of its common units or other partnership securities, including us, each quarter principally depends on the amount of cash it generates from its operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: · the amount of coal the ARLP Partnership is able to produce from its properties; · the price at which it is able to sell coal, which is affected by the supply of and demand for domestic and foreign coal; · the level of its operating costs; · weather conditions and patterns; · the proximity to and capacity of transportation facilities; · domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; · regulatory, administrative, and judicial decisions; · competition within the coal industry; · the price and availability of alternative fuels; · the effect of worldwide energy consumption; and · prevailing economic conditions. In addition, the actual amount of cash that ARLP will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, including: · the level of its capital expenditures; · the cost of acquisitions, if any; · its debt service requirements and restrictions on distributions contained in its current or future debt agreements; · fluctuations in its working capital needs; 22 Table of Contents · unavailability of financing resulting in unanticipated liquidity constraints; · the ability of ARLP to borrow under its credit agreement to make distributions to its unitholders; and · the amount, if any, of cash reserves established by MGP, in its discretion, for the proper conduct of ARLP’s business. Because of these and other factors, ARLP may not have sufficient available cash to pay a specific level of cash distributions to its unitholders. Furthermore, the amount of cash that ARLP has available for distribution depends primarily upon its cash flow, including cash flow from financial reserves and working capital borrowing, and is not solely a function of profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, ARLP may be able to make cash distributions during periods when it records net losses and may be unable to make cash distributions during periods when it records net income. Please read “—Risks Related to ARLP’s Business” for a discussion of further risks affecting ARLP’s ability to generate available cash and “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 11 – Variable Interest Entities for further discussion of restrictions on the cash available for distribution. ARLP’s managing general partner, with our consent, may limit or modify the incentive distributions we are entitled to receive in order to facilitate ARLP’s growth strategy. Our general partner’s board of directors can give this consent without a vote of our unitholders. We own ARLP’s managing general partner, which owns the IDRs in ARLP that entitle us to receive increasing percentages, up to a maximum of 48%, of any cash distributed by ARLP, as certain target distribution levels are reached in excess of $0.1375 per ARLP unit in any quarter. The IDRs currently participate at the maximum 48% target cash distribution level at current ARLP distribution levels. A substantial portion of the cash flow we receive from ARLP is provided by these IDRs. The board of directors of MGP (“MGP Board of Directors”) may reduce the distributions related to the IDRs payable to us with our consent, which we may provide without the approval of our unitholders. A reduction in ARLP’s distributions will disproportionately affect the amount of cash distributions to which we are currently entitled. MGP’s ownership of the IDRs in ARLP entitles us to receive specified percentages of total cash distributions made by ARLP with respect to any particular quarter only in the event that ARLP distributes more than $0.1375 per unit for such quarter. As a result, the holders of ARLP’s common units have a priority over the holders of ARLP’s IDRs to the extent of cash distributions by ARLP up to and including $0.1375 per unit for any quarter. MGP’s ownership of the IDRs in ARLP entitles us to receive up to 48% of all cash distributed by ARLP. Because the IDRs participate at the maximum 48% target cash distribution level at current ARLP distribution levels, future growth in distributions we receive from ARLP will not result from an increase in the target cash distribution level associated with the IDRs. Furthermore, a decrease in the amount of distributions by ARLP to less than $0.1875 per common unit per quarter would reduce MGP’s percentage of the incremental cash distributions above to 23% of the amount above $0.15625 per common unit per quarter, a decrease in the ARLP distribution to less than $0.15625 would reduce MGP’s percentage to 13% of the amount above $0.1375, and a decrease below that level would reduce the percentage of incremental cash distributions to zero. As a result, any such reduction in quarterly cash distributions from ARLP would disproportionately reduce the amount of all distributions that we receive from ARLP as compared to the impact on the holders of ARLP common units. Restrictions in future financing agreements could limit ARLP’s ability to make distributions to its unitholders, borrow additional funds or capitalize on business opportunities. Any future credit facility could include such provisions and the ARLP Partnership’s ability to comply with them may be affected by events beyond its control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. Failure to comply with any such restrictions or covenants could have significant consequences, such as causing a significant portion of the indebtedness under such a facility to become immediately due and payable or the ARLP Partnership’s lenders’ commitment to make further loans to it under such facility to terminate. The ARLP Partnership might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make such payments. The ARLP Partnership’s payment of principal and interest on any future indebtedness will reduce its cash available for distribution on its units. In addition, any future levels of indebtedness may: 23 Table of Contents · adversely affect the ARLP Partnership’s ability to obtain additional financing for future operations or capital needs; · limit its ability to pursue acquisitions and other business opportunities; or · make its results of operations more susceptible to adverse economic or operating conditions. Our unitholders do not elect our general partner or vote on our general partner’s officers or directors. Units held by the Management Group (some of whom are current or former members of management) and their affiliates currently own 70.7% of our units, a sufficient number of our common units to block any attempt to remove our general partner. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, our unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Our unitholders do not have the ability to elect our general partner or the officers or directors of our general partner. The Board of Directors, including our independent directors, is chosen by the members of our general partner. Furthermore, if our unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. Our general partner may not be removed except upon the vote of the holders of at least 2/3rds of our outstanding units. Because the Management Group (some of whom are current or former members of management) and their affiliates currently own 70.7% of our outstanding common units, it is not currently possible for our general partner to be removed without their consent. As a result, the price at which our units trade may be lower because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. We may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests, on terms and conditions established by our general partner, without the consent of our unitholders, which will dilute your ownership interest in us and may increase the risk that we will not have sufficient available cash to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: · our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; · the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; · the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; · the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; and · the market price of our common units may decline. The market price of our common units could be adversely affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common units in the public markets, including sales by our existing unitholders. The Management Group and their affiliates currently own 70.7% of our units. Sales by any of our existing unitholders of a substantial number of our common units in the public markets could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common units or could impair our ability to obtain capital through an offering of equity securities. We do not know whether any such sales would be made in the public market or in private placements, nor do we know what impact such potential or actual sales would have on our unit price in the future. Control of our general partner and the IDRs in ARLP may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest in us to a third party in a merger or in a sale of its equity securities without the consent of our unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in our partnership agreement on the ability of the owner of our general partner to sell or transfer all or part of its ownership interest in our general partner to a third-party. The new owner or owners of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the directors and officers of our general partner and control the decisions made and actions taken by its board of directors and officers. In addition, the owner of our general partner controls MGP, the owner of the IDRs in ARLP. Control of MGP can likewise be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our ability to sell our partnership interests in ARLP may be limited by securities law restrictions and liquidity constraints. Of the 31,088,338 common units of ARLP that we own, 12,845,062 common units are unregistered, restricted securities within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Unless we exercise our registration rights with 24 Table of Contents respect to these common units, we are limited to selling into the market in any three-month period an amount of ARLP common units that does not exceed the greater of 1% of the total number of common units outstanding or the average weekly reported trading volume of the common units for the four calendar weeks prior to the sale. We face contractual limitations on our ability to sell our general partner interest and IDRs, and the market for such interests is illiquid. We depend on the leadership and involvement of Joseph W. Craft III and other key personnel for the success of our and ARLP’s business. We depend on the leadership and involvement of Mr. Craft, the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of our general partner and a Director and President and Chief Executive Officer of ARLP’s managing general partner. Mr. Craft has been integral to the success of ARLP and us, due in part to his ability to identify and develop internal growth projects and accretive acquisitions, make strategic decisions and attract and retain key personnel. The loss of his leadership and involvement or the services of any members of our or ARLP’s senior management team could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and those of ARLP. Your liability as a limited partner may not be limited, and our unitholders may have to repay distributions or make additional contributions to us under certain circumstances. As a limited partner in a partnership organized under Delaware law, you could be held liable for our obligations to the same extent as a general partner if you participate in the “control” of our business. Our general partner generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. Additionally, the limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in many jurisdictions. Under certain circumstances, our unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully distributed to them. Under Delaware law, neither we nor ARLP may make a distribution to our unitholders if the distribution would cause our or ARLP’s respective liabilities to exceed the fair value of our respective assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the partnership for the distribution amount. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. An increase in interest rates may cause the market price of our common units to decline. Like all equity investments, an investment in our common units is subject to certain risks. In exchange for accepting these risks, investors may expect to receive a higher rate of return than would otherwise be obtainable from lower-risk investments. Accordingly, as interest rates rise, the ability of investors to obtain higher risk-adjusted rates of return by purchasing government-backed debt securities may cause a corresponding decline in demand for riskier investments generally, including yield-based equity investments such as publicly traded limited partnership interests. Reduced demand for our common units resulting from investors seeking other more favorable investment opportunities may cause the trading price of our common units to decline. If in the future we cease to manage and control ARLP, we may be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we cease to manage and control ARLP and are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 because of our ownership of ARLP partnership interests, we would either have to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, obtain exemptive relief from the SEC or modify our organizational structure or our contract rights to fall outside the definition of an investment company. Registering as an investment company could, among other things, materially limit our ability to engage in transactions with affiliates, including the purchase and sale of certain securities or other property to or from our affiliates, restrict our ability to borrow funds or engage in other transactions involving leverage and require us to add additional directors who are independent of us or our affiliates. 25 Table of Contents The price of our common units may be volatile, and the trading market for our common units may not provide you with adequate liquidity. The market price of our common units could be subject to significant fluctuations. Factors that could affect our common unit price include: · ARLP’s operating and financial performance and prospects; · quarterly variations in the rate of growth of our financial indicators, such as net income and revenues; · changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports by analysts; · the current economic downturn; · the price of coal and expectations for the future of the coal industry; · speculation by the press or investment community; · sales of our common units by our unitholders; · actions by our existing unitholders prior to their disposition of our common units; · announcements by ARLP or its competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, securities offerings or capital commitments; · general market conditions; and · domestic and international economic, legal and regulatory factors related to ARLP’s performance. The equity markets in general are subject to volatility that may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common units. In addition, potential investors may be deterred from investing in our common units for various reasons, including the very limited number of publicly traded entities whose assets consist almost exclusively of partnership interests in a publicly traded partnership. The lack of liquidity may also contribute to significant fluctuations in the market price of our common units and limit the number of investors who are able to buy our common units. Our common units and ARLP’s common units may not trade in simple relation or proportion to one another. Instead, the trading prices may diverge because, among other things: · ARLP’s cash distributions to its common unitholders have a priority over distributions on its IDRs; · we participate in the IDRs in ARLP, while ARLP’s common unitholders do not; and · we may enter into other businesses separate and apart from ARLP or any of its affiliates. Our partnership agreement restricts the rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our units. Our unitholders’ voting rights are restricted by the provision in our partnership agreement generally providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the Board of Directors, cannot be voted on any matter. In addition, our partnership agreement contains provisions limiting the ability of our unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting our unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of our management. As a result, the price at which our common units will trade may be lower because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. ARLP may issue additional units, which may increase the risk that ARLP will not have sufficient available cash to maintain or increase its per unit distribution level. ARLP has wide latitude to issue additional units on terms and conditions established by MGP, including units that rank senior to the ARLP common units and the IDRs as to quarterly cash distributions. The payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that ARLP may not have sufficient cash available to maintain or increase its per unit distribution level, which in turn may impact the available cash that we have to distribute to our unitholders. To the extent these units are senior to the common units or the IDRs, there is an increased risk that we will not receive the same level or increased distributions on the common units and IDRs. Neither the common units nor the IDRs are entitled to any arrearages from prior quarters. Risks Related to Conflicts of Interest Conflicts of interest exist and may arise in the future among us, ARLP and our respective general partners and affiliates. Future conflicts of interest may arise among us and the entities affiliated with any general partner interests we 26 Table of Contents acquire or among ARLP and such entities. For a further discussion of conflicts of interest that may arise, please read “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related-Party Transactions, and Director Independence.” Although we control ARLP through our ownership of ARLP’s managing general partner, ARLP’s managing general partner owes fiduciary duties to ARLP and ARLP’s unitholders, which may conflict with our interests. Conflicts of interest exist and may arise in the future as a result of the relationships between us and our affiliates, including ARLP’s managing general partner, on the one hand, and ARLP and its limited partners, on the other hand. The directors and officers of ARLP’s managing general partner have fiduciary duties to manage ARLP in a manner beneficial to us, its owner. At the same time, ARLP’s managing general partner has a fiduciary duty to manage ARLP in a manner beneficial to ARLP and its limited partners. The MGP Board of Directors will resolve any such conflict and has broad latitude to consider the interests of all parties to the conflict. The resolution of these conflicts may not always be in our best interest or that of our unitholders. For example, conflicts of interest may arise in the following situations: · the allocation of shared overhead expenses to ARLP and us; · the interpretation and enforcement of contractual obligations between us and our affiliates, on the one hand, and ARLP, on the other hand; · the determination and timing of the amount of cash to be distributed to ARLP’s partners and the amount of cash to be reserved for the future conduct of ARLP’s business; · the decision as to whether ARLP should make acquisitions, and on what terms; · the determination of whether ARLP should use cash on hand, borrow or issue equity to raise cash to finance acquisition or expansion capital projects, repay indebtedness, meet working capital needs, pay distributions to ARLP’s partners or otherwise; and · any decision we make in the future to engage in business activities independent of, or in competition with, ARLP. The fiduciary duties of our general partner’s officers and directors may conflict with those of ARLP’s general partner’s officers and directors. Our general partner’s officers and directors have fiduciary duties to manage our business in a manner beneficial to us and our partners. However, all of our general partner’s executive officers also serve as executive officers of MGP. In addition, our general partner’s non-independent director and one of our independent directors also serve as directors of MGP. As a result, these executive officers and directors have fiduciary duties to manage the business of ARLP in a manner beneficial to ARLP and its partners. Consequently, these directors and officers may encounter situations in which their fiduciary obligations to ARLP, on one hand, and us, on the other hand, are in conflict. The resolution of these conflicts may not always be in our best interest or that of our unitholders. If we are presented with certain business opportunities, ARLP will have the first right to pursue such opportunities. Pursuant to an agreement among ARLP, SGP, MGP, ARH, ARH II, our general partner and us, among others, (referred to as the omnibus agreement), we have agreed to certain business opportunity arrangements to address potential conflicts that may arise between us and ARLP. If a business opportunity in respect of any coal mining, marketing and transportation assets is presented to us, our general partner, ARLP or its general partners, then ARLP will have the first right to acquire such assets. The omnibus agreement provides, among other things, that ARLP will be presumed to desire to acquire the assets until such time as it advises us that it has abandoned the pursuit of such business opportunity, and we may not pursue the acquisition of such assets prior to that time. ARLP and affiliates of our general partner are not limited in their ability to compete with us, which could cause conflicts of interest and limit our ability to acquire additional assets or businesses which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Neither our partnership agreement nor the omnibus agreement prohibits ARLP or affiliates of our general partner from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us or one another. In addition, ARLP and its affiliates or affiliates of our general partner, may acquire, construct or dispose of additional assets related to the mining, marketing and transportation of coal or other assets in the future, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or construct any of those assets. As a result, competition among these entities could adversely impact ARLP’s or our results of operations and cash available for distribution. 27 Table of Contents Potential conflicts of interest may arise among our general partner, its affiliates and us. Our general partner and its affiliates have limited fiduciary duties to us and our unitholders, which may permit them to favor their own interests to the detriment of us and our unitholders. Conflicts of interest may arise among our general partner and its affiliates, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following: · Our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, including ARLP and its affiliates and any other businesses acquired in the future, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to our unitholders. · Our general partner has limited its liability and reduced its fiduciary duties under the terms of our partnership agreement, while also restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without these limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duties. As a result of purchasing our units, unitholders consent to various actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable state law. · Our general partner determines the amount and timing of our investment transactions, borrowings, issuances of additional partnership securities and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available for distribution to our unitholders. · Our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us. · Our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered, or from entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf, so long as the terms of any such payments or additional contractual arrangements are fair and reasonable to us. · Our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by it and its affiliates. · Our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. The president and chief executive officer of both our general partner and ARLP’s managing general partner effectively controls us and ARLP through his control of our general partner and ARLP’s managing general partner. Mr. Craft, the president and chief executive officer of both our general partner and ARLP’s managing general partner, controls ARLP’s managing general partner, indirectly jointly owns SGP and owns or controls 42.3% of ARLP’s common units. Mr. Craft also currently holds, directly or indirectly or may be deemed to be the beneficial owner of, 68.6% of our common units. These interests give Mr. Craft substantial control over our and ARLP’s business and operations and the ability to control the outcome of many matters that require unitholder approval. Mr. Craft is not restricted from disposing of all or a part of his equity interests in our general partner, in ARLP’s managing general partner or in ARLP’s special general partner. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to us and our unitholders and restricts the remedies available to our unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement: · permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner. Examples include the exercise of its limited call right, its voting rights with respect to the units it owns, its registration rights and its determination whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of our partnership or amendment to our partnership agreement; · provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning it believed the decisions were in the best interests of our partnership; · generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the audit and conflicts committee of the Board of Directors and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third-parties or be “fair 28 Table of Contents and reasonable” to us and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships among the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; · provides that in resolving conflicts of interest, it will be presumed that in making its decision our general partner acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or us, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption; and · provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that the general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that such person’s conduct was criminal. In becoming a limited partner of our partnership, a common unitholder is bound by the provisions in the partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require you to sell your units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 85% of our outstanding units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, you may be required to sell your units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on your investment. You may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of your units. Risks Related to ARLP’s Business Because our cash flow consists exclusively of distributions from ARLP, risks to the ARLP Partnership’s business are also risks to us. We have set forth below many of the risks to ARLP’s business or results of operations, the occurrence of which could negatively impact the ARLP Partnership’s financial performance and decrease the amount of cash it is able to distribute to us, thereby decreasing the amount of cash we have available for distribution to our unitholders. Global economic conditions or economic conditions in any of the industries in which the ARLP Partnership customers operate as well as sustained uncertainty in financial markets may have material adverse impacts on its business and financial condition that it currently cannot predict. Weakness in global economic conditions or economic conditions in any of the industries the ARLP Partnership serves or in the financial markets could materially adversely affect the ARLP Partnership’s business and financial condition. For example: · the demand for electricity in the U.S. may decline if economic conditions deteriorate, which may negatively impact the revenues, margins and profitability of the ARLP Partnership’s business; · any inability of the ARLP Partnership’s customers to raise capital could adversely affect its ability to honor its obligations to us; and · ARLP Partnership’s future ability to access the capital markets may be restricted as a result of future economic conditions, which could materially impact the ARLP Partnership’s ability to grow its business, including development of its coal reserves. A substantial or extended decline in coal prices could negatively impact the ARLP Partnership’s results of operations. The ARLP Partnership’s results of operations are primarily dependent upon the prices it receives for its coal, as well as its ability to improve productivity and control costs. The prices the ARLP Partnership receives for its production depends upon factors beyond the ARLP Partnership’s control, including: · the supply of and demand for domestic and foreign coal; · weather conditions and patterns; · the proximity to and capacity of transportation facilities; · domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; · the price and availability of alternative fuels; · the effect of worldwide energy consumption; and 29 Table of Contents · prevailing economic conditions. Any adverse change in these factors could result in weaker demand and lower prices for the ARLP Partnership’s products. A substantial or extended decline in coal prices could materially and adversely affect the ARLP Partnership by decreasing its revenues to the extent that it is not protected by the terms of existing coal supply agreements. Fluctuations in the oil and natural gas industry could affect the ARLP Partnership’s profitability. Through its affiliate, Cavalier Minerals, the ARLP Partnership has investments in oil and gas mineral interests in the continental U.S. Consequently, the value of the investment as well as any resulting cash flows, may fluctuate with changes in the market and prices for oil and natural gas. During 2015, the oil and natural gas industry experienced a significant decrease in commodity prices driven by a global supply/demand imbalance for oil and an oversupply of natural gas in the U.S. The decline in commodity prices and the global economic conditions contributing to the decline have continued into 2016, and low commodity prices may exist for an extended period. If commodity prices continue to decline or remain depressed, the ARLP Partnership could see a decrease in the value of these investments or in the cash flows they generate. For more information on the ARLP Partnership’s involvement with AllDale Minerals, please read “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 12. Equity Investments” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Competition within the coal industry may adversely affect the ARLP Partnership’s ability to sell coal, and excess production capacity in the industry could put downward pressure on coal prices. The ARLP Partnership competes with other coal producers in various regions of the U.S. for domestic coal sales. The most important factors on which the ARLP Partnership competes are delivered price (i.e., the cost of coal delivered to the customer, including transportation costs, which are generally paid by customers either directly or indirectly), coal quality characteristics, contract flexibility (e.g., volume optionality and multiple supply sources) and reliability of supply. Some competitors may have, among other things, larger financial and operating resources, lower per ton cost of production, or relationships with specific transportation providers. The competition among coal producers may impact the ARLP Partnership’s ability to retain or attract customers and could adversely impact revenues and cash available for distribution. In addition, declining prices from an oversupply of coal in the market could reduce revenues and cash available for distribution. Changes in consumption patterns by utilities regarding the use of coal have affected the ARLP Partnership’s ability to sell the coal it produces. Since 2000, coal’s share of U.S. electricity production has fallen from 53% to 31%, while natural gas’ share has increased from 16% to 35%. The domestic electric utility industry accounts for over 93.0% of domestic coal consumption. The amount of coal consumed by the domestic electric utility industry is affected primarily by the overall demand for electricity, environmental and other governmental regulations, and the price and availability of competing fuels for power plants such as nuclear, natural gas and fuel oil as well as alternative sources of energy. Gas-fueled generation has the potential to displace coal-fueled generation, particularly from older, less efficient coal-powered generators. The ARLP Partnership expects that many of the new power plants needed in the U.S. to meet increasing demand for electricity generation will be fueled by natural gas because gas-fired plants are cheaper to construct and permits to construct these plants are easier to obtain. In addition, future environmental regulation of GHG emissions could accelerate the use by utilities of fuels other than coal. In addition, state and federal mandates for increased use of electricity derived from renewable energy sources could affect demand for coal. For example, the EPA’s CPP will likely incentivize additional electric generation from natural gas and renewable sources, and Congress has extended tax credits for renewables. In addition, a number of states have enacted mandates that require electricity suppliers to rely on renewable energy sources in generating a certain percentage of power. Such mandates, combined with other incentives to use renewable energy sources, such as tax credits, could make alternative fuel sources more competitive with coal. A decrease in coal consumption by the domestic electric utility industry could adversely affect the price of coal, which could negatively impact the ARLP Partnership’s results of operations and reduce its cash available for distribution to us. Extensive environmental laws and regulations affect coal consumers, and have corresponding effects on the demand for coal as a fuel source. Federal, state and local laws and regulations extensively regulate the amount of sulfur dioxide, particulate matter, nitrogen oxides, mercury and other compounds emitted into the air from coal-fired electric power plants, which are the ultimate consumers of much of the ARLP Partnership’s coal. These laws and regulations can require significant emission control expenditures for many coal-fired power plants, and various new and proposed laws and regulations may require further emission reductions and associated emission control expenditures. These laws and regulations may affect demand and prices for coal. There is also continuing pressure on state and federal regulators to impose limits on carbon dioxide emissions from electric power plants, particularly coal-fired power plants. Further, far-reaching federal regulations promulgated by the EPA in the last five years, such as CSAPR and MATS, have led to the premature retirement of coal-fired generating units and a significant reduction in the amount of coal-fired generating capacity in the U.S. At the President’s direction the EPA proposed CO2 emissions requirements, known as the CPP, for existing and modified power plants and published such rules on October 23, 2015. As a result of these current and proposed laws, regulations and regulatory initiatives, electricity generators may elect to switch to other fuels that generate less of these emissions or by-products, further reducing demand for coal. Please read “Item 1. Business—Regulation and Laws—Air Emissions,” “—Carbon Dioxide Emissions” and “—Hazardous Substances and Wastes.” 30 Table of Contents Increased regulation of GHG emissions could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for coal as a fuel source, which could reduce demand for the ARLP Partnership’s products, decrease its revenues and reduce its profitability. Combustion of fossil fuels, such as the coal the ARLP Partnership produces, results in the emission of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. On December 15, 2009, the EPA published the Endangerment Finding asserting that emissions of carbon dioxide and other GHGs present an endangerment to public health and the environment, and the EPA has begun to regulate GHG emissions pursuant to the CAA. The EPA has finalized a rule to regulate GHG emissions from new power plants. The finalized standard requires CCS, a technology that is not yet commercially feasible without government subsidies and that has not been demonstrated in the marketplace. This requirement effectively prevents construction of new coal fired power plants. In August 2015, the EPA finalized GHG emissions regulations for modified and existing power plants. The rule for modified sources requires reducing GHG emissions from any modified or reconstructed source and could limit the ability of generators to upgrade coal-fired power plants thereby reducing the demand for coal. The rule for existing sources proposes to establish different target emission rates (lbs per megawatt hour) for each state and has an overall goal to achieve a 32% reduction of carbon dioxide emissions from 2005 levels by 2030. If upheld by courts, the regulation could lead to premature retirements of coal-fired electric generating units and significantly reduce the demand for coal. In addition, many states and regions have adopted GHG initiatives. Also, there have been numerous protests of, and challenges to, the permitting of new coal-fired power plants by environmental organizations and state regulators due to concerns related to GHG emissions. Please read “Item 1. Business—Regulation and Laws—Air Emissions” and “—Carbon Dioxide Emissions.” Numerous political and regulatory authorities and governmental bodies, as well as environmental activist groups, are devoting substantial resources to anti-coal activities to minimize or eliminate the use of coal as a source of electricity generation, domestically and internationally, thereby further reducing the demand and pricing for coal and potentially materially and adversely impacting the ARLP Partnership’s future financial results, liquidity and growth prospects. Concerns about the environmental impacts of coal combustion, including perceived impacts on global climate issues, are resulting in increased regulation of coal combustion in many jurisdictions, unfavorable lending policies by lending institutions and divestment efforts affecting the investment community, which could significantly affect demand for the ARLP Partnership’s products or its securities. Global climate issues continue to attract public and scientific attention. Some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts and floods and other climatic events. Numerous reports, such as the Fourth and Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, have also engendered concern about the impacts of human activity, especially fossil fuel combustion, on global climate issues. In turn, increasing government attention is being paid to global climate issues and to emissions of GHGs, including emissions of carbon dioxide from coal combustion by power plants. Federal, state and local governments may pass laws mandating the use of alternative energy sources, such as wind power and solar energy, which may decrease demand for coal products. The CPP is one of a number of recent developments aimed at limiting GHG emissions which could limit the market for some of the ARLP Partnership’s products by encouraging electric generation from sources that do not generate the same amount of GHG emissions. Enactment of laws or passage of regulations regarding emissions from the combustion of coal by the U.S., states, or other countries, could also result in electricity generators further switching from coal to other fuel sources or additional coal-fueled power plant closures. For example, the agreement resulting from the 2015 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change contains voluntary commitments by numerous countries to reduce their GHG emissions, and could result in additional firm commitments by various nations with respect to future GHG emissions. These commitments could further disfavor coal-fired generation, particularly in the medium- to long-term. Congress has extended certain tax credits for renewable sources of electric generation, which will increase the ability of these sources to compete with coal products in the market. In addition, the U.S. Department of Interior recently announced a moratorium on issuing certain new coal leases on federal land while the Bureau of Land Management undertakes a programmatic review of the federal coal program. While none of the ARLP Partnership’s operations are located on federal lands impacted by this moratorium, it does signal increased attention at the federal level to coal mining practices and the GHG emissions resulting from coal combustion. 31 Table of Contents There have also been efforts in recent years affecting the investment community, including investment advisors, sovereign wealth funds, public pension funds, universities and other groups, promoting the divestment of fossil fuel equities and also pressuring lenders to limit funding to companies engaged in the extraction of fossil fuel reserves. In California, for example, legislation was signed into law in October 2015 that requires California’s state pension funds to divest investments in companies that generate 50% or more of their revenue from coal mining by July 2017. Other activist campaigns have urged banks to cease financing coal-driven businesses. As a result, at least ten major banks have enacted such policies in 2015. The impact of such efforts may adversely affect the demand for and price of securities issued by the ARLP Partnership, and impact its access to the capital and financial markets. In addition, several well-funded non-governmental organizations have explicitly undertaken campaigns to minimize or eliminate the use of coal as a source of electricity generation. Collectively, these actions and campaigns could adversely impact the ARLP Partnership’s future financial results, liquidity and growth prospects. Government regulations have resulted and could continue to result in significant retirements of coal-fired electric generating units. Retirements of coal-fired electric generating units decrease the overall capacity to burn coal and negatively impact coal demand. Since 2010, utilities have formally announced the retirement or conversion of 499 coal-fired electric generating units through 2030. These retirements and conversions amount to over 81,000 megawatts (“MW”) or approximately 25% of the 2010 total coal electric generating capacity. At the end of 2015 retirement and conversions affecting 47,000 MW, or approximately 15% of the 2010 total coal electric generating capacity, are estimated to have occurred. Most of these announced and completed retirements and conversions have been attributed to the EPA regulations, although other factors such as an aging coal fleet and low natural gas prices have also played a role. The reduction in coal electric capacity negatively impacts overall coal demand. Additional regulations, such as the EPA’s CPP approved earlier this year, and other factors could lead to additional retirements and conversions and, thereby, additional reductions in the demand for coal. Plaintiffs in federal court litigation have attempted to pursue tort claims based on the alleged effects of climate change. In 2004, eight states and New York City sued five electric utility companies in Connecticut v. American Electric Power Co. Invoking the federal and state common law of public nuisance, plaintiffs sought an injunction requiring defendants to abate their contribution to the nuisance of climate change by capping carbon dioxide emissions and then reducing them. In June 2011, the U.S. Supreme Court issued a unanimous decision holding that the plaintiffs’ federal common law claims were displaced by federal legislation and regulations. The U.S. Supreme Court did not address the plaintiffs’ state law tort claims and remanded the issue of preemption for the district court to consider. While the U.S. Supreme Court held that federal common law provides no basis for public nuisance claims against utilities due to their carbon dioxide emissions, tort-type liabilities remain a possibility and a source of concern. Proliferation of successful climate change litigation could adversely impact demand for coal and ultimately have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The stability and profitability of the ARLP Partnership’s operations could be adversely affected if its customers do not honor existing contracts or do not extend existing or enter into new long-term contracts for coal. In 2015, the ARLP Partnership sold approximately 92.2% of its sales tonnage under contracts having a term greater than one year, which the ARLP Partnership refers to as long-term contracts. Long-term sales contracts have historically provided a relatively secure market for the amount of production committed under the terms of the contracts. From time to time industry conditions may make it more difficult for the ARLP Partnership to enter into long-term contracts with its electric utility customers, and if supply exceeds demand in the coal industry, electric utilities may become less willing to lock in price or quantity commitments for an extended period of time. Accordingly, the ARLP Partnership may not be able to continue to obtain long-term sales contracts with reliable customers as existing contracts expire, which could subject a portion of the ARLP Partnership’s revenue stream to the increased volatility of the spot market. The ARLP Partnership’s business can be negatively impacted by customers refusing to honor existing contracts. For example, the ARLP Partnership initiated litigation on January 15, 2015 alleging that a customer anticipatorily breached a coal supply contract when it notified the ARLP Partnership that it would not accept coal shipments under the contract after April 15, 2015. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” 32 Table of Contents Some of the ARLP Partnership’s long-term coal sales contracts contain provisions allowing for the renegotiation of prices and, in some instances, the termination of the contract or the suspension of purchases by customers. Some of the ARLP Partnership’s long-term contracts contain provisions that allow for the purchase price to be renegotiated at periodic intervals. These price reopener provisions may automatically set a new price based on the prevailing market price or, in some instances, require the parties to the contract to agree on a new price. Any adjustment or renegotiation leading to a significantly lower contract price could adversely affect the ARLP Partnership’s operating profit margins. Accordingly, long-term contracts may provide only limited protection during adverse market conditions. In some circumstances, failure of the parties to agree on a price under a reopener provision can also lead to early termination of a contract. Several of the ARLP Partnership’s long-term contracts also contain provisions that allow the customer to suspend or terminate performance under the contract upon the occurrence or continuation of certain events that are beyond the customer’s reasonable control. Such events may include labor disputes, mechanical malfunctions and changes in government regulations, including changes in environmental regulations rendering use of the ARLP Partnership’s coal inconsistent with the customer’s environmental compliance strategies. Additionally, most of the ARLP Partnership’s long-term contracts contain provisions requiring it to deliver coal within stated ranges for specific coal characteristics. Failure to meet these specifications can result in economic penalties, rejection or suspension of shipments or termination of the contracts. In the event of early termination of any of the ARLP Partnership’s long-term contracts, if it is unable to enter into new contracts on similar terms, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The ARLP Partnership depends on a few customers for a significant portion of its revenues, and the loss of one or more significant customers could affect its ability to maintain the sales volume and price of the coal it produces. During 2015, the ARLP Partnership derived approximately 28.5% of its total revenues from two customers and at least 10.0% of its 2015 total revenues from each of the two. If the ARLP Partnership were to lose either of these customers without finding replacement customers willing to purchase an equivalent amount of coal on similar terms, or if these customers were to decrease the amounts of coal purchased or the terms, including pricing terms, on which they buy coal from the ARLP Partnership, it could have a material adverse effect on the ARLP Partnership’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Litigation resulting from disputes with the ARLP Partnership’s customers may result in substantial costs, liabilities and loss of revenues. From time to time the ARLP Partnership has disputes with its customers over the provisions of long-term coal supply contracts relating to, among other things, coal pricing, quality, quantity and the existence of specified conditions beyond the ARLP Partnership or its customers control that suspend performance obligations under the particular contract. Disputes may occur in the future and the ARLP Partnership may not be able to resolve those disputes in a satisfactory manner, which could have a material adverse effect on the ARLP Partnership’s business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” The ARLP Partnership’s ability to collect payments from its customers could be impaired if their creditworthiness declines or if they fail to honor their contracts with the ARLP Partnership. The ARLP Partnership’s ability to receive payment for coal sold and delivered depends on the continued creditworthiness of its customers. If the creditworthiness of its customers declines significantly, its business could be adversely affected. In addition, if a customer refuses to accept shipments of the ARLP Partnership’s coal for which they have an existing contractual obligation, the ARLP Partnership’s revenues will decrease and it may have to reduce production at its mines until its customer’s contractual obligations are honored. The ARLP Partnership’s profitability may decline due to unanticipated mine operating conditions and other events that are not within its control and that may not be fully covered under its insurance policies. The ARLP Partnership’s mining operations are influenced by changing conditions or events that can affect production levels and costs at particular mines for varying lengths of time and, as a result, can diminish its profitability. These conditions and events include, among others: 33 Table of Contents · mining and processing equipment failures and unexpected maintenance problems; · unavailability of required equipment; · prices for fuel, steel, explosives and other supplies; · fines and penalties incurred as a result of alleged violations of environmental and safety laws and regulations; · variations in thickness of the layer, or seam, of coal; · amounts of overburden, partings, rock and other natural materials; · weather conditions, such as heavy rains, flooding, ice and other natural events affecting operations, transportation or customers; · accidental mine water discharges and other geological conditions; · fires; · employee injuries or fatalities; · labor-related interruptions; · increased reclamation costs; · inability to acquire, maintain or renew mining rights or permits in a timely manner, if at all; · fluctuations in transportation costs and the availability or reliability of transportation; and · unexpected operational interruptions due to other factors. These conditions have the potential to significantly impact the ARLP Partnership’s operating results. Prolonged disruption of production at any of the ARLP Partnership’s mines would result in a decrease in its revenues and profitability, which could materially adversely impact its quarterly or annual results. Effective October 1, 2015, the ARLP Partnership renewed its annual property and casualty insurance program. The ARLP Partnership’s property insurance was procured from its wholly owned captive insurance company, Wildcat Insurance, LLC (“Wildcat Insurance”). Wildcat Insurance charged certain of the ARLP Partnership’s subsidiaries for the premiums on this program and in return purchased reinsurance for the program in the standard market at a reduced cost. The maximum limit in the commercial property program is $100.0 million per occurrence excluding a $1.5 million deductible for property damage, a 75, 90 or 120-day waiting period for underground business interruption depending on the mining complex and a $10.0 million overall aggregate deductible. The ARLP Partnership can make no assurances that it will not experience significant insurance claims in the future that could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to purchase property insurance in the future. Although none of the ARLP Partnership’s employees are members of unions, its work force may not remain union-free in the future. None of the ARLP Partnership’s employees are represented under collective bargaining agreements. However, all of its work force may not remain union-free in the future, and legislative, regulatory or other governmental action could make it more difficult to remain union-free. If some or all of the ARLP Partnership’s currently union-free operations were to become unionized, it could adversely affect its productivity and increase the risk of work stoppages at its mining complexes. In addition, even if the ARLP Partnership remains union-free, its operations may still be adversely affected by work stoppages at unionized companies, particularly if union workers were to orchestrate boycotts against the ARLP Partnership’s operations. The ARLP Partnership’s mining operations are subject to extensive and costly laws and regulations, and such current and future laws and regulations could increase current operating costs or limit the ARLP Partnership’s ability to produce coal. The ARLP Partnership is subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting the coal mining industry, including laws and regulations pertaining to employee health and safety, permitting and licensing requirements, air and water quality standards, plant and wildlife protection, reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining is completed, the discharge or release of materials into the environment, surface subsidence from underground mining and the effects that mining has on groundwater quality and availability. Certain of these laws and regulations may impose strict liability without regard to fault or legality of the original conduct. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial liabilities, and the issuance of injunctions limiting or prohibiting the performance of operations. Complying with these laws and regulations may be costly and time consuming and may delay commencement or continuation of exploration or production operations. The possibility exists that new laws or regulations may be adopted, or that judicial interpretations or more stringent enforcement of existing laws and regulations may occur, which could materially affect the ARLP Partnership’s mining operations, cash flow, and profitability, either through direct impacts on the ARLP Partnership’s 34 Table of Contents existing mining operations, or indirect impacts that discourage or limit the ARLP Partnership’s customers’ use of coal. Please read “Item 1. Business—Regulations and Laws.” State and federal laws addressing mine safety practices impose stringent reporting requirements and civil and criminal penalties for violations. Federal and state regulatory agencies continue to interpret and implement these laws and propose new regulations and standards. Implementing and complying with these laws and regulations has increased and will continue to increase the ARLP Partnership’s operational expense and to have an adverse effect on its results of operation and financial position. For more information, please read “Item 1. Business—Regulation and Laws—Mine Health and Safety Laws.” The ARLP Partnership may be unable to obtain and renew permits necessary for its operations, which could reduce its production, cash flow and profitability. Mining companies must obtain numerous governmental permits or approvals that impose strict conditions and obligations relating to various environmental and safety matters in connection with coal mining. The permitting rules are complex and can change over time. Regulatory authorities exercise considerable discretion in the timing and scope of permit issuance. The public has the right to comment on permit applications and otherwise participate in the permitting process, including through court intervention. Accordingly, permits required to conduct the ARLP Partnership’s operations may not be issued, maintained or renewed, or may not be issued or renewed in a timely fashion, or may involve requirements that restrict the ARLP Partnership’s ability to economically conduct its mining operations. Limitations on the ARLP Partnership’s ability to conduct its mining operations due to the inability to obtain or renew necessary permits or similar approvals could reduce the ARLP Partnership’s production, cash flow and profitability. Please read “Item 1. Business—Regulations and Laws—Mining Permits and Approvals.” The EPA has begun reviewing permits required for the discharge of overburden from mining operations under Section 404 of the CWA. Various initiatives by the EPA regarding these permits have increased the time required to obtain and the costs of complying with such permits. In addition, the EPA previously exercised its “veto” power to withdraw or restrict the use of previously issued permits in connection with one of the largest surface mining operations in Appalachia. The EPA’s action was ultimately upheld by a federal court. As a result of these developments, the ARLP Partnership may be unable to obtain or experience delays in securing, utilizing or renewing Section 404 permits required for its operations, which could have an adverse effect on its results of operation and financial position. Please read “Item 1. Business—Regulations and Laws—Water Discharge.” In addition, some of the ARLP Partnership’s permits could be subject to challenges from the public, which could result in additional costs or delays in the permitting process, or even an inability to obtain permits, permit modifications, or permit renewals necessary for our operations. Fluctuations in transportation costs and the availability or reliability of transportation could reduce revenues by causing the ARLP Partnership to reduce its production or by impairing its ability to supply coal to its customers. Transportation costs represent a significant portion of the total cost of coal for the ARLP Partnership’s customers and, as a result, the cost of transportation is a critical factor in a customer’s purchasing decision. Increases in transportation costs could make coal a less competitive source of energy or could make the ARLP Partnership’s coal production less competitive than coal produced from other sources. Disruption of transportation services due to weather-related problems, flooding, drought, accidents, mechanical difficulties, strikes, lockouts, bottlenecks or other events could temporarily impair the ARLP Partnership’s ability to supply coal to its customers. The ARLP Partnership’s transportation providers may face difficulties in the future that may impair its ability to supply coal to its customers, resulting in decreased revenues. If there are disruptions of the transportation services provided by the ARLP Partnership’s primary rail or barge carriers that transport its coal and the ARLP Partnership is unable to find alternative transportation providers to ship its coal, its business could be adversely affected. Conversely, significant decreases in transportation costs could result in increased competition from coal producers in other parts of the country. For instance, difficulty in coordinating the many eastern coal loading facilities, the large number of small shipments, the steeper average grades of the terrain and a more unionized workforce are all issues that combine to make coal shipments originating in the eastern U.S. inherently more expensive on a per-mile basis than coal shipments originating in the western U.S. Historically, high coal transportation rates from the western coal producing areas into certain eastern markets limited the use of western coal in those markets. Lower rail rates from the western coal producing areas to markets served by eastern U.S. coal producers have created major competitive challenges for eastern coal producers. In the event of further reductions in transportation costs from western coal producing areas, the 35 Table of Contents increased competition with certain eastern coal markets could have a material adverse effect on the ARLP Partnership’s business, financial condition and results of operations. It is possible that states in which the ARLP Partnership’s coal is transported by truck may modify or increase enforcement of their laws regarding weight limits or coal trucks on public roads. Such legislation and enforcement efforts could result in shipment delays and increased costs. An increase in transportation costs could have an adverse effect on the ARLP Partnership’s ability to increase or to maintain production and could adversely affect revenues. The ARLP Partnership may not be able to successfully grow through future acquisitions. Since ARLP’s formation and the acquisition of its predecessor in August 1999, the ARLP Partnership has expanded its operations by adding and developing mines and coal reserves in existing, adjacent and neighboring properties. The ARLP Partnership continually seeks to expand its operations and coal reserves. The ARLP Partnership’s future growth could be limited if it is unable to continue to make acquisitions, or if it is unable to successfully integrate the companies, businesses or properties it acquires. The ARLP Partnership may not be successful in consummating any acquisitions and the consequences of undertaking these acquisitions are unknown. Moreover, any acquisition could be dilutive to earnings and distributions to unitholders and any additional debt incurred to finance an acquisition could affect the ARLP Partnership’s ability to make distributions to unitholders. The ARLP Partnership’s ability to make acquisitions in the future could require significant amounts of financing that may not be available to the ARLP Partnership under acceptable terms and may be limited by restrictions under its existing or future debt agreements, competition from other coal companies for attractive properties or the lack of suitable acquisition candidates. Expansions and acquisitions involve a number of risks, any of which could cause the ARLP Partnership not to realize the anticipated benefits. If the ARLP Partnership is unable to successfully integrate the companies, businesses or properties it acquires, its profitability may decline and it could experience a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, or results of operations. Expansion and acquisition transactions involve various inherent risks, including: · uncertainties in assessing the value, strengths, and potential profitability of, and identifying the extent of all weaknesses, risks, contingent and other liabilities (including environmental or mine safety liabilities) of, expansion and acquisition opportunities; · the ability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies anticipated to result from an expansion or an acquisition; · problems that could arise from the integration of the new operations; and · unanticipated changes in business, industry or general economic conditions that affect the assumptions underlying the ARLP Partnership’s rationale for pursuing the expansion or acquisition opportunity. Any one or more of these factors could cause the ARLP Partnership not to realize the benefits anticipated to result from an expansion or acquisition. Any expansion or acquisition opportunities the ARLP Partnership pursues could materially affect its liquidity and capital resources and may require it to incur indebtedness, seek equity capital or both. In addition, future expansions or acquisitions could result in the ARLP Partnership assuming more long-term liabilities relative to the value of the acquired assets than it has assumed in its previous expansions and/or acquisitions. Completion of growth projects and future expansion could require significant amounts of financing that may not be available to the ARLP Partnership on acceptable terms, or at all. The ARLP Partnership plans to fund capital expenditures for its current growth projects with existing cash balances, future cash flows from operations, borrowings under revolving credit and securitization facilities and cash provided from the issuance of debt or equity. Weakness in the energy sector in general and coal in particular has significantly impacted access to the debt and equity capital markets. Accordingly, the ARLP Partnership’s funding plans may be negatively impacted by this constrained environment as well as numerous other factors, including higher than anticipated capital expenditures or lower than expected cash flow from operations. In addition, the ARLP Partnership may be unable to refinance its current revolving credit and securitization facilities when they expire or obtain adequate funding prior to expiry because its lending counterparties may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations. Furthermore, additional growth projects and expansion opportunities may develop in the future that could also require significant amounts of financing that may not be available to the ARLP Partnership on acceptable terms or in the amounts it expects, or at all. 36 Table of Contents Various factors could adversely impact the debt and equity capital markets as well as the ARLP Partnership’s credit ratings or its ability to remain in compliance with the financial covenants under its then current debt agreements, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If the ARLP Partnership is unable to finance its growth and future expansions as expected, it could be required to seek alternative financing, the terms of which may not be attractive to it, or to revise or cancel its plans. The unavailability of an adequate supply of coal reserves that can be mined at competitive costs could cause the ARLP Partnership’s profitability to decline. The ARLP Partnership’s profitability depends substantially on its ability to mine coal reserves that have the geological characteristics that enable them to be mined at competitive costs and to meet the quality needed by the ARLP Partnership’s customers. Because the ARLP Partnership depletes its reserves as it mines coal, its future success and growth depend, in part, upon its ability to acquire additional coal reserves that are economically recoverable. Replacement reserves may not be available when required or, if available, may not be mineable at costs comparable to those of the depleting mines. The ARLP Partnership may not be able to accurately assess the geological characteristics of any reserves that it acquires, which may adversely affect its profitability and financial condition. Exhaustion of reserves at particular mines also may have an adverse effect on the ARLP Partnership’s operating results that is disproportionate to the percentage of overall production represented by such mines. The ARLP Partnership’s ability to obtain other reserves in the future could be limited by restrictions under its existing or future debt agreements, competition from other coal companies for attractive properties, the lack of suitable acquisition candidates or the inability to acquire coal properties on commercially reasonable terms. The estimates of the ARLP Partnership’s coal reserves may prove inaccurate and could result in decreased profitability. The estimates of the ARLP Partnership’s coal reserves may vary substantially from actual amounts of coal it is able to economically recover. The reserve data set forth in “Item 2. Properties” represent the ARLP Partnership’s engineering estimates. All of the reserves presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitute proven and probable reserves. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of reserves, including many factors beyond the ARLP Partnership’s control. Estimates of coal reserves necessarily depend upon a number of variables and assumptions, any one of which may vary considerably from actual results. These factors and assumptions relate to: · geological and mining conditions, which may not be fully identified by available exploration data and/or differ from the ARLP Partnership’s experiences in areas where it currently mines; · the percentage of coal in the ground ultimately recoverable; · historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas; · the assumed effects of regulation and taxes by governmental agencies; and · assumptions concerning future coal prices, operating costs, capital expenditures, severance and excise taxes and development and reclamation costs. For these reasons, estimates of the recoverable quantities of coal attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of future net cash flows expected from these properties as prepared by different engineers, or by the same engineers at different times, may vary substantially. Actual production, revenue and expenditures with respect to the ARLP Partnership’s reserves will likely vary from estimates, and these variations may be material. Any inaccuracy in the estimates of the ARLP Partnership’s reserves could result in higher than expected costs and decreased profitability. Mining in certain areas in which the ARLP Partnership operates is more difficult and involves more regulatory constraints than mining in other areas of the U.S., which could affect the mining operations and cost structures of these areas. The geological characteristics of some of the ARLP Partnership’s coal reserves, such as depth of overburden and coal seam thickness, make them difficult and costly to mine. As mines become depleted, replacement reserves may not be available when required or, if available, may not be mineable at costs comparable to those characteristic of the depleting mines. In addition, permitting, licensing and other environmental and regulatory requirements associated with certain of the ARLP Partnership’s mining operations are more costly and time-consuming to satisfy. These factors could materially adversely affect the mining operations and cost structures of, and the ARLP Partnership’s customers’ ability to use coal produced by, the ARLP Partnership’s mines. 37 Table of Contents Some of the ARLP Partnership’s operating subsidiaries lease a portion of the surface properties upon which their mining facilities are located. The ARLP Partnership’s operating subsidiaries do not, in all instances, own all of the surface properties upon which their mining facilities have been constructed. Certain of the operating companies have constructed and now operate all or some portion of their facilities on properties owned by unrelated third parties with whom the subsidiary has entered into a long-term lease. The ARLP Partnership has no reason to believe that there exists any risk of loss of these leasehold rights given the terms and provisions of the subject leases and the nature and identity of the third-party lessors; however, in the unlikely event of any loss of these leasehold rights, operations could be disrupted or otherwise adversely impacted as a result of increased costs associated with retaining the necessary land use. Unexpected increases in raw material costs could significantly impair the ARLP Partnership’s operating profitability. The ARLP Partnership’s coal mining operations are affected by commodity prices. The ARLP Partnership uses significant amounts of steel, petroleum products and other raw materials in various pieces of mining equipment, supplies and materials, including the roof bolts required by the room-and-pillar method of mining. Steel prices and the prices of scrap steel, natural gas and coking coal consumed in the production of iron and steel fluctuate significantly and may change unexpectedly. There may be acts of nature or terrorist attacks or threats that could also impact the future costs of raw materials. Future volatility in the price of steel, petroleum products or other raw materials will impact the ARLP Partnership’s operational expenses and could result in significant fluctuations in its profitability. The ARLP Partnership’s indebtedness may limit its ability to borrow additional funds, make distributions to unitholders or capitalize on business opportunities. The ARLP Partnership has long-term indebtedness, consisting of its outstanding senior unsecured notes, revolving credit facility and its term loan agreement. At December 31, 2015, the ARLP Partnership’s total long-term indebtedness outstanding was $819.3 million. The ARLP Partnership’s leverage may: · adversely affect its ability to finance future operations and capital needs; · limit its ability to pursue acquisitions and other business opportunities; · make its results of operations more susceptible to adverse economic or operating conditions; and · make it more difficult to self-insure for the ARLP Partnership’s workers’ compensation obligations. In addition, the ARLP Partnership has unused borrowing capacity under its revolving credit facility. Future borrowings, under credit facilities or otherwise, could result in a significant increase in the ARLP Partnership’s leverage. The ARLP Partnership’s payments of principal and interest on any indebtedness will reduce the cash available for distribution on its units. The ARLP Partnership will be prohibited from making cash distributions: · during an event of default under any of its indebtedness; or · if either before or after such distribution, it fails to meet a coverage test based on the ratio of its consolidated debt to its consolidated cash flow. Various limitations in the ARLP Partnership’s debt agreements may reduce its ability to incur additional indebtedness, to engage in some transactions and to capitalize on business opportunities. Any subsequent refinancing of the ARLP Partnership’s current indebtedness or any new indebtedness could have similar or greater restrictions. Federal and state laws require bonds to secure the ARLP Partnership’s obligations related to statutory reclamation requirements and workers’ compensation and black lung benefits. The ARLP Partnership’s inability to acquire or failure to maintain surety bonds that are required by state and federal law would have a material adverse effect on it. Federal and state laws require the ARLP Partnership to place and maintain bonds to secure its obligations to repair and return property to its approximate original state after it has been mined (often referred to as “reclaim” or “reclamation”), to pay federal and state workers’ compensation and pneumoconiosis, or black lung, benefits and to satisfy other miscellaneous obligations. These bonds provide assurance that the ARLP Partnership will perform its statutorily required obligations and are referred to as “surety” bonds. These bonds are typically renewable on a yearly basis. The failure to maintain or the inability to acquire sufficient surety bonds, as required by state and federal laws, could subject 38 Table of Contents the ARLP Partnership to fines and penalties and result in the loss of its mining permits. Such failure could result from a variety of factors, including: · lack of availability, higher expense or unreasonable terms of new surety bonds; · the ability of current and future surety bond issuers to increase required collateral, or limitations on availability of collateral for surety bond issuers due to the terms of the ARLP Partnership’s credit agreements; and · the exercise by third-party surety bond holders of their rights to refuse to renew the surety. The ARLP Partnership has outstanding surety bonds with governmental agencies for reclamation, federal and state workers’ compensation and other obligations. At December 31, 2015, the ARLP Partnership’s total of such obligations was $234.0 million. The ARLP Partnership may have difficulty maintaining its surety bonds for mine reclamation as well as workers’ compensation and black lung benefits. In addition, those governmental agencies may increase the amount of bonding required. The ARLP Partnership’s inability to acquire or failure to maintain these bonds, or a substantial increase in the bonding requirements, would have a material adverse effect on it. The ARLP Partnership and its subsidiaries are subject to various legal proceedings, which may have a material effect on its business. The ARLP Partnership is party to a number of legal proceedings incident to its normal business activities. There is the potential that an individual matter or the aggregation of multiple matters could have an adverse effect on the ARLP Partnership’s cash flows, results of operations or financial position. Please see “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 20. Commitments and Contingencies” for further discussion. Tax Risks to Our Common Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) treats us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, or we or ARLP become subject to entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax benefit of an investment in our units depends largely on AHGP being treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The value of our investment in ARLP depends largely on ARLP being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. Despite the fact that we and ARLP are organized as limited partnerships under Delaware law, we and ARLP would be treated as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes unless we and ARLP satisfy a “qualifying income” requirement. Based upon ARLP’s current operations, we believe we and ARLP satisfy the qualifying income requirement. However, neither we nor ARLP have requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other matter affecting us or ARLP. Failing to meet the qualifying income requirement or a change in current law could cause us or ARLP to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us or ARLP to taxation as an entity. If we or ARLP were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would pay U.S. federal income tax on our income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would likely be liable for state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to our unitholders. Because taxes would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, our treatment as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of the units. ARLP’s partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects ARLP to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects ARLP to entity-level taxation for U.S. federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution (“MQD”) amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on ARLP. Likewise, our cash distributions to you will be reduced if we or ARLP is subjected to any form of such entity-level taxation. At the state level, several states have been evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. If any state were to impose a tax upon us or ARLP as an entity, the cash available for distribution to you would be reduced and the value of our common units or ARLP common units could be negatively impacted. 39 Table of Contents The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes or differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us and ARLP, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time. For example, the Obama administration’s budget proposal for fiscal year 2017 recommends that certain publicly traded partnerships earning income from activities related to fossil fuels be taxed as corporations beginning in 2022. From time to time, members of Congress propose and consider such substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. If successful, the Obama administration’s proposal or other similar proposals could eliminate the qualifying income exception to the treatment of all publicly-traded partnerships as corporations upon which we and ARLP rely for our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In addition, the IRS, on May 5, 2015, issued proposed regulations concerning which activities give rise to qualifying income within the meaning of Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code. We do not believe the proposed regulations affect our ability to qualify as a publicly traded partnership. However, finalized regulations could modify the amount of our gross income that we are able to treat as qualifying income for the purposes of the qualifying income requirement. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible for us or ARLP to meet the exception for certain publicly traded partnerships to be treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the amount of our common unit distributions and the value of an investment in our common units. If the IRS were to contest the federal income tax positions we take, it may adversely impact the market for our common units or ARLP common units, and the costs of any such contest would reduce cash available for distribution to ARLP and our unitholders. Recently enacted legislation alters the procedures for assessing and collecting taxes due for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, in a manner that could substantially reduce cash available for distribution to you. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions that we or ARLP take, even positions taken with the advice of counsel. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we or ARLP take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we or ARLP take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units or ARLP’s common units and the prices at which they trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne by ARLP and therefore indirectly by us, as a unitholder and as the owner of the managing general partner of ARLP. Moreover, the costs of any contest between us and the IRS will result in a reduction in cash available for distribution to our unitholders and thus will be borne indirectly by our unitholders. Recently enacted legislation applicable to us for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 alters the procedures for auditing large partnerships and also alters the procedures for assessing and collecting taxes due (including applicable penalties and interest) as a result of an audit. Unless we are eligible to (and choose to) elect to issue revised Schedules K-1 to our partners with respect to an audited and adjusted return, the IRS may assess and collect taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from us in the year in which the audit is completed under the new rules. If we are required to pay taxes, penalties and interest as the result of audit adjustments, cash available for distribution to our unitholders may be substantially reduced. In addition, because payment would be due for the taxable year in which the audit is completed, unitholders during that taxable year would bear the expense of the adjustment even if they were not unitholders during the audited taxable year. Even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us, you will be required to pay taxes on your share of our taxable income. You will be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes, on your share of our taxable income, whether or not you receive cash distributions from us. For example, if the ARLP Partnership sells assets and uses the proceeds to repay existing debt or fund capital expenditures, you may be allocated taxable income and gain resulting from the sale and our cash available for distribution would not increase. Similarly, taking advantage of opportunities to reduce existing debt, such as debt exchanges, debt repurchases, or modifications of existing debt 40 Table of Contents could result “cancellation of indebtedness income” being allocated to our unitholders as taxable income without any increase in our cash available for distribution. You may not receive cash distributions from us equal to your share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability which results from your share of our taxable income. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our units could be more or less than expected. If you sell your units, you will recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and your tax basis in those units. Because distributions in excess of your allocable share of our net taxable income result in a decrease in your tax basis in your units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units you sell will, in effect, become taxable income to you if you sell such units at a price greater than your tax basis therein, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our non-recourse liabilities, if you sell your units, you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale. A substantial portion of the amount realized from the sale of your units, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income to you due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. Thus, you may recognize both ordinary income and capital loss from the sale of your units if the amount realized on a sale of your units is less than your adjusted basis in the units. Net capital loss may only offset capital gains and, in the case of individuals, up to $3,000 of ordinary income per year. In the taxable period in which you sell your units, you may recognize ordinary income from our allocations of income and gain to you prior to the sale and from recapture items that generally cannot be offset by any capital loss recognized upon the sale of units. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons owning our units face unique tax issues that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in our units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans, individual retirement accounts (“IRAs”) and non-U.S. persons, raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Allocations and/or distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our common units. We treat each purchaser of our units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of units, we adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from your sale of units and could have a negative impact on the value of our units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We generally prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The U.S. Department of Treasury recently adopted final Treasury Regulations allowing a similar monthly simplifying convention for taxable years beginning on or after August 3, 2015. However, such regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted for our 2015 taxable year and may not specifically authorize all aspects of our proration method thereafter. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. 41 Table of Contents A unitholder whose units are the subject of a securities loan (e.g., a loan to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units) may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because there is no tax concept of loaning a partnership interest, a unitholder whose units are the subject of a securities loan may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units. In that case, the unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a securities loan are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. ARLP has adopted certain valuation methodologies in determining unitholder’s allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction. The IRS may challenge these methods or the resulting allocations, and such a challenge could adversely affect the value of the common units. In determining the items of income, gain, loss and deduction allocable to our unitholders, ARLP must routinely determine the fair market value of its respective assets. Although ARLP may from time to time consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, ARLP makes many fair market value estimates using a methodology based on the market value of its common units as a means to measure the fair market value of its respective assets. The IRS may challenge these valuation methods and the resulting allocations or character of income, gain, loss and deduction. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount, character, and timing of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. Certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to coal mining and production may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. The Obama administration has indicated a desire to eliminate certain key U.S. federal income tax provisions currently applicable to coal companies, including the percentage depletion allowance with respect to coal properties. No legislation with that effect has been proposed and elimination of those provisions would not impact the ARLP Partnership’s financial statements or results of operations. However, elimination of the provisions could result in unfavorable tax consequences for its unitholders and, as a result, could negatively impact its unit price as well as our unitholders and unit price. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests within a twelve-month period will result in the termination of us as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest will be counted only once. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns for one calendar year and could result in a significant deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a calendar year, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in taxable income for the unitholder’s taxable year that includes our termination. A termination would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but it would result in our being treated as a new partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes following the termination. If we were treated as a new partnership, we would be required to make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we were unable to determine that a termination occurred. The IRS has implemented relief procedures whereby if a publicly traded partnership that has technically terminated, requests and the IRS grants special relief, among other things, the partnership may be permitted to provide only a single Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the two short tax periods included in the year in which the termination occurs. 42 Table of Contents You will likely be subject to state and local taxes and income tax return filing requirements in jurisdictions where you do not live as a result of investing in our units. In addition to U.S. federal income taxes, you will likely be subject to other taxes, such as state and local income taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property now or in the future. You will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, you may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently own assets and conduct business in a variety of states which currently impose a personal income tax on individuals, corporations and other entities. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is your responsibility to file all U.S. federal, state and local tax returns. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 43 Table of Contents 