ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS If any of the following risks materialize, then our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Risks Related to Our Capital Structure and Operations We have a history of net losses and negative cash flow from operations; this will likely continue in the future and our cash may not be adequate to accomplish our objectives. We have reported a net loss in each of the past four years. Our ability to generate revenue is dependent on our ability to successfully and in a timely fashion manufacture products for sale by Smith & Nephew and design, develop, obtain regulatory approval for, manufacture, and commercialize our product candidates. We intend to focus on reducing our operating expenses and capital expenditures over the coming year as we refocus our research and development activities on developing or acquiring new product candidates. We expect to continue to incur net losses and negative cash flow from operations in the near term while we work to implement our cost reduction plans. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our reliance on Smith & Nephew revenues and our product development and cost reduction efforts, we are unable to predict with certainty the extent of any future losses or when or if we will become profitable. Therefore, we may require additional financing in the future, and additional financing may not be available at times, in amounts or on terms acceptable to us or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Westaim controls and may continue to control us and may have conflicts of interest with us or you in the future. Since our initial public offering, Westaim has owned approximately 75% of our outstanding common shares. In addition, certain of our directors also serve as directors of Westaim. For as long as Westaim continues to own a majority of our common shares, Westaim will be able to direct the election of all of the members of our board of directors and control the vote of shareholders on other matters. For as long as Westaim owns a significant percentage of our outstanding common shares, even if less than a majority, Westaim will be able to control or exercise significant influence over our business and affairs, including the strategic direction of our business generally, the incurrence of indebtedness by us, the issuance of any additional common shares or other equity securities, the repurchase of common shares, and the payment of dividends, and will have the power to determine or significantly influence the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including mergers, consolidations, sales or dispositions of assets, reductions in share capital, other business combinations and amendments to our articles. Westaim may take actions with which you or we do not agree, including actions that delay, defer or prevent a change in control of our company or that could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. In addition, Westaim may take other actions that might be favorable to Westaim but not favorable to us or our other shareholders. Also, if Westaim sells all or a portion of its interest in us, it may cause the value of your investment to decrease. The recently approved distribution of share capital may significantly deplete our available cash on hand, which could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to operate our business. As discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Overview & Current Developments,” on February 12, 2009, our shareholders approved a significant reduction in share capital and distribution of cash to our shareholders (the “Distribution”) at a special meeting of shareholders. The Distribution represented approximately 80% of the market value of our shares on the date of approval. While we cannot predict with certainty the long term effects of the Distribution on our company, we expect that our market capitalization 19 will be materially and adversely affected. Specifically, the decrease in share capital and the Distribution may, among other things: • reduce available cash and adversely affect our ability to satisfy liabilities; • make it difficult or impossible to obtain financing, from institutional lenders or otherwise; • require us to reduce the resources devoted towards our research and development initiatives; • adversely affect our ability to engage in strategic transactions; • decrease investor confidence in us; • substantially decrease the market price of our shares; • decrease trading volume in our shares; and • prevent us from regaining and/or maintaining compliance with NASDAQ market capitalization requirements, causing our common shares to be delisted from trading on the NASDAQ Global Market. If we are not able to regain compliance with applicable listing standards, our common shares may be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market. On August 15, 2008, we announced that we received a notice from NASDAQ advising that, for the last 30 consecutive trading days, our common shares had not maintained the minimum market value of publicly held shares (“MVPHS”) of $5 million required for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market under Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(2) (the “MVPHS Rule”). We were advised that we had 90 calendar days, or until November 12, 2008, to regain compliance with the MVPHS Rule, which requires us to maintain the MVPHS at $5 million for a minimum of 10 consecutive trading days. On October 3, 2008, we announced that we received an additional notice from NASDAQ advising us that for 30 consecutive trading days, the bid price for our common shares had closed below $1.00 per share (the “Price Deficiency”). NASDAQ requires a $1.00 minimum price requirement for listing on the NASDAQ Global Market. We were advised that we had until March 31, 2009 to regain compliance, which requires a closing bid price at or above $1.00 per share for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. Prior to the expiration of either cure period, NASDAQ determined to temporarily suspend enforcement of its MVPHS and the $1.00 minimum bid price for all issuers. The suspension was subsequently extended and enforcement is scheduled to resume on April 20, 2009. On January 23, 2009, we received notice from NASDAQ advising us that our shares traded with a closing bid price at or above $1.00 per share for ten consecutive business days. Accordingly, we have cured the Price Deficiency and regained compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. We have not regained compliance with the MVPHS Rule. If NASDAQ determines to enforce the MVPHS Rule and we have not regained compliance, our shares would be subject to delisting from the NASDAQ Global Market. Upon receipt of such a notice, we may choose to submit a transfer application to transfer our common shares to the NASDAQ Capital Market, but no assurance can be made that we will do so. If the application for transfer is made and accepted, we anticipate a change in listings may result in a reduction in some or all of the following, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our investors: • the liquidity of our common shares; • the market price of our common shares; • the number of institutional investors and investors in general that will consider investing in our common shares; • the number of market makers in our common shares; • the availability of information concerning the trading prices and volume of our common shares; • the number of broker-dealers willing to execute trades in our common shares; and • our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations. The Distribution approved on February 12, 2009 may have an adverse effect on the price of our common shares and consequently our market capitalization. We remain subject to the minimum bid price rule, and if the Distribution causes a decrease in our share price such that we experience another Price Deficiency, we would cease to be in compliance. Such a 20 decrease could also adversely affect our ability to regain compliance with the MVPHS Rule if and when NASDAQ determines to resume enforcement. If we are not able to maintain compliance with the listing requirements of NASDAQ, our common shares may be subject to removal from listing on the NASDAQ Global Market. Trading in our common shares after a NASDAQ delisting would likely continue in Canada on the Toronto Stock Exchange and may be conducted in the U.S., if at all, in the over-the-counter markets on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board or the “pink sheets,” in which case trading in our shares could also be subject to additional restrictions. As a consequence of a delisting, our shareholders would find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of, our common shares. In addition, a delisting would make our common shares substantially less attractive as collateral for margin and purpose loans, for investment by financial institutions under their internal policies or state investment laws or as consideration in future capital raising. We are no longer able to rely upon Westaim for financial support, and must now rely on third parties for financing. In the past, we relied on Westaim for the ongoing financial support necessary to operate our business. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Westaim does not currently provide us with financing or financial support, nor does it intend to provide us any financing or financial support in the future. To the extent we must obtain financing to support our cash needs, we will be entirely reliant on third parties for financing. We do not have any lines of credit or other financing arrangements in place with banks or other financial institutions. Therefore, we may require additional financing in the future, and additional financing may not be available at times, in amounts or on terms acceptable to us or at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to our Relationship with Smith & Nephew We are dependent on our relationship with Smith & Nephew, our only customer. Smith & Nephew is currently our only customer and, since May 2001, all of our revenues have been earned under our contracts with Smith & Nephew. See “Business — Smith & Nephew Agreements.” Because all of our products currently being sold in the marketplace are sold by Smith & Nephew, all of our revenue is received from Smith & Nephew and is determined primarily by the level of sales of Acticoattm products achieved by Smith & Nephew. As a result, our revenues generally vary in proportion to increases or decreases in Smith & Nephew’s sales of its Acticoattm products. If Smith & Nephew experiences a significant decrease in sales of its Acticoattm products, this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Smith & Nephew has the authority to unilaterally determine the selling price for Acticoattm products. Smith & Nephew may set a relatively low price for our products, or give discounts or rebates that effectively lower the price of the Acticoattm products, which in either case could reduce our revenues and delay or eliminate receipt of milestone payments. Smith & Nephew is not required to purchase any significant amount of products from us. The Smith & Nephew agreements expire in 2026. However, Smith & Nephew may terminate our agreements earlier if we fail to cure our material breach of the agreements or if we suspend operations, cease to carry on business or file for bankruptcy or take other similar actions. If Smith & Nephew were to terminate our agreements prior to their expiration, we could be subject to the loss of our strategic collaboration and our only current source of revenue. Decisions regarding key aspects of our relationship with Smith & Nephew and the pricing and marketing of Acticoattm products are made by a limited number of key Smith & Nephew executives. The departure or replacement of any of these executives could have a material adverse effect on our relationship with Smith & Nephew. Our future success depends in part on the launch of new Acticoattm products by Smith & Nephew. We have worked in the past and intend to work in the future with Smith & Nephew on the development of such new products; however, the decision to develop or launch a new product, the timing of the development and launch and all related matters are entirely within Smith & Nephew’s discretion. Therefore, there can be no assurance that new products will be developed or launched on a timeline or in a manner favorable to us, or at all. 21 Our industry is highly competitive, and introduction of lower-cost, higher margin products may adversely affect our revenues. Smith & Nephew, which previously was restricted by a non-competition clause, may now introduce other silver-based products that compete with Acticoattm products and could have an adverse effect on the sales of Acticoattm products by Smith & Nephew. We are at risk of Smith & Nephew reducing its marketing effort with respect to Acticoattm products due to any one of a number of factors, including that the other products marketed by Smith & Nephew have better profit margins, or achieve greater acceptance or popularity with health care providers, than the Acticoattm products. Smith & Nephew has introduced three new wound care products which use other forms of silver (Algisite Ag, Allevyn Ag and Biostep Ag). These products may be viewed by the advanced wound care market as alternatives to certain Acticoattm products and may adversely affect Acticoattm product sales and ultimately our operating revenues in the foreseeable future. We are now at risk of the sales of Acticoattm products failing to grow as they have in the past or declining due to the introduction by Smith & Nephew of new silver-based wound care products. Smith & Nephew may also choose to focus its sales and marketing efforts on the new products to the detriment of Acticoattm products. Smith & Nephew’s ability to introduce and to focus sales and marketing efforts on potentially competitive products could affect the growth of, or contribute to a decline in, sales of our products, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to effectively manage our production capacity, our results of operations and our relationship with Smith & Nephew may be adversely affected. We are required to manufacture Acticoattm products according to Smith & Nephew’s demand forecasts. If Smith & Nephew requests future increases in our productivity, we may not be able to supply Smith & Nephew with the quantity or quality of products it requests. Meeting anticipated demand for Acticoattm products estimated by Smith & Nephew may require significant scale-up expenses for new facilities and personnel. Moreover, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully increase our manufacturing capacity to meet anticipated demand or that we will be able to satisfy demand in a cost-effective manner. In 2005, we began expansion of our Fort Saskatchewan, Alberta production facility with an estimated cost of approximately $5.7 million which we completed in the first quarter of 2008. We may not be able to use the additional capacity cost-effectively, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Further, even if our production capacity appropriately meets the demand forecasts provided by Smith & Nephew, such forecasts may materially overstate or understate actual demand for Acticoattm products. An overstatement may result in excess inventories and the potential for loss of product due to shelf-life expiration, and an understatement may result in lost sales due to the inability to meet demand on a timely basis. Either situation would have a negative impact on our results of operations. While we recognize manufacturing cost reimbursement as revenue upon shipment of Acticoattm products to Smith & Nephew, we do not recognize royalty revenues until Smith & Nephew sells these products to its customers, and consequently, increases in Smith & Nephew’s inventory levels, or changes in the relative contribution of manufacturing cost reimbursement and royalty revenues to our total revenues, may affect our gross margins. If we cannot meet Smith & Nephew’s demand forecasts, our agreements may give Smith & Nephew the right to use our technology and facilities to manufacture Acticoattm products. If we suffer a material difficulty supplying Acticoattm products, Smith & Nephew would have the right to manufacture or cause a third party to manufacture Acticoattm products using our technology and facilities. If such a material difficulty were to occur, Smith & Nephew would be given access to certain equipment used in our manufacturing process, which we lease from Smith & Nephew, as well as technology, patent rights and other know-how. In such circumstances we will be subject to a number of risks, including, but not limited to, Smith & Nephew failing to comply with FDA-mandated current good manufacturing practices or similar regulations in other jurisdictions, resulting in mandated production halts or limitations, Smith & Nephew experiencing manufacturing quality or control issues which halt or limit Acticoattm production, and a greater risk that some of our proprietary manufacturing processes and trade secrets will become known to other third parties. If Smith & Nephew were to take possession of our technology and manufacturing equipment and manufacture Acticoattm products on its own or with a third party, even for a limited period of time, it would have a material adverse effect on our business. 22 Our agreements with Smith & Nephew may limit our ability to enter into agreements to transfer certain of our assets or to collaborate with third parties in new product development. We have granted Smith & Nephew a right of first offer regarding our assets and technology used to manufacture and supply Acticoattm products if we desire to sell all or substantially all of these manufacturing assets. We have also granted Smith & Nephew a right of first refusal regarding these manufacturing assets if we receive and wish to accept an offer to purchase them from a competitor of Smith & Nephew’s in the wound care market. The existence of these Smith & Nephew rights could limit our ability to enter into transactions involving the transfer of all or substantially all of these assets. We have also granted Smith & Nephew a right of first offer to seek a license of any new wound care or burn products we may develop using our silver nanocrystalline technology without Smith & Nephew’s involvement. If Smith & Nephew declines the opportunity, then we are free to license or sell these products to others. The existence of this Smith & Nephew right may limit our ability to enter into such new wound care product development collaborations with third parties. Smith & Nephew’s right of first refusal may discourage third parties from working with us on new product development to meet either their needs or the needs of the advanced wound care market. We may be unable to sell our existing products to other parties, even if our agreements with Smith & Nephew expire or terminate. We have agreed to exclusively supply existing Acticoattm products to Smith & Nephew and any new products with our SILCRYSTtm coatings or powder that we develop together with Smith & Nephew for use on non-minor skin wounds and burns on humans. We do not have the right to sell these products to other parties so long as Smith & Nephew has complied with the terms of our agreements. In addition, we do not have the right to sell the products marketed by Smith & Nephew as Acticoattm 3/ Acticoattm Burn and Acticoattm 7 in the U.S. or Canada under any circumstances. If our agreements with Smith & Nephew were terminated or expire, or if we otherwise have the right to sell SILCRYSTtm-coated wound care products to customers other than Smith & Nephew, we may be unable to market, distribute and sell these products or to enter into a marketing, distribution and sales agreement with another distributor. We do not currently have a marketing, distribution or sales organization and we cannot assure you that we would be successful in marketing, distributing or selling our products were we to attempt to do so. In addition, Smith & Nephew owns and uses the trademark Acticoattm to sell products with our SILCRYSTtm coatings and consequently end-users tend to have greater familiarity with the Acticoattm trademark as compared to the SILCRYSTtm trademark. If our agreements with Smith & Nephew were terminated or expire and we attempted to market products with our SILCRYSTtm coatings ourselves or through a distributor, we would not have the benefit of the Acticoattm trademark. We may be unable to achieve the cost savings required to offset the manufacturing cost rebate we agreed to pay Smith & Nephew in 2007, 2008 and 2009. Under the revised agreements with Smith & Nephew entered into in 2007, we agreed to pay Smith & Nephew an annual manufacturing cost rebate of $4.5 million in each of 2007, 2008 and 2009, in anticipation of cost savings we had expected to achieve in such years. We did not completely offset the manufacturing rebate in 2007 or 2008. If we are unable to achieve the cost savings required to substantially or completely offset the manufacturing rebate in 2009, our gross margin, results of operations, and financial condition may be adversely affected. The revised agreements contemplate that starting in 2010, we will determine a new cost recovery structure that takes into account actual cost savings we achieve in the previous three years. The precise terms of the cost recovery structure are subject to negotiation, and we may be unable to negotiate a structure that allows us to achieve any cost savings or that is otherwise favorable to us. General Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our operating results may be adversely impacted by the current worldwide economic conditions. During 2008, general worldwide economic conditions experienced a downturn due to the subprime lending crisis, general credit market crisis, collateral effects on the finance and banking industries, fluctuating energy costs, concerns about inflation, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. These conditions make it difficult for our customer, our vendors, our controlling shareholder and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and they could 23 cause U.S. and foreign businesses to slow spending on our products, which would delay and lengthen sales cycles. We cannot predict the timing or duration of any economic slowdown or the timing or strength of a subsequent economic recovery, worldwide, or in the health care industry. If the economy or markets in which we operate deteriorate, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, the market price of our common shares could decrease if investors have concerns that our business, financial condition and results of operations will be negatively impacted by a worldwide economic downturn. Recent changes in senior management may divert attention and resources from the core activities of our business and may adversely affect our relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies. During 2008 we experienced changes in senior management. Our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, our Vice President, Research & Development, our Vice President, Corporate Development and our Chief Financial Officer all departed our company. Not all of these departing executives were replaced. David B. Holtz, our new Chief Financial Officer, has assumed the role of Interim Chief Executive Officer. Searching for and transitioning to a permanent Chief Executive Officer will take significant time and resources, and the timing of such a search has not yet been decided. We also plan to continue to invest time and resources in building our management team, but we may not replace some senior management positions. Our long-term success will depend on our ability to recruit and retain capable and talented people, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our future operating results and financial condition. In addition, if management changes negatively impact our relationships with customers, suppliers and other constituencies, it could have a material adverse effect on our future operating results and financial condition. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our executive officers and scientific and technical personnel. Due to the specialized knowledge of our personnel with respect to our operations, the loss of service of any of our key personnel could impair our ability to operate our business successfully. We rely substantially upon the services of our current management team. Although these individuals have employment agreements with us, we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain their services. If one of our executive officers was terminated without cause, we would be required to make severance payments to such officer under the terms of his or her employment agreement. See “Executive Compensation — Employment Agreements.” We do not currently maintain key man life insurance policies with respect to any of our employees. Our success also depends in part on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, commercial and administrative personnel. In order to pursue our product development and commercialization strategies, we will need to retain existing personnel or hire new personnel with experience in a number of disciplines, including product development, manufacturing, quality, clinical testing, government regulation, sales and marketing, drug reimbursement and information systems. There is intense competition for personnel in the fields in which we operate. If we are unable to retain existing employees or attract new employees, we may be unable to continue our development and commercialization activities. Our ability to develop and sell future products is critical to our success, and if we fail to do so, our business and financial condition will suffer. We have invested and will continue to invest a significant portion of our time and financial resources in the development of future products for wound care and in our core coating technology capabilities. The development of medical devices is risky because we cannot be sure that products will be as effective as we anticipate or will receive regulatory approval, and the development of new products is extremely costly and typically extends over many years. Even if we receive regulatory approval, other companies may be able to market similar products prior to the launch of our products, during which time their products may gain a significant marketing advantage. We may need to incur substantial capital expenditures in connection with the development of future products. If we fail to successfully develop and sell our future products then we will not earn any return on our investment in these future products, which will adversely affect our results of operations and could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. It would also adversely affect our financial condition. In addition, if we are unable to develop future products, we will remain dependent on Smith & Nephew’s ability to market and sell Acticoattm products successfully. 24 The market for advanced wound care and pharmaceutical products is intensely competitive and many of our competitors have significantly more resources and experience than we do, which may limit our commercial opportunities and revenues. The medical device and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive. There are numerous silver-containing advanced wound care dressings and silver-coated medical devices available from a variety of health care companies. Some of these products have been recently introduced and directly compete with Acticoattm. We may not be able to compete successfully. Major competitors in the advanced wound dressing market in which Smith & Nephew’s Acticoattm products are sold include Convatec, Systagenix Wound Management, Coloplast Corp., 3M Company, Kinetic Concepts Inc., Mölnlycke Health Care Group AB, and Medline Industries, Inc. To the extent that we develop pharmaceutical products to treat gastrointestinal conditions, we will face competition from pharmaceutical companies developing alternative drugs to treat this disease. In addition, we face and will continue to face competition from other major multi-national pharmaceutical companies, medical device companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies, universities and other research institutions. Our competitors may succeed in developing alternative technologies and products that are more effective, easier to use or more economical than those which have been or are being developed by us or that would render our technology and products obsolete and noncompetitive in these fields. Some of our competitors, either alone or together with their collaborators, have substantially greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, and other resources and larger research, development and regulatory staffs than we do. In addition, many of our competitors, either alone or together with their collaborators, have significantly greater experience than we do in discovering, developing, manufacturing and marketing products and may also have greater experience in conducting clinical trials and obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals. As a result, they may be able to devote greater resources to the development, manufacture, marketing or sale of their products, initiate or withstand substantial price competition or development costs, or more readily take advantage of acquisitions or other opportunities. Additional mergers and acquisitions, collaborations or other transactions, or the emergence or growth of other competitors in the medical device and pharmaceutical industries, may result in the competitive landscape changing in favor of competitors. We currently purchase most of our raw materials from single suppliers. If we are unable to obtain raw materials and other products from our suppliers that we depend on for our operations, our ability to deliver our products to market may be impeded. We depend on suppliers for raw materials and other components that are subject to stringent regulatory requirements. We currently purchase most of our raw materials from single suppliers and the loss of any of these suppliers could result in a disruption in our production. If this were to occur, it may be difficult to arrange a replacement supplier, because certain of these materials may only be available from one or a limited number of sources. Our suppliers may encounter problems during manufacturing due to a variety of reasons, including failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, failure to comply with applicable regulations, equipment malfunction and environmental factors. In addition, establishing additional or replacement suppliers for these materials may take a substantial period of time, as certain of these suppliers must be approved by regulatory authorities. If we are unable to secure on a timely basis sufficient quantities of the materials we depend on to manufacture Acticoattm products, if we encounter delays or contractual or other difficulties in our relationships with these suppliers, or if we cannot find replacement suppliers at an acceptable cost, then the manufacture of Acticoattm products may be disrupted, which could increase our costs and have a materially adverse effect on our revenues. If we are not successful in establishing collaborations with prominent health care companies, we may not be able to grow our business. Our long-term success depends upon our ability to identify, develop and commercialize products, potentially including new device coatings and products for dermatological and gastrointestinal applications. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing new products. However, if we do develop new products, we will need to either market and sell such products ourselves or collaborate with one or more other companies that have the required marketing and sales capabilities. New collaborations are a key part of our growth strategy. If we are unable to enter into collaborations respecting new products or market and sell such products ourselves, we will continue to be dependent upon Smith & Nephew for all of our revenues, and we may be limited in our ability to grow our business. The terms and conditions of any future collaboration agreements may be less favorable than our agreements with Smith & Nephew. 25 We may face increased risk of product liability due to the nanocrystalline nature of our technology. If product liability lawsuits are brought against us, they could result in costly litigation and significant liabilities. Materials made in the nanoscale size range can often have chemical or physical properties that are different from those of their larger counterparts. Such differences include altered magnetic properties, altered electrical or optical activity, increased structural integrity, and increased chemical and biological activity. Because of some of their special properties, nanotechnology materials may pose different safety issues than their larger counterparts. Our nanocrystalline technology may present safety risks which are unknown at this time, and which may result in claims against us. Any claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, reduced sales, significant liabilities and diversion of our management’s time and attention. Our use of products in clinical trials, and our or Smith & Nephew’s marketing and sale of products, may expose us to product liability claims and associated adverse publicity. Additionally, the manufacture and sale of medical or pharmaceutical products or devices exposes us to an inherent risk of product liability claims, and the industries in which our products are sold or are likely to be sold have been subject to significant product liability litigation. Any claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, reduced sales, significant liabilities and diversion of our management’s time and attention. In the event a product liability claim is brought against us, we may be required to pay legal and other expenses to defend the claim and, if such a claim is successful, damage awards may not be covered, in whole or in part, by our insurance. We may not have sufficient capital resources to pay a judgment, in which case our creditors could levy against our assets. We may also be obligated to indemnify our collaborators and make payments to other parties with respect to product liability damages and claims. Defending any product liability claims, or indemnifying others against those claims, could require us to expend significant financial and managerial resources. We have agreed to indemnify Smith & Nephew for claims under our agreements, which could result in significant costs to us. We have agreed to indemnify Smith & Nephew in respect of claims resulting from any alleged physical injury or property damage as a result of our acts or omissions, the failure to perform our obligations under the license and development agreement and the supply agreement, our non-compliance with applicable law or regulation, or any breach of our representations under these two agreements for so long as the particular representation survives. Also, we have agreed to indemnify Smith & Nephew in respect of claims resulting from any actual or threatened action by any third party alleging our SILCRYSTtm coatings infringe that third party’s intellectual property rights. Smith & Nephew’s remedy for such an infringement action is limited to withholding damages or royalties it must pay on account of the infringement action from amounts or royalties payable to us under the two agreements, unless we have breached any representation to Smith & Nephew in connection with that infringement. Our insurance may not cover any or all of the costs of product liability claims that may be brought against us or others we may be required to indemnify. Our business exposes us to potential product liability, recalls and other liability risks that are inherent in the testing and manufacturing of medical products, and such potential claims may be asserted against us. A successful liability claim or claims brought against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our insurance coverage may not protect us against any or all of the product liability claims which could be brought against us in the future, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or maintain product liability insurance in the future at a cost or on terms that we deem acceptable, or at all. We may be required to indemnify others for product liability claims, and our insurance policies may not cover all or part of such indemnification. Claims or losses in excess of any product liability insurance coverage that may be obtained by us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If a natural or man-made disaster strikes one or more of our facilities, or facilities upon which we depend, we may be unable to manufacture certain products for a substantial amount of time and our revenue could decline. Our facilities and the facilities of others on which we depend may be affected by natural or man-made disasters, which may include terrorist activities. We depend on our manufacturing facility and research laboratories, as well as our critical information systems, for the continued operation of our business. Our sole manufacturing facility is located in Fort Saskatchewan, Alberta, Canada. This facility and the manufacturing equipment that we use to produce our products, 26 as well as our critical information systems, would be difficult to replace and could require substantial lead time to repair or replace. In the event that our manufacturing facility was affected by a natural or man-made disaster, we may be forced to repair them or construct new manufacturing facilities and may not be able to produce our products in sufficient quantities, or at all, during the period of repair or construction. In that regard, due to the specialized nature of our manufacturing equipment, we anticipate that it would take a substantial period of time to construct new manufacturing facilities. Moreover, we would need to secure regulatory approval to manufacture our products at a new facility. Accordingly, construction of new facilities and regulatory approvals could take years to complete and could result in significant costs to us. We are listed on both the Toronto Stock Exchange and the NASDAQ Global Market, and could incur significant compliance expenses as a result. We currently list our common shares on the NASDAQ Global Market and the Toronto Stock Exchange; therefore, we devote substantial efforts and incur substantial costs in complying with the reporting obligations and internal controls required of a public company in the U.S. and Canada. If rules and regulations applicable to us change, or our status or treatment under these rules and regulations changes, we may incur significant additional compliance costs, including legal, accounting, insurance and certain other expenses, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. We may incur losses associated with currency fluctuations and may not be able to effectively hedge our exposure. The Smith & Nephew sales revenues on which our royalty and milestone revenues are determined are reported to us in U.S. dollars. Sales by Smith & Nephew in other currencies will result in fluctuations in its revenue as reported in U.S. dollars. Our accounts receivable from Smith & Nephew are denominated in U.S. dollars. The functional currency that we use for accounting purposes is the Canadian dollar and, as a result, accounts receivable recorded in Canadian dollars are exposed to changes in the exchange rate between the Canadian and U.S. dollars until these receivables are collected. We do not maintain derivative instruments to mitigate our exposure to fluctuations in exchange rates. Failure to comply with workplace safety legislation could adversely affect our financial condition. If we fail to comply with workplace safety legislation applicable to our employees, we may be subject to sanctions, fines and penalties including but not limited to closure of our manufacturing facility, as well as litigation risks, all of which would adversely affect our financial condition. Risks Related to Regulatory Matters Our industry is heavily regulated, and if existing regulatory approvals for our products are not maintained, or regulatory approvals for any new products are delayed or denied, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Current Acticoattm products are subject to extensive regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, other federal authorities and certain state, provincial, territorial and foreign regulatory authorities. If we, Smith & Nephew or any companies with which we may collaborate in the future obtain regulatory approval for any future products, we, Smith & Nephew and any such collaborators will also be subject to extensive regulation by the FDA, other federal authorities and certain state, provincial, territorial and foreign regulatory authorities. These regulations will impact and do impact in the case of Acticoattm products many aspects of our operations, including manufacturing, record keeping, quality control, adverse event reporting, storage, labeling, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution, export and personnel. The FDA and state, provincial, territorial and foreign agencies may conduct periodic inspections to assess compliance with these requirements. We, together with Smith & Nephew and any companies with which we may collaborate in the future, will be required to conduct post-marketing surveillance of the products. We also may be required to conduct post-marketing studies and safety monitoring. Any failure by us, Smith & Nephew or any companies with which we may collaborate in the future to comply with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements, or the discovery of previously unknown problems, may result in problems including: • delays in commercialization; • refusal by the FDA or other regulatory agencies to review pending applications or supplements to approved applications; • warning letters; • product recalls or seizures; 27 • suspension of manufacturing; • withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications; • fines and other civil penalties; • injunctions, suspensions or revocations of marketing licenses; • refusals to permit products to be imported to or exported from the U.S. and other countries; and • civil litigation and criminal prosecutions. See “Business — Government Regulation — United States — Manufacturing cGMP Requirements.” Smith & Nephew is required to maintain regulatory approvals to sell the Acticoattm products that it currently sells and to obtain additional regulatory approvals for those current products to sell them in any new markets. We cannot assure you that Smith & Nephew will be able to maintain existing regulatory approvals for the Acticoattm products it now sells or obtain new regulatory approvals, or that the conditions imposed by regulators will not adversely affect Smith & Nephew’s ability to market those products. Regulatory requirements imposed on products could limit Smith & Nephew’s ability to commercialize its product and our ability to test, manufacture and commercialize our products. If Smith & Nephew does not fully comply with the regulatory requirements to maintain or achieve these approvals, then we may be subject to risks which could adversely affect our results of operations and prospects, including but not limited to actions by the FDA or other regulatory authorities which may have the effect of restricting or preventing our ability to market and sell our products, or to have those products marketed or sold. Any products we may develop in the future will also require regulatory approval before we or any collaborator are allowed to market and sell them. We expect the regulatory approval process to be lengthy and expensive and we will have the burden of proving that our products are safe and effective. Satisfying regulatory requirements may cause our products to become prohibitively expensive. Preclinical studies and clinical trials are expensive, can take many years and have uncertain outcomes. In addition, the regulatory approval procedures vary among countries and additional testing may be required in some jurisdictions. It usually takes at least several years to complete the requisite pre-clinical studies and clinical trials, and a product candidate may fail at any stage of testing. Difficulties and risks associated with pre-clinical studies and clinical trials may result in failure to receive regulatory approval or inability to commercialize products for new indications. Clinical trials may be suspended or terminated at any time due to the actions of the FDA, other regulatory authorities, our collaborators, or due to our own actions. Delays or failures in obtaining regulatory approvals may: • delay or prevent the commercialization of any product that we develop for new indications or any product within an already approved indication for which the submission of additional clinical trial data is required; • in the case of delays, materially and adversely increase the cost of completing the development of such product and obtaining regulatory approval to market it; • diminish any competitive advantages; and • adversely affect our ability to attract new collaborators. If government and third-party payors fail to provide coverage and adequate reimbursement rates for Acticoattm products or our future products, our revenues and potential for profitability will be reduced. Our revenues currently depend in part and will continue to depend upon the reimbursement rates established by third-party payors, including government health administration authorities, managed-care providers, public health insurers, private health insurers and other organizations. These third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price, and examining the cost-effectiveness, of medical products and services. Cost control initiatives could decrease the established reimbursement rates that we receive for any products in the future, which would limit our revenues. Legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceutical products or medical devices, including the Acticoattm products, may change at any time, which could limit or eliminate reimbursement rates for Acticoattm or other products. If physicians, hospitals and other users of Acticoattm products or any products we develop in the future fail to obtain sufficient reimbursement from healthcare payors for these products, or if adverse changes occur in governmental and private third-party payors’ policies toward reimbursement for these products, it could negatively affect the demand for these products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status, if any, of newly approved pharmaceutical or medical device products, and we have no assurance that adequate or any third-party coverage will be provided for any new products introduced by us. If any new products we 28 may develop do not receive adequate coverage and reimbursement, the market acceptance of these products could be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may need to conduct post-marketing clinical trials in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of products. Such studies may require us to commit a significant amount of management time and financial and other resources. Future products may not be reimbursed or covered by any of these third-party payors for our targeted indications. In many foreign markets, particularly countries in the European Union and Canada, the pricing of medical products is subject to governmental control. In these countries, obtaining pricing approval from governmental authorities can take many months and sometimes years to obtain. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of a product to other available therapies. If reimbursement of such products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, then our revenues could be reduced. In the U.S., there may be future federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental pricing controls, which could adversely affect our revenues. Our business involves the use, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials and may subject us to environmental liability, and any future environmental liability could seriously harm our financial condition. We do not maintain insurance covering these risks. Our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the use, handling, storage and disposal of various hazardous materials commonly used in conducting these activities in the pharmaceutical industry, such as alcohols and acids. These materials are considered hazardous because they may be toxic, corrosive or flammable under certain conditions. We are subject to federal, state, provincial, local and foreign laws, regulations and policies governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of these materials. Some of our facilities are located in areas where third parties manufacture chemicals and deal with similar hazardous materials that may cause environmental contamination. If contamination occurs in or near our facilities, whether as a result of our action or that of a third party, our ability to conduct our manufacturing activities could be adversely affected. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from the use, manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of materials we use. In the event of an accident or contamination, we could be liable for damages or costs of clean-up or remediation or be penalized with fines. This liability could be substantial and exceed our resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We do not maintain insurance for environmental liabilities. We may have to incur significant costs to comply with future environmental laws and regulations. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that costs and expenses relating to environmental matters or our use of hazardous materials will not have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Intellectual Property The protection of our intellectual property rights is critical to our success and any failure on our part to adequately protect those rights would materially adversely affect our business. Patents. Our commercial success will depend in part on the patent rights we own or may license in the future. Our success depends on maintaining these patent rights against third-party challenges to their validity, scope or enforceability. In general, our patent position is subject to the risk that a governmental agency, such as the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or PTO, or the courts may deny, narrow or invalidate patent claims. We may not be successful in securing or maintaining proprietary or patent protection for our products and candidates, and any protection that we do secure may be challenged and possibly lost. Our competitors may develop products similar to ours using compositions, methods and technologies that are beyond the scope of our intellectual property rights. In addition, if we are unable to maintain our proprietary rights, other companies may be able to copy our products or manufacturing processes. For example, although we believe that we have valid patent protection for our current products until at least 2014, it is possible that, prior to the expiration of our patents, competitors will attempt to introduce products similar to ours outside of the scope of our patents. Intellectual property protection is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and technical questions. Our patents and any patent that we may license in the future may be challenged by our competitors or other third parties, including generic drug companies. Our patents may be narrowed, invalidated, or circumvented, resulting in a failure to provide us with any market exclusivity or competitive advantage even after our investment of significant amounts of money. Our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or 29 products, or provide us with any competitive advantage. We also may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights against third-party infringement, which may be difficult to detect. The PTO, the PTO’s counterparts in other nations and the courts in the U.S. and elsewhere have not established a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed related to pharmaceutical patents. The allowance of broader claims may increase the incidence and cost of patent interference proceedings and the risk of infringement litigation. On the other hand, the allowance of narrower claims may limit the value of our proprietary rights. Failure to obtain or maintain patent or trade secret protection, for any reason, could adversely affect our competitive position in the marketplace. Additionally, the laws of some countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. and Canada. For example, enforcing patents in countries such as China and Japan may be difficult due to the structures of their patent systems. In addition, litigation in these or other countries may not be cost effective when balanced against the benefit that may be obtained. Further, there may be substantial global markets in which we do not have or may not be able to secure patent protection. There are also countries where our patents may not provide us with a financial or commercial benefit due to that country’s lax enforcement of patent rights. Specifically, if we lose our current patent rights in a particular country and in respect of a particular SILCRYSTtm coated product and if someone else sells a competing product in that country that would have infringed on our patent rights had they been in effect, then we are obligated to negotiate in good faith with Smith & Nephew for a reduction of the royalty rate applicable to sales of the particular product in that country for so long as the competing product is being sold and we are without patent protection. If those negotiations do not result in any agreement, the matter would be referred to binding arbitration, although there is a limit on the maximum royalty reduction permitted. Any reduction in our royalties could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Trade Secrets and Proprietary Know-how. We also rely upon trade secrets and unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation in developing our products, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. We seek to protect this intellectual property, in part, by generally requiring our employees, consultants and current and prospective business partners to enter into confidentiality agreements. We may lack the financial or other resources to successfully monitor and detect, or to enforce our rights in respect of, infringements of our rights or breaches of these confidentiality agreements. In the case of any such undetected or unchallenged infringements or breaches, these confidentiality agreements may not provide us with meaningful protection of our trade secrets and unpatented proprietary know-how or adequate remedies. In addition, others may independently develop technology that is similar or equivalent to our trade secrets or know-how. If any of our trade secrets, unpatented know-how or other confidential and proprietary information is divulged to third parties, including our competitors, our competitive position in the marketplace could be harmed and our ability to successfully sell products in our target markets could be severely compromised. Trademarks. We have received trademark registrations for the words NUCRYSTtm and SILCRYSTtm as well as associated designs, in many jurisdictions that we consider major markets. We have pending trademark applications in other major market jurisdictions, including the U.S. If we do not adequately protect our rights in our various trademarks from infringement, any goodwill that has been developed in those marks could be lost or impaired. If the marks we use are found to infringe upon the trademark or service mark of another company, we could be forced to stop using those marks and, as a result, we could lose any goodwill which has been developed in those marks and could be liable for damages caused by any such infringement. Enforcement. We may deem it necessary or advisable to commence litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. Others may claim that we have infringed upon their intellectual property rights and commence litigation against us. We believe that we will be subject to an increasing number of infringement claims to the extent we produce more products. Our commercial success depends in part on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. Infringement proceedings in the pharmaceutical industry are lengthy, costly and time-consuming and their outcome is uncertain. We may also be forced to engage in litigation to enforce any patents issued or licensed to us, or to determine the scope and validity of third party proprietary rights. Moreover, if our competitors prepare and file patent applications in the U.S. to claim technology that is also claimed by us, we may be forced to participate in interference proceedings declared by the PTO to determine priority of invention. In addition, in Europe, any patents issued to us may be challenged by third parties in opposition proceedings. Litigation and participation in such proceedings could result in substantial costs and diversion 30 of our efforts, even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us. Litigation could also subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties or require us to cease using certain technology. If we become involved in any a dispute regarding our intellectual property rights, including litigation, interference, opposition or other administrative proceedings, regardless of whether we prevail, we will have to devote significant time, incur substantial expense, and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel toward resolving the dispute, which could harm our business. Intellectual property litigation in the pharmaceutical industry is common, and we expect this to continue. If a dispute is resolved not in our favor, we could lose our proprietary position and be restricted or prevented from developing, manufacturing and selling the affected products, incur significant damage awards, including punitive damages, or be required to seek third-party licenses that may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. We may also be subject to injunctive or other equitable relief. In addition, we may lack the resources, whether financial or otherwise, to monitor, prosecute and enforce our intellectual property rights. Moreover, our collaborators may choose not to enforce or maintain their intellectual property rights, and we may be forced to incur substantial additional costs to maintain or enforce such rights or may incur additional risks should we choose not to maintain or enforce such rights. The ability to market Acticoattm products and any other products we develop is subject to the intellectual property rights of third parties. Acticoattm products, and the product candidates we currently are developing and those we may develop in the future, may infringe patent and other rights of third parties. In addition, our competitors, many of which have substantially greater resources than us and have made significant investments in competing technologies or products, may seek to apply for and obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use and sell products either in North America or international markets. Even if we are successful in defending a claim of infringement, engaging in costly and time-consuming litigation could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. Many of our employees were previously employed at universities or other medical device or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying money damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize product candidates, which could harm our business. Risks Related to Our Common Shares There has been limited trading in our common shares and, as a result, the market price of our common shares may be highly volatile. There has been low trading volume in our common shares since our initial public offering in December 2005. We cannot predict the extent to which an active trading market will develop or how liquid any market that may develop might become. An active trading market for our common shares may never develop or may not be sustained, which could adversely affect your ability to sell your shares and the market price of your shares. The market price of our common shares is volatile. Since our public offering on December 22, 2005 and through February 11, 2008, our common shares have traded on the NASDAQ Global Market between $0.46 and $16.88 per share. While our common shares are also traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange, the majority of trading in our common shares has taken place on the NASDAQ Global Market. The stock market in general, and the market for stocks of medical devices and pharmaceutical companies in particular, have experienced high volatility. As a result, the market price of our common shares is likely to continue to be volatile, and investors in our common shares may experience a decrease, which could be substantial, in the value of their shares, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. The 31 market price of our common shares could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including those listed elsewhere in this Item 1A and others such as: • variations in our operating performance and the performance of our competitors or companies that are perceived to be similar to us; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results; • results of pre-clinical and clinical trials by us and our competitors; • changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • publication of research reports by securities analysts about us or our competitors or our industry; • our failure or the failure of our competitors to meet analysts’ projections or guidance that we or our competitors may give to the market; • strategic decisions by us, our controlling shareholder, or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic collaborations or investments or changes in business strategy; • the passage of legislation or other regulatory developments affecting us or our industry; • speculation in the media or investment community; • changes in accounting principles; • litigation; and • changes in general market and economic conditions. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources, and could require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments or to settle litigation. Future sales of currently restricted shares could cause the market price of our common shares to decrease significantly, even if our business is doing well. Prior to the issuance of our common shares in our initial public offering, Westaim held 100% of our outstanding common shares and currently holds approximately 75% of our outstanding common shares. Pursuant to the terms of a registration rights agreement between Westaim and us, Westaim may require us, on no more than two occasions, to use reasonable best efforts to register all or a portion of its registrable securities for resale in the public markets in the U.S. and to file a prospectus qualifying the common shares it owns for resale in Canada, so long as the anticipated aggregate proceeds from the sale of such registrable securities, net of underwriting discounts and expenses would exceed $5.0 million and subject to our right to defer filing under certain circumstances. Sales of a significant number of our common shares, or the perception that these sales could occur, could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common shares and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. The amount of our net operating loss carryovers may be limited. Our tax pools are subject to review and potential disallowance, in whole or in part, by the Canada Revenue Agency (“CRA”) in Canada and the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) in the United States upon audit of our federal income tax returns, and we cannot predict the results of any such review. In 2005, the CRA commenced an examination of our Canadian income tax returns for 2001 and 2002, and in December 2007, we received correspondence from the CRA proposing certain transfer pricing adjustments with respect to income allocations between our Canadian and U.S. entities for those years. In the third quarter of 2008, we received a report from the CRA which provided additional information with respect to the proposed adjustments. We have been working with the CRA to resolve the audit matters under review and have made a further submission of information to the CRA in this regard. Resolution of the audit matters under review may apply to taxation years beyond 2002. Any reassessments to be issued by the CRA, on an aggregate basis, could result in a material effect on our consolidated financial statements, although at this time, the potential impact cannot be reasonably estimated. We have provided notification to the IRS of our intention to seek competent authority assistance with respect to the 2001 and 2002 taxation years. The amount of net operating loss carryovers, or NOLs, which may be used by us for U.S. federal income tax purposes in any future year could be limited by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. In general, Section 382 would limit our ability to use NOLs for U.S. federal income tax purposes in the event of certain changes in 32 ownership of our company, including as a result of sales of our common shares by Westaim and future offerings of common shares by us or as a result of certain changes in ownership of Westaim including as a result of future offerings of common shares of Westaim. If such limitations were triggered as a result of future shifts in ownership of us or Westaim, the use of our NOLs for U.S. federal income tax purposes would be limited. Any limitation of our use of NOLs could (depending on the extent of such limitation and the amount of NOLs previously used) result in us retaining less cash after payment of U.S. federal income taxes during any year in which we have taxable income (rather than losses) than we would be entitled to retain if such NOLs were available as an offset against such income for U.S. federal income tax reporting purposes. We have not demonstrated an ability to produce positive tax income consistently on an annual basis. Accordingly, we cannot predict when or if we will generate taxable income and whether and to what extent we will be able to use our NOLs to offset any such taxable income. If we are classified as a passive foreign investment company, it could have adverse tax consequences to investors. Special rules apply to certain U.S. holders that own shares in a non-U.S. corporation that is classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC. We do not believe that we will be a PFIC for the current taxable year and, based on our current business plan, we do not expect to be a PFIC in the foreseeable future. Since the determination as to whether or not a corporation is a PFIC is highly factual, however, there can be no assurance that we will not become a PFIC in future taxable years. The PFIC rules are extremely complex and could, if they apply, have significant adverse effects on the taxation of dividends received and gains realized by a U.S. holder of our common shares. Accordingly, prospective U.S. holders are strongly urged to consult their tax advisers concerning the potential application of the PFIC rules to their particular circumstances. As a “foreign private issuer” under the U.S. securities laws, we are subject to different laws and rules than a domestic U.S. issuer, which may limit the information publicly available to our shareholders. As a foreign private issuer we are not required to comply with certain of the disclosure requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or Exchange Act, (such as proxy statements) and therefore there may be less publicly available information about us than if we were a U.S. domestic issuer. In addition, our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and “short-swing” profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules thereunder. All of our directors, officers and principal shareholders will be subject to the insider reporting rules under Canadian securities legislation and are required to file reports in electronic format through the System for Electronic Disclosure by Insiders, or SEDI, disclosing changes in beneficial ownership, or control or direction over, our common shares and other securities. Our shareholders can access such reports at www.sedi.ca. Because we are not subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act, our shareholders must use SEDI, and not the SEC’s filing system, to track ownership of our common shares by insiders. We may choose to rely on exemptions under the NASDAQ rules for controlled companies and foreign private issuers, which may affect the amount and type of information available to investors. NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4350(c)(5) allows controlled companies to adhere to different NASDAQ listing requirements with respect to independent directors and certain corporate governance requirements. As a controlled company, we are eligible for, but have not opted into, this exemption. In addition, as a foreign private issuer, we are eligible to follow home country practice where allowed under Canadian law in lieu of compliance with certain NASDAQ rules. We may elect to do this on a case-by-case basis, but to date have not so elected. Should we elect to be treated as a controlled company or to follow home country practice, it is likely that we would be subject to different and potentially less stringent disclosure or governance requirements, which may affect the amount and type of information available to investors, investor confidence and thus the trading volume and the market price of our common shares. You may be unable to enforce actions against us or certain of our directors and officers under U.S. federal securities laws. We are a corporation organized under the laws of Alberta, Canada. One half of our directors and certain of our officers reside outside of the U.S. Service of process upon such persons may be difficult or impossible to effect within the U.S. Furthermore, because a substantial portion of our assets, and substantially all of the assets of our non-U.S. directors and officers and the Canadian experts named herein, are located outside of the U.S., any judgment obtained in the U.S., including a judgment based upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws, against us or any of such persons may not be collectible within the U.S. In addition, there is doubt as to the applicability of the civil liability 33 provisions of U.S. federal securities law to original actions instituted in Canada. It may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to assert U.S. securities laws claims in original actions instituted in Canada. Therefore, it may not be possible to enforce those actions against us or certain of our directors and officers. We have outstanding share options that have the potential to dilute shareholder value and cause the price of our common shares to decline. In the past, we have offered, and we expect to continue to offer, share options, or other forms of share-based compensation to our directors, officers and employees. If some or all of these options are exercised and such shares are sold into the public market, the market price of our common shares may decline. Our articles and certain Canadian laws could delay or deter a change of control. Our authorized preferred shares are available for issuance from time to time at the discretion of our board of directors, without shareholder approval. Our board of directors may amend our articles without shareholder approval to fix the number of preferred shares in, and determine the designation of the shares of, each series of preferred shares and may create, define and attach voting, dividend and other rights and restrictions to the shares of each series, subject to the rights and restrictions attached to our preferred shares as a class. The economic, voting and other rights attaching to a particular series of our preferred shares may be superior to those of our common shares and may dilute or otherwise adversely affect the voting and economic interests of the holders of our common shares. Limitations on the ability to acquire and hold our common shares may be imposed by the Competition Act (Canada). This legislation permits the Commissioner of Competition of Canada, or Commissioner, to review any acquisition of a significant interest in us. This legislation grants the Commissioner jurisdiction, for up to three years, to seek a remedial order, including an order to prohibit the acquisition, from the Canadian Competition Tribunal, which order may be granted where the Competition Tribunal finds that the acquisition substantially prevents or lessens, or is likely to prevent or lessen, competition in any market in Canada. The Investment Canada Act (Canada), or Investment Act, requires each “non-Canadian,” as determined in the Investment Act, who commences a new business activity in Canada or acquires control of an existing Canadian business, where the establishment or acquisition of control is not a reviewable transaction by Canadian authorities under the Investment Act, to file a notification in prescribed form. Subject to certain exceptions, a transaction that is reviewable under the Investment Act may not be implemented until an application for review has been filed and the responsible Minister of the federal cabinet has determined that the investment is likely to be of “net benefit to Canada” taking into account the factors, where relevant, set out in the Investment Act. An investment in our common shares by a non-Canadian would be reviewable under the Investment Act if it were an investment to acquire control of us and the value of our assets was C$5.0 million or more as determined pursuant to the Investment Act. Any of the foregoing may make it more difficult for shareholders to replace our management, and could prevent or delay a change of control of our company and deprive or limit strategic opportunities for our shareholders to sell their shares. 