Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors That May Affect Our Future Results or the Market Price of Our Stock We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves numerous uncertainties and risks. Investors evaluating our company and its business should carefully consider the factors described below and all other information contained in this report on Form 10-K. This section should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto and Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in this report on Form 10-K. Any of the following factors could materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Additional factors and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial could also harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We may make forward-looking statements from time to time, both written and oral. We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements based on circumstances or events which occur in the future. The actual results may differ materially from those projected in any such forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those set forth below and elsewhere in this report on Form 10-K. The enterprise software business is highly competitive. We compete with Oracle Corporation, SAP AG, Microsoft Corporation and other larger software companies that have advantages over us due to their larger customer bases, greater name recognition, long operating and product development history, greater international presence and substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources. If customers or prospects want to reduce the number of their software vendors, they may elect to purchase competing products from Oracle, SAP or Microsoft since those larger vendors offer a wider range of products. Furthermore, Oracle and Microsoft are capable of bundling their software with their database applications, which underlie a significant portion of our installed applications. We also compete with a variety of more specialized software and services vendors, including: · single-industry software vendors; · human resource management software vendors; 16 · financial management software vendors; · manufacturing software vendors; · merchandising software vendors; · services automation software vendors; · software integrators and outsourced services providers; and · Internet (on demand) software vendors. Some competitors are increasingly aggressive with their pricing, payment terms and/or issuance of contractual warranties, implementation terms or guarantees. Competitors may entice our customers to switch software vendors by offering those customers free products or services. We may be unable to continue to compete successfully with new and existing competitors without lowering prices or offering other favorable terms to customers. We expect competition to persist and intensify, which could negatively impact our operating results and market share. Our revenues, and in particular our software license revenue, vary each quarter and are difficult to predict. Revenues from license fees in any quarter depend substantially upon our licensing activity with new and existing customers, and our ability to recognize revenues in that quarter under our revenue recognition policies. If we do not continue to develop or acquire new products, licensing activity with existing customers may decline. Licensing activity for our products drives maintenance and services revenues because we sell maintenance and services for only our products. A decrease in licensing activity will typically lead to a decrease in services revenue in the same or subsequent quarters. If we do not have sufficient licensing activity with new customers each year, our maintenance revenue for the following year will decline because new customers are needed to offset the percentage of existing customers who scale back their businesses, reduce licenses and maintenance contracts, are acquired, or otherwise chose not to renew annual maintenance. Our sales force and marketing team must continue to generate sales leads among existing customers and prospective customers. When we “qualify” a lead, that lead becomes part of our sales “pipeline.” If our pipeline does not continue to grow in our different markets and geographies, our revenues will eventually decline. The rate at which we convert our pipeline into actual sales can vary greatly from quarter to quarter for the following reasons: · The period between initial customer contact and a purchase by a customer may vary and can be more than one year. During the sales cycle, prospective customers may decide not to purchase or may scale down purchases because of competing offers, budgetary constraints or changes in the prospect’s management, strategy, business or industry. · A substantial number of our existing and prospective customers make their purchase decision within the last few weeks or days of each quarter. A delay or deferral in a small number of large new software license transactions could cause our quarterly license revenue to fall significantly short of our predictions. · Prospective customers may decline or defer the purchase of new products if we do not have sufficient customer references for those products. · New products or technologies, software industry mergers and other software industry news may create uncertainty and cause customers and prospective customers to cancel, postpone or reduce capital spending for our products. We have observed this uncertainty with some of Intentia’s customers who are concerned that we might not continue to develop and support Intentia’s M3 products (despite our continued commitment to those products). 17 Because a substantial portion of our software license revenue contracts are completed in the latter part of a quarter, and our cost structure is largely fixed in the short term, unexpected revenue shortfalls and deferrals have a disproportionately negative impact on our profitability. Economic, political and market conditions, can adversely affect our revenue growth and operating results. Our revenue and profitability depend on the overall demand for enterprise software and related maintenance and services, particularly in the industries and geographies in which we sell our products and services. Demand for enterprise software and demand for our solutions are affected by general economic conditions, competition, product acceptance and technology lifecycles. Regional and global changes in the economy, governmental budget deficits and political instability in certain geographic areas have resulted in businesses, government agencies and educational institutions reducing their spending for technology projects generally and delaying or reconsidering potential purchases of our products and related services. The uncertainty posed by the long-term effects of the war in the Middle East, terrorist activities, potential pandemics, natural disasters and related uncertainties and risks and other geopolitical issues may impact the purchasing decisions of current or potential customers. Because of these factors, we believe the level of demand for our products and services, and projections of future revenue and operating results, will continue to be difficult to predict. We are required to delay revenue recognition into future periods for portions of our license fee activity. Our entire worldwide business is subject to United States generally accepted accounting principles, commonly referred to as “U.S. GAAP.” Under those rules, we are required to defer revenue recognition for license fees in situations that include the following: · the customer agreement includes products that are under development or has other undelivered elements; · the customer agreement includes essential services, including significant modifications, customization or complex interfaces, (this is more prevalent with our M3 products); · the customer agreement includes acceptance criteria; · the customer agreement includes extended or contingent payment terms or fees; · a third-party vendor, whose technology is incorporated into our products, delays delivery of its product to the customer; · the customer agreement includes a fixed-fee service arrangement for which we do not have vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value; or · we are not able to establish historical pricing and maintenance renewal rates to meet the VSOE requirements of these accounting rules. We expect that we will continue to defer portions of our license fee activity because of these factors, with deferrals more likely for (a) our M3 products because of product customization (often required due to the nature of the manufacturing and distribution industries) that is frequently included with new sales, (b) sales to governmental entities because those often include fixed fee arrangements for which we do not have VSOE of fair value and (c) sales for large license fee contracts because it is more difficult to use standard contract terms. The amount of license fees deferred may be significant and will vary each quarter, depending on the mix of products sold in each market and geography, and the actual contract terms. 18 The risks to our business vary for each of our markets and geographies, and we might not achieve the operational efficiencies and synergies expected from the Intentia merger. Since the closing of our merger with Intentia in April 2006, we have been integrating our two companies and executing on our business plan. Before the merger, Lawson focused primarily on targeted service industries in North America, with our S3 products, and Intentia focused primarily on manufacturing and distribution industries in Europe, with its M3 products. Our integration plan includes certain facility consolidations, operational process improvements in our consulting organization, optimization of our sales and marketing organizations, integration of research and development, and general employee redundancies. The following factors create execution risks for our business plan in our respective markets and geographies: · Maintenance and services revenue and margins. Legacy Lawson had better maintenance revenue and margins, whereas Intentia had better professional services revenue and margins, in part due to its lower number of non-billable services consultants. We need to improve the overall maintenance and consulting services margin of our combined company to achieve our overall profitability goals. If new customer activity with new maintenance and services sales are below expectations our maintenance and services margins may decline because new customers are needed to offset attrition of existing customers who do not renew maintenance or who do not purchase additional services. · Revenue from cross sales. Revenue growth through the cross sale of Lawson S3 and Intentia M3 products to our respective customers and new customers could be a challenge. Achieving our cross sale revenue goals requires an increase in the number of sales personnel trained to sell our broader set of products. This includes building a sales force in the Americas to allow increased focus on manufacturing and wholesale distribution customer prospects. It also includes training sales personnel from the Intentia on selling Lawson S3 products and training sales personnel from the legacy Lawson organization on selling Intentia M3 products. Currently, our S3 business intelligence products (primarily in English) and M3 enterprise asset management products are available for cross sale. We plan to expand business intelligence products into other languages and expand other products for cross sale, including, for example our human capital management S3 products (excluding payroll). However, most of these product development projects could take more than a year to complete. · Sales opportunity pipeline to support revenue growth. We must continually grow our sales pipeline to be able to achieve our revenue goals. Experienced, trained personnel are an important source of sales leads in conjunction with company marketing. As a result, we need to continue hiring sales people to increase our pipeline and offset attrition. · Expanded product offerings. Meaningful pipeline growth also requires that we continue to expand our product offerings through product development and acquisitions. For example, Lawson has been successful in penetrating a substantial portion of the healthcare market in the United States. However, because that market is becoming saturated we must continue to expand our healthcare product offerings in that market and grow other markets for our products, or our sales prospects could eventually decline. · EMEA pipeline. Our sales pipeline for S3 products in the United States has been growing and must continue to grow for us to achieve our S3 revenue goals. The sales pipeline for M3 products in EMEA has not increased to the level required to achieve our M3 revenue goals. This requires a renewed focus on existing opportunities in EMEA as well as new opportunities for cross sales of S3 products in EMEA. If we do not increase our EMEA pipeline and in particular our pipeline for new customers, we will be challenged to achieve our long term revenue and profitability goals. · Asia Pacific Region (APAC) profitability. Intentia’s revenues in the APAC region are not high enough to support the current cost structure. We are exploring ways to increase APAC sales 19 pipeline and revenues and better align costs in the APAC region, including expanded use of an indirect sales channel through business partners. Use of an indirect sales channel is typically at a lower margin and can take several quarters to implement. We currently plan to continue serving our existing customers in the APAC region, but changes in our cost structure and delivery methods could create revenue risks. If we decide to take additional restructuring measures to address these risks, we may be required to incur financial charges in the period when we make that decision on future periods, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations for the appropriate period. We may not retain or attract customers if we do not develop new products and enhance our current products in response to technological changes and competing products. The enterprise software market is faced with rapid technological change, evolving standards in computer hardware, software development and communications infrastructure, and changing needs of customers. Building new products require significant development investment. A substantial portion of our research and development resources are devoted to product upgrades that address new technology support, regulatory and maintenance requirements putting constraints on our resources available for new product development. We also face uncertainty when we develop or acquire new products because there is no assurance that a sufficient market will develop for those products. We have begun producing certain products using a new business application platform we are developing known as “Landmark.” The goals of Landmark are to simplify software development and improve product quality. Because we are in the early stages of utilizing Landmark, it is too early to confirm whether we will successfully achieve these goals. Business disruptions may interfere with our ability to conduct business. Our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected in the event of a security breach, major fire, earthquake, war, terrorist attack, pandemic or other catastrophic event. Travel restrictions or impaired access or significant damage to our data center due to such an event could cause a disruption of business, which could adversely impact results of operations and financial conditions. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, specifically software developers, service consultants and sales personnel, we will be unable to develop new products and increase our revenue. We rely on the continued service of our senior management, software developers, service consultants, sales personnel, finance personnel and other key employees. In the software industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly skilled business, product development, technical and other personnel. The failure to attract, train, retain and effectively manage employees could negatively impact our development and sales efforts and cause a degradation of our customer service. In particular, the loss of sales or consulting personnel could lead to lost revenue opportunities because it can take several quarters to hire and train replacement sales or consulting personnel. Deterioration in our relationship with resellers, systems integrators and other third parties that market and sell our products could reduce our revenues. Currently, a small portion of our new license sales is generated by partners. Our revenue growth will depend, in part, on adding new partners to expand our sales channels, as well as leveraging our relationships with existing partners. If our relationships with these resellers, system integrators and strategic and technology partners deteriorate or terminate, we may lose sales and marketing opportunities. Some current and potential customers rely on third-party systems integrators to implement and manage new and existing applications. These systems integrators may increase their promotion of competing enterprise software applications, or may otherwise discontinue their relationships with us. We also license third-party software products that we incorporate into, or resell with, our own software products. For 20 example, we incorporate Micro Focus International, Inc.’s software in many of our products and have reseller and alliance relationships with IBM, Business Software Incorporated, Business Objects, Hyperion Solutions Corporation, StreamServ, Inc., The Hackett Group, Inc. and other businesses that allow us to resell their offerings with our products and services. These relationships and other technology licenses are subject to periodic renewal and may include minimum sales requirements. A failure to renew or early termination of these relationships or other technology licenses could adversely impact our business. The integration of Lawson’s and Intentia’s businesses is complex and increases the risks related to our internal controls over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As a Swedish company, Intentia was not required to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 concerning the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting. Further, Intentia was not required to follow U.S. GAAP. Consequently, Intentia did not have the staff, experience, training or procedures to comply with these requirements. Since the closing of the merger in April 2006, we have been integrating our two businesses. As described in Item 9A of this 10-K on page 52 and 53, we have noted certain control deficiencies which we believe are significant deficiencies. Also described in Item 9A are some transitional controls we have implemented. However if these transition controls fail or if we are unable to implement our compliance procedures for the combined company on a timely basis, we could encounter more significant deficiencies or a material weakness in our internal controls. If in the future we experience a material weakness, are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective or, if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to attest that our management’s report is fairly stated or they are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have a negative market reaction. We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. As a multinational organization, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the United States as well as in various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision and other tax liabilities. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our intercompany transfer pricing policies have been the subject of audits in various foreign tax jurisdictions and will likely be subject to additional audits in the future. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, there is no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. We are also subject to non-income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, both in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate may increase or fluctuate, which could increase our income tax expense and reduce our net income. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: · Changes in the relative proportions of revenues and income before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates; · Changing tax laws, regulations, and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate; · Unanticipated changes in tax rates; · Changes in accounting and tax treatment of stock-based compensation; 21 · The tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between reporting periods; · Changes to the valuation allowance on net deferred tax assets; or · Assessments, or any related tax interest or penalties, in the period in which a settlement takes place. We report our results of operations based on our determinations of the amount of taxes owed in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate. Periodically, we receive notices that a tax authority to which we are subject has determined that we owe a greater amount of tax than we have reported to such authority, and we regularly engage in discussions, and sometimes disputes with these tax authorities. We are engaged in disputes of this nature at this time. If the ultimate determination of our taxes owed in any of these jurisdictions is for an amount in excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for, our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected. Combination-related accounting charges may delay or reduce our profitability. We accounted for the combination with Intentia as a purchase following accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Under the purchase method of accounting, the purchase price of Intentia was allocated to the fair value of the identifiable tangible and intangible assets and liabilities that we acquired from Intentia. In addition, accounting for the combination of Intentia under the purchase method required a decrease in deferred revenue to fair value. The excess of the purchase price over Intentia’s tangible net assets was allocated to goodwill and intangible assets. We are required to perform periodic impairment tests on goodwill and certain intangibles to evaluate whether the intangible assets and goodwill that we acquired from Intentia continue to have fair values that meet or exceed the amounts recorded on our balance sheet. If the fair values of such assets decline below their carrying value on our balance sheet, we may be required to recognize an impairment charge related to such decline. As of May 31, 2006, we had goodwill of $454.6 million and acquired intangibles of $154.7 million on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. As a result of the completed merger with Intentia, we have realized a significant increase in goodwill and acquired intangibles. To the extent that we do not generate sufficient cash flows to recover the net amount of the goodwill and intangibles recorded, the goodwill and intangibles could be subsequently written-off. In such an event, our results of operations in any given period would be negatively impacted, and the market price of our stock could decline. International sales and operations subject us to risks that can adversely affect our operating results. We will derive a substantial portion of our revenues, and have significant operations, outside of the United States. Our international operations include software development, sales, customer support and administration. We face challenges in managing an organization operating in various countries, which can entail longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, overlapping tax regimes, difficulties in transferring funds from certain countries and reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. We must comply with a variety of international laws and regulations, including trade restrictions, local labor ordinances, and import and export requirements. We have limited experience with offshore service centers. During fiscal 2007, we will invest substantial resources in moving a significant portion of our product development, maintenance and consulting services to a facility in the Philippines. We are currently in the process of hiring and training employees for our Philippines facility. Our ability to improve margins and gain operational efficiencies depends in part on the successful operation of this facility. We have limited experience with the operation of this type of facility, and we may be unable to achieve the anticipated 22 benefits expected of this arrangement. In addition, we may be subject to any economic or political instability that may affect the Philippines. We may experience foreign currency gains and losses. We conduct a portion of our business in currencies other than the United States dollar. Our revenues and operating results are adversely affected when the dollar strengthens relative to other currencies and are positively affected when the dollar weakens. Changes in the value of major foreign currencies, particularly the Euro, Swedish Krona and British Pound relative to the United States dollar can significantly affect revenues and our operating results. Our foreign currency transaction gains and losses are charged against earnings in the period incurred. Our products are deployed in large and complex systems and may contain defects or security flaws. Because our products are deployed in large and complex systems, they can only be fully tested for reliability when deployed in networks for long periods of time. Our software programs may contain undetected defects when first introduced or as new versions are released, and our customers may discover defects in our products, experience corruption of their data or encounter performance or scaling problems only after our software programs have been deployed. As a consequence, from time to time we have received customer complaints following installation of our products. We are currently a defendant in several lawsuits where customers have raised these types of issues with our products and services. In addition, our products are combined with products from other vendors. As a result, should problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. Software and data security are becoming increasingly important because of regulatory restrictions on data privacy and the significant legal exposures and business disruptions stemming from computer viruses and other unauthorized entry or use of computer systems. We may not be able to avoid or limit liability for disputes relating to product performance, software security or the provision of services. Product defects and security flaws could expose us to product liability and warranty claims and harm our reputation, which could impact our future sales of products and services. Competitors may take advantage of our limited intellectual property protection. We consider certain aspects of our internal operations, software and documentation to be proprietary, and rely on a combination of contract, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws to protect this information. In addition, we currently hold one patent in the United States and have filed several patent applications. Outstanding applications may not result in issued patents and, even if issued, the patents may not provide any competitive advantage. Copyright laws afford only limited protection because those laws do not protect product ideas. In addition, when we license our products to customers, we provide source code for many of our products. Customers may also access source code through a source code escrow arrangement. Access to our source code provides an opportunity for companies to offer competing maintenance and product modification services to our customers. Defending our intellectual property rights is time consuming and costly. Others may claim that we infringe their intellectual property rights. Many participants in the technology industry have an increasing number of patents and have frequently demonstrated a readiness to take legal action based on allegations of patent and other intellectual property infringement. These types of claims are time consuming and costly to defend. If a successful claim is made against us and we fail to develop or license a substitute technology, our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be adversely affected. 23 We may be unable to identify or complete suitable acquisitions and investments; and any acquisitions and investments we do complete may create business difficulties or dilute our stockholders. As part of our business strategy, we intend to pursue strategic acquisitions. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisitions or investment candidates. Even if we identify suitable candidates, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to make acquisitions or investments on commercially acceptable terms. If we acquire a company, we may incur losses in the operations of that company and we may have difficulty integrating its products, personnel and operations into our business. In addition, its key personnel may decide not to work for us. We may also have difficulty integrating acquired businesses, products, services and technologies into our operations. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and workforce, increase our expenses and adversely affect our operating results. We may also incorrectly judge the value or worth of an acquired company or business. Furthermore, we may incur significant debt or be required to issue equity securities to pay for future acquisitions or investments. The issuance of equity securities may be dilutive to our stockholders. If the products of an acquired company are not successful, those remaining assets could become impaired, which may result in an impairment loss that could materially adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. Open source software may diminish our license fees and impair the ownership of our products. The open source community is comprised of many different formal and informal groups of software developers and individuals who have created a wide variety of software and have made that software available for use, distribution and modification, often free of charge. Open source software, such as the Linux operating system, has been gaining in popularity among business users. If developers contribute enterprise application software to the open source community, and that software has competitive features and scale to business users in our markets, we will need to change our product pricing and distribution strategy to compete. If one of our developers embedded open source components into one of our products, without our knowledge or authorization, our ownership and licensing of that product could be in jeopardy. Depending on the open source license terms, the use of an open source component could mean that all products delivered with that open source component become part of the open source community. In that case, we would not own those delivered products and could not charge license fees for those products. We currently take steps to train our developers and monitor the content of products in development, but there is no assurance that these steps will always be effective. We have adopted anti-takeover defenses that could make it difficult for another company to acquire control of Lawson or limit the price investors might be willing to pay for our stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, our stockholder rights plan and under Delaware law could make it more difficult for other businesses to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain the following provisions, among others, which may inhibit an acquisition of our company by a third-party: · advance notification procedures for matters to be brought before stockholder meetings; · a limitation on who may call stockholder meetings; · a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent; and · the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without a stockholder vote. The issuance of stock under our stockholder rights plan could delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests. We are also subject to provisions of Delaware law that prohibit us from engaging in any business combination with any “interested stockholder,” meaning generally that a stockholder who beneficially owns more than 15% of our stock cannot acquire us for a period of three years from the date this person became an interested stockholder 24 unless various conditions are met, such as approval of the transaction by our board of directors. Any of these restrictions could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. Control by existing shareholders could significantly influence matters requiring stockholder approval. As of May 31, 2006, our executive officers, directors, and affiliated entities, in the aggregate, beneficially owned 27.6% of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders, if acting together, would be able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combinations. Sale of a portion of these shares in the public market, or the perception that such sales are likely to occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities Our stock price could become more volatile and your investment could lose value. All of the factors discussed above could affect our stock price, as well as speculation in the press and the analyst community, changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in analysts’ valuation measures for our stock, and market trends. A significant drop in our stock price could also expose us to the risk of securities class actions lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 