Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report, before deciding whether to invest in shares of our common stock. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. The occurrence of any of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business We have a history of net losses. We expect to continue to incur substantial and increasing net losses for the foreseeable future, and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. We are not profitable and have incurred significant net losses in each year since our inception, including net losses of $41.8 million, $32.4 million and $16.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. As of December 31, 2006, we had a deficit accumulated during development stage of $119.0 million. We expect our expenses to increase as we expand our product candidate and manufacturing development programs and add the necessary infrastructure to support operating as a public company. As a result, we expect to incur substantial and increasing net losses and negative cash flow for the foreseeable future. These losses and negative cash flows have had, and will continue to have, an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity (deficit) and working capital. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with pharmaceutical product development, we are unable to accurately predict the timing or amount of increased expenses or when, or if, we will be able to achieve or maintain profitability. Currently, we have no products approved for commercial sale, and to date we have not generated any product revenue. We have financed our operations primarily through the sale of equity securities, capital lease and equipment financing and government grants. The size of our future net losses will depend, in part, on the rate of growth of our expenses and the rate of growth, if any, of our revenues. Revenues from potential strategic partnerships are uncertain because we may not enter into any strategic partnerships, and we do not expect any government grant revenue in 2007. If we are unable to develop and commercialize one or more of our product candidates or if sales revenue from any product candidate that receives marketing approval is insufficient, we will not achieve profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability. We are a development stage company. Our success depends substantially on our lead product candidates. If we do not develop commercially successful products, we may be forced to cease operations. You must evaluate us in light of the uncertainties and complexities affecting a development stage pharmaceutical company. We have not yet commenced Phase III trials for any of our product candidates. Each of our product candidates is at an early stage of development and will be unsuccessful if it: • does not demonstrate acceptable safety and efficacy in preclinical studies and clinical trials or otherwise does not meet applicable regulatory standards for approval; • does not offer therapeutic or other improvements over existing or future drugs used to treat the same or similar conditions; • is not capable of being produced in commercial quantities at an acceptable cost, or at all; or • is not accepted by patients, the medical community or third party payors. Our ability to generate product revenue in the future is dependent on the successful development and commercialization of our product candidates. We have not proven our ability to develop and commercialize products. Problems frequently encountered in connection with the development and utilization of new and unproven technologies and the competitive environment in which we operate might limit our ability to develop 24 Table of Contents commercially successful products. We do not expect any of our current product candidates to be commercially available before 2011, if at all. If we are unable to make our product candidates commercially available, we will not generate product revenues, and we will not be successful. We will need substantial additional capital in the future. If additional capital is not available, we will have to delay, reduce or cease operations. We will need to raise additional capital to fund our operations, to develop our product candidates and to develop our manufacturing capabilities. Our future capital requirements will be substantial and will depend on many factors including: • the scope, rate of progress, results and costs of our preclinical studies, clinical trials and other research and development activities, and our manufacturing development and commercial manufacturing activities; • the amount and timing of payments from Symphony Allegro related to the development of Staccato alprazolam and Staccato loxapine; • the amount and timing of any payments to Symphony Allegro related to the repurchase of rights to Staccato alprazolam and Staccato loxapine; • the cost, timing and outcomes of regulatory proceedings; • the cost and timing of developing sales and marketing capabilities; • the cost and timing of developing manufacturing capacity; • revenues received from any future products; • payments received under any strategic partnerships; • the filing, prosecution and enforcement of patent claims; • the costs associated with moving to our new facility in 2007 and 2008; and • the costs associated with commercializing our product candidates, if they receive regulatory approval. We anticipate that existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, along with interest earned thereon, payments expected to be received from Symphony Allegro and proceeds from stock option exercises and purchases under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan, will enable us to maintain our currently planned operations through at least the end of the first quarter of 2008. Changing circumstances may cause us to consume capital significantly faster than we currently anticipate. We may be unable to raise sufficient additional capital on favorable terms to us, or at all. If we fail to raise sufficient funds, we will have to delay development programs or reduce or cease operations, or we may be required to enter into a strategic partnership at an earlier stage of development than currently anticipated. Our estimates of future capital use are uncertain, and changes in our development plans, payments received from Symphony Allegro, partnering activities, regulatory requirements and other developments may increase our rate of spending and decrease the amount of time our available resources will fund our operations. We may never be able to generate a sufficient amount of product revenue to cover our expenses. Until we do, we expect to finance our future cash needs through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, strategic partnerships or licensing arrangements, as well as interest income earned on cash balances and proceeds from stock option exercises and purchases under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Any financing transaction may contain unfavorable terms. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders’ equity will be diluted. If we raise additional funds through strategic partnerships, we may be required to relinquish rights to our product candidates or technologies, or to grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. Unless our preclinical studies demonstrate the safety of our product candidates, we will not be able to commercialize our product candidates. To obtain regulatory approval to market and sell any of our product candidates, we must satisfy the FDA and other regulatory authorities abroad, through extensive preclinical studies, that our product candidates are safe. Our 25 Table of Contents Staccato technology creates condensation aerosols from drug compounds, and there currently are no approved products that use a similar method of drug delivery. Companies developing other inhalation products have not defined or successfully completed the types of preclinical studies we believe will be required for submission to regulatory authorities as we seek approval to conduct our clinical trials. We may not conduct the types of preclinical testing eventually required by regulatory authorities, or the preclinical tests may indicate that our product candidates are not safe for use in humans. Preclinical testing is expensive, can take many years and have an uncertain outcome. In addition, success in initial preclinical testing does not ensure that later preclinical testing will be successful. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the preclinical testing process, which could delay or prevent our ability to develop or commercialize our product candidates, including: • our preclinical testing may produce inconclusive or negative safety results, which may require us to conduct additional preclinical testing or to abandon product candidates that we believed to be promising; • our product candidates may have unfavorable pharmacology, toxicology or carcinogenicity; and • our product candidates may cause undesirable side effects. Any such events would increase our costs and could delay or prevent our ability to commercialize our product candidates, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and prospects. Preclinical studies indicated possible adverse impact of pulmonary delivery of AZ-001. In our daily dosing animal toxicology studies of prochlorperazine, the active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, in AZ-001, we detected changes to, and increases of, the cells in the upper airway of the test animals. The terms for these changes and increases are “squamous metaplasia” and “hyperplasia,” respectively. We also observed lung inflammation in some animals. These findings occurred in daily dosing studies at doses that were proportionately substantially greater than any dose we expect to continue to develop or commercialize. In subsequent toxicology studies of AZ-001 involving intermittent dosing consistent with its intended use, we detected lower incidence and severity of the changes to, and increases of, the cells in the upper airway of the test animals compared to the daily dosing results. We did not observe any lung inflammation with intermittent dosing. These findings suggest that the delivery of the pure drug compound of AZ-001 at the proportionately higher doses used in daily dosing toxicology studies may cause adverse consequences if we were to administer prochlorperazine chronically for prolonged periods of time. If we observe these findings in our clinical trials of AZ-001, it could prevent further development or commercialization of AZ-001. Failure or delay in commencing or completing clinical trials for our product candidates could harm our business. To date, we have not completed all the clinical trials necessary to support an application with the FDA for approval to market any of our product candidates. Current and planned clinical trials may be delayed or terminated as a result of many factors, including: • delays or failure in reaching agreement on acceptable clinical trial contracts or clinical trial protocols with prospective sites; • regulators or institutional review boards may not authorize us to commence a clinical trial; • regulators or institutional review boards may suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements or concerns about patient safety; • we may suspend or terminate our clinical trials if we believe that they expose the participating patients to unacceptable health risks; • we may experience slower than expected patient enrollment or lack of a sufficient number of patients that meet the enrollment criteria for our clinical trials; • patients may not complete clinical trials due to safety issues, side effects, dissatisfaction with the product candidate, or other reasons; 26 Table of Contents • we may have difficulty in maintaining contact with patients after treatment, preventing us from collecting the data required by our study protocol; • product candidates may demonstrate a lack of efficacy during clinical trials; • we may experience governmental or regulatory delays, failure to obtain regulatory approval or changes in regulatory requirements, policy and guidelines; and • we may experience delays in our ability to manufacture clinical trial materials in a timely manner as a result of ongoing process and design enhancements to our Staccato system and the planned move to a new facility in 2007. Any delay in commencing or completing clinical trials for our product candidates would delay commercialization of our product candidates and harm our business, financial condition and prospects. It is possible that none of our product candidates will successfully complete clinical trials or receive regulatory approval, which would severely harm our business, financial condition and prospects. If our product candidates do not meet safety and efficacy endpoints in clinical trials, they will not receive regulatory approval, and we will be unable to market them. Our product candidates are in preclinical and clinical development and have not received regulatory approval from the FDA or any foreign regulatory authority. The clinical development and regulatory approval process is extremely expensive and takes many years. The timing of any approval cannot be accurately predicted. If we fail to obtain regulatory approval for our current or future product candidates, we will be unable to market and sell them and therefore may never be profitable. As part of the regulatory process, we must conduct clinical trials for each product candidate to demonstrate safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the FDA and other regulatory authorities abroad. The number and design of clinical trials that will be required varies depending on the product candidate, the condition being evaluated, the trial results and regulations applicable to any particular product candidate. Prior clinical trial program designs and results are not necessarily predictive of future clinical trial designs or results. Initial results may not be confirmed upon full analysis of the detailed results of a trial. Product candidates in later stage clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy despite having progressed through initial clinical trials with acceptable endpoints. Prior clinical trial program designs and results are not necessarily predictive of future clinical trial designs or results. If our product candidates fail to show a clinically significant benefit compared to placebo, they will not be approved for marketing. Device failure rates higher than we anticipate may result in clinical trials that do not meet their specific efficacy endpoints. We experienced a 3% device failure rate in our Phase IIa clinical trial of AZ-001, which caused some of the results to be not statistically significant. We experienced a device failure rate in our Phase IIb clinical trial of AZ-001 of less than 1%. Device failures or improper device use by patients may impact the results of future trials. The design of our clinical trials is based on many assumptions about the expected effect of our product candidates, and if those assumptions prove incorrect, the clinical trials may not produce statistically significant results. In addition, because we are developing AZ-002 for a novel indication, and may develop future product candidates for other novel indications, and because our Staccato technology is not similar to other approved drug delivery methods, there is no clear precedent for the application of detailed regulatory requirements to our product candidates. We cannot assure you that the design of, or data collected from, the clinical trials of our product candidates will be sufficient to support the FDA and foreign regulatory approvals. Regulatory authorities may not approve our product candidates even if they meet safety and efficacy endpoints in clinical trials. The FDA and other foreign regulatory agencies can delay, limit or deny marketing approval for many reasons, including: • a product candidate may not be considered safe or effective; 27 Table of Contents • the manufacturing processes or facilities we have selected may not meet the applicable requirements; and • changes in their approval policies or adoption of new regulations may require additional work on our part. Any delay in, or failure to receive or maintain, approval for any of our product candidates could prevent us from ever generating meaningful revenues or achieving profitability. Our product candidates may not be approved even if they achieve their endpoints in clinical trials. Regulatory agencies, including the FDA, or their advisors may disagree with our trial design and our interpretations of data from preclinical studies and clinical trials. Regulatory agencies may change requirements for approval even after a clinical trial design has been approved. Regulatory agencies also may approve a product candidate for fewer or more limited indications than requested or may grant approval subject to the performance of post-marketing studies. In addition, regulatory agencies may not approve the labeling claims that are necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of our product candidates. Our product candidates will remain subject to ongoing regulatory review even if they receive marketing approval. If we fail to comply with continuing regulations, we could lose these approvals, and the sale of any future products could be suspended. Even if we receive regulatory approval to market a particular product candidate, the FDA or a foreign regulatory authority could condition approval on conducting additional costly post-approval studies or could limit the scope of our approved labeling. Moreover, the product may later cause adverse effects that limit or prevent its widespread use, force us to withdraw it from the market or impede or delay our ability to obtain regulatory approvals in additional countries. In addition, we will continue to be subject to FDA review and periodic inspections to ensure adherence to applicable regulations. After receiving marketing approval, the FDA imposes extensive regulatory requirements on the manufacturing, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and record keeping related to the product. If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA and other applicable U.S. and foreign regulatory authorities or previously unknown problems with any future products, suppliers or manufacturing processes are discovered, we could be subject to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including: • restrictions on the products, suppliers or manufacturing processes; • warning letters or untitled letters; • civil or criminal penalties or fines; • injunctions; • product seizures, detentions or import bans; • voluntary or mandatory product recalls and publicity requirements; • suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; • total or partial suspension of production; and • refusal to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new drugs or supplements to approved applications. If we do not produce our devices cost effectively, we will never be profitable. Our Staccato system based product candidates contain electronic and other components in addition to the active pharmaceutical ingredients. As a result of the cost of developing and producing these components, the cost to produce our product candidates, and any approved products, will likely be higher per dose than the cost to produce intravenous or oral tablet products. This increased cost of goods may prevent us from ever selling any products at a profit. In addition, we are developing single dose and multiple dose versions of our Staccato system. Developing multiple versions of our Staccato system may reduce or eliminate our ability to achieve manufacturing economies of scale. In addition, developing multiple versions of our Staccato system reduces our ability to focus development 28 Table of Contents resources on each version, potentially reducing our ability to effectively develop any particular version. We expect to continue to modify each of our product candidates throughout their clinical development to improve their performance, dependability, manufacturability and quality. Some of these modifications may require additional regulatory review and approval, which may delay or prevent us from conducting clinical trials. The development and production of our technology entail a number of technical challenges, including achieving adequate dependability, that may be expensive or time consuming to solve. Any delay in or failure to develop and manufacture any future products in a cost effective way could prevent us from generating any meaningful revenues and prevent us from becoming profitable. We rely on third parties to conduct our preclinical studies and our clinical trials. If these third parties do not perform as contractually required or expected, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, or we may be delayed in doing so. We do not have the ability to conduct preclinical studies or clinical trials independently for our product candidates. We must rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, academic institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories, to conduct our preclinical studies and clinical trials. We are responsible for confirming that our preclinical studies are conducted in accordance with applicable regulations and that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with its general investigational plan and protocol. The FDA requires us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good laboratory practices, or GLP, for conducting and recording the results of our preclinical studies and good clinical practices for conducting, monitoring, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials, to assure that data and reported results are accurate and that the clinical trial participants are adequately protected. Our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities. If the third parties conducting our clinical trials do not perform their contractual duties or obligations, do not meet expected deadlines, fail to comply with the FDA’s good clinical practice regulations, do not adhere to our clinical trial protocols or otherwise fail to generate reliable clinical data, we may need to enter into new arrangements with alternative third parties and our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated or may need to be repeated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize the product candidate being tested in such trials. Problems with the third parties that manufacture the active pharmaceutical ingredients in our product candidates may delay our clinical trials or subject us to liability. We do not currently own or operate manufacturing facilities for clinical or commercial production of the API used in any of our product candidates. We have no experience in drug manufacturing, and we lack the resources and the capability to manufacture any of the APIs used in our product candidates, on either a clinical or commercial scale. As a result, we rely on third parties to supply the API used in each of our product candidates. We expect to continue to depend on third parties to supply the API for our lead product candidates and any additional product candidates we develop in the foreseeable future. An API manufacturer must meet high precision and quality standards for that API to meet regulatory specifications and comply with regulatory requirements. A contract manufacturer is subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign authorities to ensure strict compliance with current good manufacturing practice, or cGMP, and other applicable government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. Additionally, a contract manufacturer must pass a pre-approval inspection by the FDA to ensure strict compliance with cGMP prior to the FDA’s approval of any product candidate for marketing. A contract manufacturer’s failure to conform with cGMP could result in the FDA’s refusal to approve or a delay in the FDA’s approval of a product candidate for marketing. We are ultimately responsible for confirming that the APIs used in our product candidates are manufactured in accordance with applicable regulations. Our third party suppliers may not carry out their contractual obligations or meet our deadlines. In addition, the API they supply to us may not meet our specifications and quality policies and procedures. If we need to find alternative suppliers of the API used in any of our product candidates, we may not be able to contract for such supplies on acceptable terms, if at all. Any such failure to supply or delay caused by such contract manufacturers would have an adverse affect on our ability to continue clinical development of our product candidates or commercialize any future products. 29 Table of Contents If our third party drug suppliers fail to achieve and maintain high manufacturing standards in compliance with cGMP regulations, we could be subject to certain product liability claims in the event such failure to comply resulted in defective products that caused injury or harm. If we experience problems with the manufacturers of components of our product candidates, our development programs may be delayed or we may be subject to liability. We outsource the manufacturing of some of the components of our Staccato system, including the printed circuit boards and the plastic airways. We have no experience in the manufacturing of these components, and we currently lack the resources and the capability to manufacture them, on either a clinical or commercial scale. As a result, we rely on third parties to supply these components. We expect to continue to depend on third parties to supply these components for our current product candidates and any devices based on the Staccato system we develop in the foreseeable future. In the future, we may outsource the manufacture of additional components, including the heat packages in our single dose design. The third party suppliers of the components of our Staccato system must meet high precision and quality standards for those components to comply with regulatory requirements. A contract manufacturer is subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign authorities to ensure strict compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR, which sets forth the FDA’s current good manufacturing practice requirements for medical devices and their components, and other applicable government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We are ultimately responsible for confirming that the components used in the Staccato system are manufactured in accordance with the QSR or other applicable regulations. Our third party suppliers may not comply with their contractual obligations or meet our deadlines, or the components they supply to us may not meet our specifications and quality policies and procedures. If we need to find alternative suppliers of the components used in the Staccato system, we may not be able to contract for such components on acceptable terms, if at all. Any such failure to supply or delay caused by such contract manufacturers would have an adverse affect on our ability to continue clinical development of our product candidates or commercialize any future products. In addition, the heat packages used in the single dose version of our Staccato system are manufactured using certain energetic, or highly combustible, materials that are used to generate the rapid heating necessary for vaporizing the drug compound while avoiding degradation. Manufacture of products containing these types of materials is regulated by the U.S. government. We currently manufacture the heat packages that are being used in the devices used in our clinical trials. We have entered into a joint development agreement with Autoliv ASP, Inc. for the manufacture of the heat packages in the commercial design of our single dose version of our Staccato system. If we are unable to manufacture the heat packages used in our ongoing clinical trials or if in the future Autoliv is unable to manufacture the heat packages to our specifications, or does not carry out its contractual obligations to develop our heat packages or to supply them to us, our clinical trials may be delayed, suspended or terminated while we seek additional suitable manufacturers of our heat packages, which may prevent us from commercializing our product candidates that utilize the single dose version of the Staccato system. If we do not establish additional strategic partnerships, we will have to undertake development and commercialization efforts on our own, which would be costly and delay our ability to commercialize any future products. A key element of our business strategy is our intent to selectively partner with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to obtain assistance for the development and potential commercialization of our product candidates. On December 1, 2006, we entered into such a development relationship with Symphony Allegro. We intend to enter into additional strategic partnerships with third parties to develop and commercialize our product candidates that are intended for larger markets, and we may enter into strategic partnerships for product candidates that are targeted toward specialty markets. We believe the effective commercialization of AZ-001 and AZ-003 will require a large, sophisticated sales and marketing organization. We have completed a Phase I study of AZ-003, and we plan no additional development of AZ-003 in 2007 unless and until we secure a partner to support continued drug and device development. To date, other than Symphony Allegro, we have not entered into any partnerships 30 Table of Contents with pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies for any of our product candidates. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate strategic partners, and these strategic partnerships can be intricate and time consuming to negotiate and document. We may not be able to negotiate strategic partnerships on acceptable terms, or at all. We are unable to predict when, if ever, we will enter into any additional strategic partnerships because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with establishing strategic partnerships. If we are unable to negotiate additional strategic partnerships for our product candidates we may be forced to curtail the development of a particular candidate, reduce or delay its development program or one or more of our other development programs, delay its potential commercialization, reduce the scope of our sales or marketing activities or undertake development or commercialization activities at our own expense. In addition, we will bear all the risk related to the development of that product candidate. If we elect to increase our expenditures to fund development or commercialization activities on our own, we may need to obtain additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we do not have sufficient funds, we will not be able to bring our product candidates to market and generate product revenue. If we enter into additional strategic partnerships with pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, we may be required to relinquish important rights to and control over the development of our product candidates or otherwise be subject to terms unfavorable to us. Due to our relationship with Symphony Allegro, and for any additional strategic partnerships with pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, we are subject to a number of risks, including: • we may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our strategic partners devote to the development or commercialization of product candidates; • strategic partners may delay clinical trials, provide insufficient funding, terminate a clinical trial or abandon a product candidate, repeat or conduct new clinical trials or require a new version of a product candidate for clinical testing; • strategic partners may not pursue further development and commercialization of products resulting from the strategic partnering arrangement or may elect to discontinue research and development programs; • strategic partners may not commit adequate resources to the marketing and distribution of any future products, limiting our potential revenues from these products; • disputes may arise between us and our strategic partners that result in the delay or termination of the research, development or commercialization of our product candidates or that result in costly litigation or arbitration that diverts management’s attention and consumes resources; • strategic partners may experience financial difficulties; • strategic partners may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or may use our proprietary information in a manner that could jeopardize or invalidate our proprietary information or expose us to potential litigation; • business combinations or significant changes in a strategic partner’s business strategy may also adversely affect a strategic partner’s willingness or ability to complete its obligations under any arrangement; • strategic partners could independently move forward with a competing product candidate developed either independently or in collaboration with others, including our competitors; and • strategic partners could terminate the arrangement or allow it to expire, which would delay the development and may increase the cost of developing our product candidates. If we fail to gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, third-party payors and the medical community, we will not become profitable. The Staccato system is a fundamentally new method of drug delivery. Any future product based on our Staccato system may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, third-party payors and the medical community. If these products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we will not generate sufficient product 31 Table of Contents revenues to become profitable. The degree of market acceptance of any of our product candidates, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, including: • demonstration of efficacy and safety in clinical trials; • the existence, prevalence and severity of any side effects; • potential or perceived advantages or disadvantages compared to alternative treatments; • perceptions about the relationship or similarity between our product candidates and the parent drug compound upon which each product candidate is based; • the timing of market entry relative to competitive treatments; • the ability to offer any future products for sale at competitive prices; • relative convenience, product dependability and ease of administration; • the strength of marketing and distribution support; • the sufficiency of coverage and reimbursement of our product candidates by governmental and other third-party payors; and • the product labeling or product insert required by the FDA or regulatory authorities in other countries. Our pipeline may be limited by the number of drug compounds suitable for use with the Staccato system. The current versions of the Staccato system cannot deliver large molecule drugs, such as peptides and proteins. In addition, the physical size of the metal substrates in the single dose and multiple dose versions of the Staccato system limits their use to drugs that require dose amounts less than 10 to 15 milligrams and 100 to 200 micrograms, respectively. Further, approximately 200 of the 400 small molecule compounds we have screened for initial vaporization feasibility did not form drug aerosols with the 97% purity we use as an internal standard for further development. There are also many drug compounds that are covered by composition of matter patents that prevent us from developing the compound in the Staccato system without a license from the patent owner, which may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are not able to identify additional drug compounds that can be developed with the Staccato system, we will not be able to implement our strategy of filing one IND in 2007 and one to two INDs per year thereafter, and we may not develop enough products to develop a sustainable business. AZ-001 and other product candidates that we may develop may require expensive carcinogenicity tests. The API in AZ-001, prochlorperazine, was approved by the FDA in 1956 for the treatment of severe nausea and vomiting. At that time, the FDA did not require the carcinogenicity testing that is now generally required for marketing approval. It is unclear whether we will be required to perform such testing prior to filing our application for marketing approval of AZ-001 or whether we will be allowed to perform such testing after we file an application. Such carcinogenicity testing will be expensive and require significant additional resources to complete and may delay approval to market AZ-001. We may encounter similar requirements with other product candidates incorporating drugs that have not undergone carcinogenicity testing. Any carcinogenicity testing we are required to complete will increase the costs to develop a particular product candidate and may delay or halt the development of such product candidate. If some or all of our patents expire, are invalidated or are unenforceable, or if some or all of our patent applications do not yield issued patents or yield patents with narrow claims, competitors may develop competing products using our or similar intellectual property and our business will suffer. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent and trade secret protection for our technologies and product candidates both in the United States and other countries. We do not know whether any patents will issue from any of our pending or future patent applications. In addition, a third party may successfully circumvent our patents. Our rights under any issued patents may not provide us with sufficient protection against competitive products or otherwise cover commercially valuable products or processes. 32 Table of Contents The degree of protection for our proprietary technologies and product candidates is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. For example: • we might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications and issued patents; • we might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • it is possible that none of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents; • the claims of our issued patents may be narrower than as filed and not sufficiently broad to prevent third parties from circumventing them; • we may not develop additional proprietary technologies or drug candidates that are patentable; • our patent applications or patents may be subject to interference, opposition or similar administrative proceedings; • any patents issued to us or our potential strategic partners may not provide a basis for commercially viable products or may be challenged by third parties in the course of litigation or administrative proceedings such as reexaminations or interferences; and • the patents of others may have an adverse effect on our ability to do business. Even if valid and enforceable patents cover our product candidates and technologies, the patents will provide protection only for a limited amount of time. Our and our potential strategic partners’ ability to obtain patents is uncertain because, to date, some legal principles remain unresolved, there has not been a consistent policy regarding the breadth or interpretation of claims allowed in patents in the United States, and the specific content of patents and patent applications that are necessary to support and interpret patent claims is highly uncertain due to the complex nature of the relevant legal, scientific and factual issues. Furthermore, the policies governing pharmaceutical and medical device patents outside the United States may be even more uncertain. Changes in either patent laws or interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. Even if patents are issued regarding our product candidates or methods of using them, those patents can be challenged by our competitors who can argue that our patents are invalid and/or unenforceable. Third parties may challenge our rights to, or the scope or validity of, our patents. Patents also may not protect our product candidates if competitors devise ways of making these or similar product candidates without legally infringing our patents. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and the FDA regulations and policies provide incentives to manufacturers to challenge patent validity or create modified, non-infringing versions of a drug or device in order to facilitate the approval of generic substitutes. These same types of incentives encourage manufacturers to submit new drug applications that rely on literature and clinical data not prepared for or by the drug sponsor. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe that patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. The employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors of our company and our strategic partners, if any, may unintentionally or willfully disclose our confidential information to competitors. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming and the outcome is unpredictable. Failure to protect or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. Our research and development collaborators may have rights to publish data and other information in which we have rights. In addition, we sometimes engage individuals or entities to conduct research that may be relevant to our business. The ability of these individuals or entities to publish or otherwise publicly disclose data and other information generated during the course of their research is subject to certain contractual limitations. These 33 Table of Contents contractual provisions may be insufficient or inadequate to protect our trade secrets and may impair our patent rights. If we do not apply for patent protection prior to such publication or if we cannot otherwise maintain the confidentiality of our technology and other confidential information, then our ability to receive patent protection or protect our proprietary information may be jeopardized. Litigation or other proceedings or third party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend time and money and could shut down some of our operations. Our commercial success depends in part on not infringing patents and proprietary rights of third parties. Others have filed, and in the future are likely to file, patent applications covering products that are similar to our product candidates, as well as methods of making or using similar or identical products. If these patent applications result in issued patents and we wish to use the claimed technology, we would need to obtain a license from the third party. We may not be able to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. In particular, we are aware of at least one pending U.S. patent application and foreign counterparts filed by a biopharmaceutical company relating to the use of drugs, including alprazolam which is the API in AZ-002, for treating disorders of the central nervous system by pulmonary delivery. In addition, we are aware of another pending U.S. patent application and foreign counterparts, filed by another biopharmaceutical company, that claims a method of making a vapor medicament under specific manufacturing conditions. We do not currently have a license to these patent applications. If these patent applications were to result in issued patents as originally filed, the relevant patent holders at that time may assert that we require licenses. If these patent applications issue as originally filed, we believe we have valid defenses against any assertions that our product candidates are infringing. We do not know whether a court would determine that our defenses are valid. If we decide to pursue a license to one or more of these patent applications, or patents issued therefrom, we do not know that we will be able to obtain such a license on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, administrative proceedings, such as interferences and reexaminations before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, could limit the scope of our patent rights. We may incur substantial costs and diversion of management and technical personnel as a result of our involvement in such proceedings. In particular, our patents and patent applications may be subject to interferences in which the priority of invention may be awarded to a third party. We do not know whether our patents and patent applications will be entitled to priority over patents or patent applications held by such a third party. Our issued patents may also be subject to reexamination proceedings. We do not know whether our patents would survive reexamination in light of new questions of patentability that may be raised following their issuance. Third parties may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology or their proprietary products without authorization. In addition, third parties may already have or may obtain patents in the future and claim that use of our technologies or our products infringes these patents. We could incur substantial costs and diversion of management and technical personnel in defending our self against any of these claims. Furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability to further develop, commercialize and sell any future products and could result in the award of substantial damages against us. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties. We may not be able to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. In that event, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative methods or products. In the event we cannot develop alternative methods or products, we may be effectively blocked from developing, commercializing or selling any future products. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these licenses would be expensive and could prevent us from commercializing any future products. We review from time to time publicly available information concerning the technological development efforts of other companies in our industry. If we determine that these efforts violate our intellectual property or other rights, we intend to take appropriate action, which could include litigation. Any action we take could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical personnel in enforcing our patents or other intellectual property rights against others. Furthermore, the outcome of any action we take to protect our rights may not be resolved in our favor. 34 Table of Contents Competition in the pharmaceutical industry is intense. If our competitors are able to develop and market products that are more effective, safer or less costly than any future products that we may develop, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. We face competition from established as well as emerging pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as from academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions. Our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize products that are safer, more effective, have fewer side effects or are less expensive than any future products that we may develop and commercialize. In addition, significant delays in the development of our product candidates could allow our competitors to bring products to market before us and impair our ability to commercialize our product candidates. We anticipate that, if approved, AZ-001 would compete with currently marketed triptan drugs and with other migraine headache treatments, including intravenous, or IV, delivery of prochlorperazine, the API in AZ-001. In addition, we are aware of at least 14 product candidates for the treatment of migraines, including triptan products and a sumatriptan/naproxen combination product. We anticipate that, if approved, AZ-004 would compete with the available intramuscular, or IM, injectable form and oral forms of loxapine for the treatment of agitation, and other forms of available antipsychotic drugs. In addition, we are aware of a post marketing study of Seroquel® quetiapine for reducing agitation in elderly patients with Alzheimer’s disease. We anticipate that, if approved, AZ-002 would compete with the oral tablet form of alprazolam and several other approved anti-depressant drugs. In addition, we are aware of two product candidates in early stage clinical development for the treatment of acute panic attacks. We anticipate that, if approved, AZ-003 would compete with some of the available forms of fentanyl, including injectable fentanyl, oral transmucosal fentanyl formulations and ionophoretic transdermal delivery of fentanyl. We are also aware of at least 20 products in Phase II and Phase III development for acute pain, five of which are fentanyl products. Two of these fentanyl products are inhaled versions. In addition, if approved, AZ-003 would compete with various generic opioid drugs, such as oxycodone, hydrocodone and morphine, or combination products including one or more of such drugs. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing approved products than we do. Established pharmaceutical companies may invest heavily to discover quickly and develop novel compounds or drug delivery technology that could make our product candidates obsolete. Smaller or early stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through strategic partnerships with large and established companies. In addition, these third parties compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies and technology licenses complementary to our programs or advantageous to our business. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining patent protection, receiving FDA approval or discovering, developing and commercializing products before we do. If we are not able to compete effectively against our current and future competitors, our business will not grow and our financial condition will suffer. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell our product candidates, we may be unable to generate significant product revenue. We do not have a sales and marketing organization and have no experience in the sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products. There are risks involved with establishing our own sales and marketing capabilities, as well as entering into arrangements with third parties to perform these services. Developing an internal sales force is expensive and time consuming and could delay any product launch. On the other hand, if we enter into arrangements with third parties to perform sales, marketing and distribution services, our product revenues are likely to be lower than if we market and sell any products that we develop ourselves. 35 Table of Contents We may establish our own specialty sales force and/or engage pharmaceutical or other healthcare companies with existing sales and marketing organization and distribution systems to sell, market and distribute any future products. We may not be able to establish a specialty sales force or establish sales and distribution relationships on acceptable terms. Factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize any future products without strategic partners or licensees include: • our inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel; • the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe any future products; • the lack of complementary products to be offered by sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and • unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating an independent sales and marketing organization. Because the establishment of sales and marketing capabilities depends on the progress towards commercialization of our product candidates and because of the numerous risks and uncertainties involved with establishing our own sales and marketing capabilities, we are unable to predict when, if ever, we will establish our own sales and marketing capabilities. However, we do not anticipate establishing sales and marketing capabilities until at least 2010. If we are not able to partner with a third party and are unsuccessful in recruiting sales and marketing personnel or in building a sales and marketing infrastructure, we will have difficulty commercializing our product candidates, which would adversely affect our business and financial condition. If we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, we may be unable to develop or commercialize our product candidates. We are highly dependent on our President and Chief Executive Officer, Thomas B. King, the loss of whose services might adversely impact the achievement of our objectives. In addition, recruiting and retaining qualified clinical, scientific and engineering personnel to manage clinical trials of our product candidates and to perform future research and development work will be critical to our success. There is currently a shortage of skilled executives in our industry, which is likely to continue. As a result, competition for skilled personnel is intense and the turnover rate can be high. Although we believe we will be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel, competition for experienced management and clinical, scientific and engineering personnel from numerous companies and academic and other research institutions may limit our ability to do so on acceptable terms. In addition, we do not have employment agreements with any of our employees, and they could leave our employment at will. We have change of control agreements with our executive officers and vice presidents that provide for certain benefits upon termination or a change in role or responsibility in connection with a change of control of our company. We do not maintain life insurance policies on any employees. Failure to attract and retain personnel would prevent us from developing and commercializing our product candidates. We may encounter difficulties in managing our growth, which could increase our losses. We expect to experience substantial growth in our business over the next few years. We expect to substantially increase our number of employees to service our internal programs and planned strategic partnering arrangements. This growth will place a strain on our human and capital resources. If we are unable to manage this growth effectively, our losses could increase. Our need to manage our operations and growth effectively requires us to continue to expend funds to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures, to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees and to manage our facility requirements. If we are unable to implement improvements to our management information and control systems successfully in an efficient or timely manner, or if we encounter deficiencies in existing systems and controls, then management may receive inadequate information to manage our day to day operations. 36 Table of Contents If plaintiffs bring product liability lawsuits against us, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of the product candidates that we may develop. We face an inherent risk of product liability as a result of the clinical testing of our product candidates in clinical trials and will face an even greater risk if we commercialize any products. We may be held liable if any product we develop causes injury or is found otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing or sale. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in decreased demand for any product candidates or products that we may develop, injury to our reputation, withdrawal of clinical trials, costs to defend litigation, substantial monetary awards to clinical trial participants or patients, loss of revenue and the inability to commercialize any products that we develop. We have product liability insurance that covers our clinical trials up to a $10 million aggregate annual limit. We intend to expand product liability insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if we obtain marketing approval for any products that we may develop. However, this insurance may be prohibitively expensive, or may not fully cover our potential liabilities. Inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or delay the commercialization of our product candidates. If we are sued for any injury caused by any future products, our liability could exceed our total assets. Our product candidates AZ-002 and AZ-003 contain drug substances which are regulated by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration. Failure to comply with applicable regulations could harm our business. The Controlled Substances Act imposes various registration, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, procurement and manufacturing quotas, labeling and packaging requirements, security controls and a restriction on prescription refills on certain pharmaceutical products. A principal factor in determining the particular requirements, if any, applicable to a product is its actual or potential abuse profile. The U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration, or DEA, regulates chemical compounds as Schedule I, II, III, IV or V substances, with Schedule I substances considered to present the highest risk of substance abuse and Schedule V substances the lowest risk. Alprazolam, the API in AZ-002, is regulated as a Schedule IV substance, and fentanyl, the API in AZ-003, is regulated as a Schedule II substance. Each of these product candidates is subject to DEA regulations relating to manufacture, storage, distribution and physician prescription procedures, and the DEA regulates the amount of the scheduled substance that would be available for clinical trials and commercial distribution. As a Schedule II substance, fentanyl is subject to more stringent controls, including quotas on the amount of product that can be manufactured as well as a prohibition on the refilling of prescriptions without a new prescription from the physician. The DEA periodically inspects facilities for compliance with its rules and regulations. Failure to comply with current and future regulations of the DEA could lead to a variety of sanctions, including revocation, or denial of renewal, or of DEA registrations, injunctions, or civil or criminal penalties and could harm our business, financial condition and prospects. The single dose version of our Staccato system contains materials that are regulated by the U.S. government, and failure to comply with applicable regulations could harm our business. The single dose version of our Staccato system uses energetic materials to generate the rapid heating necessary for vaporizing the drug, while avoiding degradation. Manufacture of products containing energetic materials is controlled by the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, or ATF. Technically, the energetic materials used in our Staccato system are classified as “low explosives,” and the ATF has granted us a license/permit for the manufacture of such low explosives. Additionally, due to inclusion of the energetic materials in our Staccato system, the Department of Transportation, or DOT, regulates shipments of the single dose version of our Staccato system. The DOT has granted the single dose version of our Staccato system “Not Regulated as an Explosive” status. Failure to comply with the current and future regulations of the ATF or DOT could subject us to future liabilities and could harm our business, financial condition and prospects. Furthermore, these regulations could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or construct new facilities or could require us to incur other significant expenses in order to maintain compliance. 37 Table of Contents We use hazardous chemicals and highly combustible materials in our business. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time consuming and costly. Our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including chemicals. We also use energetic materials in the manufacture of the chemical heat packages that are used in our single dose devices. Our operations produce hazardous waste products. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge or injury from these materials. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials. We could be subject to civil damages in the event of an improper or unauthorized release of, or exposure of individuals to, hazardous materials. In addition, claimants may sue us for injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties of these materials and our liability may exceed our total assets. We maintain insurance for the use of hazardous materials in the aggregate amount of $1 million, which may not be adequate to cover any claims. Compliance with environmental and other laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts. Certain of our suppliers are working with these types of hazardous and highly combustible materials in connection with our component manufacturing agreements. In the event of a lawsuit or investigation, we could be held responsible for any injury caused to persons or property by exposure to, or release of, these hazardous and highly combustible materials. Further, under certain circumstances, we have agreed to indemnify our suppliers against damages and other liabilities arising out of development activities or products produced in connection with these agreements. We will need to implement additional finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls in the future as we grow and to satisfy new reporting requirements. The laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley, and rules enacted and proposed by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and by the Nasdaq Global Market, will result in increased costs to us as we undertake efforts to comply with rules and respond to the requirements applicable to public companies. The rules make it more difficult and costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage as compared to the polices previously available to public companies. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or our board committees or as executive officers. As a public company, we need to comply with Sarbanes-Oxley and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, including expanded disclosure, accelerated reporting requirements and more complex accounting rules. Compliance with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley and other requirements will increase our costs and require additional management resources. We have been upgrading our finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls and will need to continue to implement additional finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls as we grow to satisfy new reporting requirements. We currently do not have an internal audit group. In addition, we may need to hire additional legal and accounting staff with appropriate experience and technical knowledge, and we cannot assure you that if additional staffing is necessary that we will be able to do so in a timely fashion. If we are unable to complete the required assessment as to the adequacy of our internal reporting or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our internal controls over financial reporting, which could adversely affect our stock price. Our facilities are located near known earthquake fault zones, and the occurrence of an earthquake or other catastrophic disaster could damage our facilities and equipment, which could cause us to curtail or cease operations. Our facilities are located in the San Francisco Bay Area near known earthquake fault zones and, therefore, are vulnerable to damage from earthquakes. We are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, such as power loss, fire, floods and similar events. If any disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business could be 38 Table of Contents seriously impaired. We currently may not have adequate insurance to cover our losses resulting from disasters or other similar significant business interruptions, and we do not plan to purchase additional insurance to cover such losses due to the cost of obtaining such coverage. Any significant losses that are not recoverable under our insurance policies could seriously impair our business, financial condition and prospects. Risks Relating to Owning Our Common Stock Our stock price may be extremely volatile, and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid for the stock. Our common stock price has experienced large fluctuations since our initial public offering in March 2006. In addition, the trading prices of life science and biotechnology company stocks in general have experienced extreme price fluctuations in recent years. The valuations of many life science companies without consistent product revenues and earnings are extraordinarily high based on conventional valuation standards, such as price to revenue ratios. These trading prices and valuations may not be sustained. Any negative change in the public’s perception of the prospects of life science or biotechnology companies could depress our stock price regardless of our results of operations. Other broad market and industry factors may decrease the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our performance. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions such as terrorism, military conflict, recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations, also may decrease the trading price of our common stock. In addition, our stock price could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, including: • actual or anticipated results and timing of our clinical trials; • actual or anticipated regulatory approvals of our product candidates or competing products; • changes in laws or regulations applicable to our product candidates; • changes in the expected or actual timing of our development programs, including delays or cancellations of clinical trials for our product candidates; • period to period fluctuations in our operating results; • announcements of new technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • costs or delays related to our planned facility relocation in 2007; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • conditions or trends in the life science and biotechnology industries; • changes in the market valuations of other life science or biotechnology companies; • developments in domestic and international governmental policy or regulations; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • additions or departures of key personnel; • disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies; • sales of our common stock by us; and • sales and distributions of our common stock by our stockholders. In the past, stockholders have often instituted securities class action litigation after periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities. If a stockholder files a securities class action suit against us, we would incur substantial legal fees and our management’s attention and resources would be diverted from operating our business in order to respond to the litigation. 39 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Directors, Executive Officers and Key Employees Our directors, executive officers and key employees as of March 15, 2007, are as follows: Name Age Position Thomas B. King 52 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director James V. Cassella, Ph.D. 52 Senior Vice President, Research and Development August J. Moretti 56 Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary Anthony G. Tebbutt 59 Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy & Business Development Jeffrey S. Williams 42 Senior Vice President, Operations and Manufacturing Joseph L. Baker 52 Vice President, Commercial Manufacturing and Global Supply Chain William C. Houghton, M.D. 64 Vice President, Clinical and Regulatory Affairs Emily Lee Kelley 49 Vice President, Human Resources William L. Leschensky, M.D. 46 Vice President, Intellectual Property Michael J. Taylor, Ph.D., D.A.B.T 53 Vice President, Preclinical Development Samuel D. Colella(2)(3) 67 Director Alan D. Frazier(1) 55 Director Ernest Mario, Ph.D.(2) 68 Director Deepika R. Pakianathan, Ph.D.(2) 42 Director J. Leighton Read, M.D.(1) 56 Director Gordon Ringold, Ph.D.(2) 56 Director Isaac Stein(1)(3)(4) 60 Director Alejandro A. Zaffaroni, M.D.(3) 56 Director (1) Member of the audit and ethics committee (2) Member of the compensation committee (3) Member of the nominating and corporate governance committee (4) Lead Director Thomas B. King has served as our President, Chief Executive Officer and a member of our board of directors since June 2003. From September 2002 to April 2003, Mr. King served as President, Chief Executive Officer and a member of the board of directors of Cognetix, Inc., a biopharmaceutical development company. From January 1994 to February 2001, Mr. King held various senior executive positions, including President and Chief Executive Officer from January 1997 to October 2000, and was a member of the board of directors at Anesta Corporation, a publicly traded pharmaceutical company, until it was acquired by Cephalon, Inc., a publicly traded biopharmaceutical company. Mr. King received an M.B.A. from the University of Kansas and a B.A. in chemistry from McPherson College. James V. Cassella, Ph.D. has served as our Senior Vice President, Research and Development since June 2004. From April 1989 to April 2004, Dr. Cassella held various management positions at Neurogen Corporation, a publicly traded biotechnology company, including Senior Vice President of Clinical Research and Development from January 2003 to June 2004. Prior to Neurogen, Dr. Cassella was Assistant Professor of Neuroscience at Oberlin College. Dr. Cassella received a Ph.D. in physiological psychology from Dartmouth College, completed a 40 Table of Contents postdoctoral fellowship in the Department of Psychiatry at the Yale University School of Medicine and received a B.A. in psychology from the University of New Haven. August J. Moretti has served as our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since February 2005 and as our Secretary since December 2005. From August 2004 to February 2005, Mr. Moretti was our part time Chief Financial Officer. From January 2001 to January 2005, Mr. Moretti served as Chief Financial Officer and General Counsel at Alavita, Inc. (formerly known as SurroMed, Inc.), a biotechnology company. From January 1982 to December 2000, Mr. Moretti was a member of Heller Ehrman White & McAuliffe LLP, an international law firm. Mr. Moretti received a J.D. from Harvard Law School and a B.A. in economics from Princeton University. Anthony G. Tebbutt has served as our Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Business Development since March 2007. From September 1996 to October 2006, Mr. Tebbutt served as Senior Vice President and President at UCB Pharma and from 1983 to 1995 Mr. Tebbut served in various VP positions in New Product Planning and Marketing for Syntex Laboratories. Prior to Syntex, Mr. Tebbutt was also Marketing Manager for Eli Lilly Canada, Inc. from 1974 to 1983. Mr. Tebbutt is on the Board of Directors of the Biotechnology Industry Organization. Mr. Tebbutt holds an M.B.A. from Stanford Graduate School of Business and a B.S. from Santa Clara University. Jeffrey S. Williams has served as our Senior Vice President, Operations and Manufacturing since March 2007 and as our Senior Vice President, Corporate and Business Development from March 2004 to March 2007. From September 2001 to February 2004, Mr. Williams served as Vice President, Corporate Development at Scion Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a biopharmaceutical company. From March 2001 to August 2001, Mr. Williams served as Vice President, Corporate Development and Strategy at EmerGen, Inc., a biopharmaceutical company. From December 1996 to February 2001, Mr. Williams held various executive positions at Anesta Corporation. Mr. Williams received an M.S. in management from the M.I.T. Sloan School of Management and a B.A. in economics from Brigham Young University. Joseph L. Baker has served as our Vice President, Commercial Manufacturing and Global Supply Chain since November 2006. From 1999 to 2006, Mr. Baker was General Manager for Watson Laboratories, Inc., where he was responsible for all activities for the Salt Lake City manufacturing facility. He was previously Director, Oral Product R&D and Director, Operations Technical Services for Theratech, Inc. from 1995 to 1999. Prior to Watson Laboratories and Theratech, Mr. Baker held various management and technical positions with Lohmann Therapy Systems from 1993 to 1995 and Lederle Laboratories from 1974 to 1993. Mr. Baker holds an undergraduate degree in Natural Sciences, with a concentration in chemistry, from Thomas A. Edison College. William C. Houghton, M.D. has served as our Vice President, Clinical and Regulatory Affairs since November 2005. From June 2005 to November 2005, Dr. Houghton served as Vice President of Clinical Development at Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a pharmaceutical company. From August 1998 to June 2005, Dr. Houghton held various management positions, including Chief Operating Officer from August 1998 to May 2002, at Orphan Medical, Inc., a publicly traded pharmaceutical company, until it was acquired by Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. From 1995 to 1998, Dr. Houghton was Chief Scientific Officer of Iotek, Inc., a biomedical company. Dr. Houghton received an M.D. from Sydney University. Dr. Houghton completed a fellowship at Sydney University in anesthesia in 1971 and practiced full time in clinical critical care medicine and anesthesiology until joining the pharmaceutical industry in 1984. Emily Lee Kelley has served as our Vice President, Human Resources since October 2002. From October 2001 to October 2002, Ms. Kelley provided human resources consulting services to us and Versicor, Inc., a majority owned subsidiary of Sepracor Inc., a publicly traded pharmaceutical company. From 1995 to 2001, Ms. Kelley served as Vice President of Human Resources, Finance and Operations at Affymax Research Institute, a pharmaceutical company, and oversaw human resource matters for Maxygen, Inc., a publicly traded biotechnology company. Ms. Kelley received a B.S. in organizational behavior and industrial relations from the University of California, Berkeley. William L. Leschensky, M.D. has served as our Vice President, Intellectual Property since November 2005. From December 2004 to October 2005, he was our Senior Director, Intellectual Property. From May 2000 to December 2004, Dr. Leschensky was in-house intellectual property counsel at Alavita, Inc., and from September 41 Table of Contents 1992 to May 2000, Dr. Leschensky was an intellectual property attorney at the law firms of Fish & Neave LLP and Morrison & Foerster LLP. Dr. Leschensky received an M.D. from the University of Illinois, a J.D. from Harvard Law School and a B.S. in biochemistry from Iowa State University. Michael J. Taylor, Ph.D.,DABT has served as our Vice President, Preclinical Development since August 2006. From January 2005 to August 2006, Dr. Taylor was Sr. Director, Preclinical and Clinical Development Sciences for Protein Design Labs, Inc. From April 2000 to January 2005, Dr. Taylor was Vice President, Non-Clinical Research and Development and Executive Director, Drug Safety and Evaluation for DURECT Corporation. From 1996 to 2000, Dr. Taylor was Toxicology Department Head for the Urology and CNS Division of Roche Biosciences. Dr. Taylor is a board certified toxicologist and holds Ph.D. and M.S. degrees in toxicology from Utah State University. Samuel D. Colella has served as a member of our board of directors since September 2002. In 1999, Mr. Colella co-founded Versant Ventures, a venture capital firm, and has served as a managing member since its formation. Prior to founding Versant Ventures, Mr. Colella has served as general partner of Institutional Venture Partners, a venture capital firm, since 1984. Mr. Colella is a member of the board of directors of Symyx Technologies, Inc., a publicly traded research technology company, Genomic Health, Inc., a publicly traded molecular diagnostics company, Thermage, Inc., a publicly traded aesthetic medicine company, and various private companies. Mr. Colella received an M.B.A. from Stanford University and a B.S. in business and engineering from the University of Pittsburgh. Alan D. Frazier has served as a member of our board of directors since September 2002. In 1991, Mr. Frazier founded Frazier Healthcare Ventures, a venture capital firm, and has served as the managing principal since its inception. From 1983 to 1991, Mr. Frazier served as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of Immunex Corporation, a publicly traded biopharmaceutical company. From 1980 to 1983, Mr. Frazier was a principal in the Audit Department of Arthur Young & Company, which is now Ernst & Young LLP. Mr. Frazier is a member of the board of directors of Cadence Pharmaceuticals, a publicly traded pharmaceutical company, and various private companies. Mr. Frazier received a B.A. in economics from the University of Washington. Ernest Mario, Ph.D. has served as a member of our board of directors since September 2001. Since April 2003, Dr. Mario has served as Chairman of the Board at Reliant Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a privately held pharmaceutical company. From April 2003 to January 2007, Dr. Mario also served as Reliant’s Chief Executive Officer. Prior to joining Reliant, Dr. Mario was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of IntraBiotics Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a biopharmaceutical company, and its predecessor Apothogen, Inc., from January 2002 until April 2003. Dr. Mario was the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer at ALZA Corporation from 1997 to 2001 and was Co-Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of ALZA from 1993 to 1997. Dr. Mario is a director of Maxygen, Inc., Boston Scientific Corporation, a publicly traded medical device company, and the Chairman of the Board of Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc., a publicly traded drug development and drug discovery services company. Dr. Mario received a Ph.D. and an M.S. in physical sciences from the University of Rhode Island and a B.S. in pharmacy from Rutgers University. Deepika R. Pakianathan, Ph.D. has served as a member of our board of directors since November 2004. Since 2001, Dr. Pakianathan has served as a general partner at Delphi Ventures, a venture capital firm focusing on healthcare investments. From 1998 to 2001, Dr. Pakianathan was a senior biotechnology banker at JP Morgan. Prior to joining JP Morgan, Dr. Pakianathan was a research analyst at Genesis Merchant Group, a private investment partnership, from 1997 to 1998 and a post-doctoral scientist at Genentech, Inc., a publicly traded biotechnology company, from 1993 to 1997. Dr. Pakianathan is a director of various private healthcare companies. Dr. Pakianathan received a Ph.D. in immunology and an M.S. in biology from Wake Forest University, and an M.Sc. in biophysics and a B.Sc from the University of Bombay. J. Leighton Read, M.D. has served as a member of our board of directors since November 2004. Since 2001, Dr. Read has served as a general partner of Alloy Ventures, a venture capital firm. Dr. Read founded Aviron, a biopharmaceutical company, and served as its Chief Executive Officer until 1999. In 1989, Dr. Read co-founded Affymax NV, a biopharmaceutical company. Dr. Read is a member of the board of directors of various private companies. Dr. Read has received several awards for co-inventing the technology underlying the Affymetrix 42 Table of Contents GeneChip. Dr. Read received an M.D. from the University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio and a B.S. in psychology and biology from Rice University. Gordon Ringold, Ph.D. has served as a member of our board of directors since June 2001. Since March 2000, Dr. Ringold has served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Alavita, Inc. From March 1995 to February 2000, Dr. Ringold served as Chief Executive Officer and Scientific Director of Affymax Research Institute where he managed the development of novel technologies to accelerate the pace of drug discovery. Dr. Ringold is also a member of the board of directors of Maxygen, Inc. and Oxonica plc, a publicly traded nanotechnology company. Dr. Ringold received a Ph.D. in microbiology from University of California, San Francisco in the laboratory of Dr. Harold Varmus before joining the Stanford University School of Medicine, Department of Pharmacology. Dr. Ringold also received a B.S. in biology from the University of California, Santa Cruz. Isaac Stein has served as a member of our board of directors since June 2001. Since November 1982, Mr. Stein has been President of Waverley Associates, Inc., a private investment firm. He is also the emeritus Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Stanford University and is the Chairman of the board of directors of Maxygen, Inc. Mr. Stein is also a director of American Balanced Fund, Inc. and The Income Fund of America, Inc., each a publicly traded investment company. Mr. Stein received an M.B.A. and J.D. from Stanford University and a B.A. in mathematical economics from Colgate University. Alejandro A. Zaffaroni, M.D. has served as a member of our board of directors since December 2001. Since June 1984, Dr. Zaffaroni has been a practicing ophthalmologist. Dr. Zaffaroni is a Fellow of the American College of Surgeons and American Academy of Ophthalmology and is an Associate Clinical Professor at the University of California, San Francisco Medical School. Dr. Zaffaroni received an M.D. from the University of California, Davis and completed his residency in ophthalmology at the University of California, San Francisco. Dr. Zaffaroni also received a B.A. in Spanish literature from the University of California, Berkeley. Our officers are appointed by and serve at the discretion of our board of directors. There are no family relationships between our directors and officers. 