Risk Factors Related to Our Corporate Governance Our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws contain provisions that could discourage another company from acquiring us and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our current board of directors. These provisions include: • providing for a classified board of directors with staggered terms, • providing for the class B special voting stock which will be voted as directed by the Onex entities, • providing for multi-vote shares of common stock which, upon exchange of LP exchangeable units, will be owned by the Onex entities, • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings, and • the authority of the board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 20 million shares of preferred stock with such terms as the Board of Directors may determine and an additional 54 million shares of common stock. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange rules and, as a result, qualify for, and intend to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Because the Onex entities own more than 50% of our combined voting power, we are deemed a “controlled company” under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange, or the NYSE. As a result, we qualify for, and rely upon, the “controlled company” exception to the board of directors and committee composition requirements 54 Table of Contents under the rules of the NYSE. Pursuant to this exception, we are exempt from rules that would otherwise require that our board of directors be comprised of a majority of “independent directors,” and that our compensation committee and corporate governance and nominating committee be comprised solely of “independent directors” (as defined under the rules of the NYSE), so long as the Onex entities continue to own more than 50% of our combined voting power. Our Board of Directors is comprised of six persons, of which one is a representative from Onex and two are executive officers and, therefore, not “independent.” ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 