Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in shares of our common stock involves various risks. Before deciding to invest in our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the items included as exhibits. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed by any of the following risks or by other risks that have not been identified or that we may believe are immaterial or unlikely. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. 21 Our primary market area depends substantially on the gaming industry, and a downturn in that industry could hurt our business and our prospects. Our business is concentrated in the Lawrenceburg, Indiana area. Lawrenceburg is the site of a riverboat casino that opened in 1996. The economy of the Lawrenceburg metropolitan area significantly depends on services and industries related to gaming and tourism. Any event that negatively and materially impacts the gaming and tourism industry will adversely impact the Lawrenceburg economy. Gaming revenue is vulnerable to fluctuations in the national economy. There has been a prolonged downturn in the national economy, however, its impact on Lawrenceburg and its gaming industry has not been as significant as in other parts of the country. Tax revenue from the gaming industry has decreased over the last year, but not to the extent that it has affected civil services or other areas. A continued deterioration in economic conditions generally, and a slowdown in gaming and tourism activities in particular, could result in the following consequences, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects and expose us to a greater risk of loss: • Loan delinquencies may increase; • Problem assets and foreclosures may increase; • Demand for our products and services may decline; and • Collateral for loans made by us may decline in value, reducing the amount of money that our customers may borrow against the collateral, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our loans. An expansion of permissible gaming activities in other states, particularly in Kentucky and/or Ohio, may lead to a decline in gaming revenue in Lawrenceburg, Indiana, which could hurt our business and our prospects. Lawrenceburg, Indiana competes with other areas of the country for gaming revenue, and it is possible that the expansion of gaming operations in other states, as a result of changes in laws or otherwise, could significantly reduce gaming revenue in the Lawrenceburg area. In 2009, a vote in the State of Ohio approved casino gaming in several cities in the state, and the casinos are expected to open in 2012. The establishment of casino gaming in Ohio could have a substantial adverse effect on gaming revenue in Lawrenceburg which would adversely affect the Lawrenceburg economy and our business. We rely heavily on municipal deposits as a source of funds and a reduced level of those deposits may hurt our profits. Historically, municipal deposits, consisting primarily of tax revenues from the local river boat casino operations, have been a significant source of funds for our lending and investment activities. At June 30, 2010, $121.6 million, or 28.3% of our total deposits, consisted of municipal deposits. Municipal deposits are generally short-term deposits and are generally considered rate-sensitive instruments. Consequently, if our municipal deposits decrease to a level where we would need to resort to other sources of funds for our lending and investment activities, such as borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis, the interest expense associated with these other funding sources may be higher than the rates we pay on the municipal deposits, which would hurt our profits. Our income is subject to inherent risk. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income generated by our interest-earning assets (consisting primarily of loans and, to a lesser extent, securities) and the interest expense generated by our interest-bearing liabilities (consisting primarily of deposits and, to a lesser extent, wholesale borrowings). 22 The level of net interest income is a function of the average balance of our interest-earning assets, the average balance of our interest-bearing liabilities, and the spread between the yield on such assets and the cost of such liabilities. These factors are influenced by both the pricing and mix of our interest-earning assets and our interest-bearing liabilities which, in turn, are affected by such external factors as the local economy, competition for loans and deposits, the monetary policy of the Federal Open Market Committee of the Federal Reserve Board of Governors (the “FOMC”) and market interest rates. The cost of our deposits and short-term wholesale borrowings is largely based on short-term interest rates, the level of which is driven by the FOMC. However, the yields on our loans and securities are typically based on intermediate-term or long-term interest rates, which are set by the market and generally vary daily. The level of net interest income is therefore influenced by movements in such interest rates, and the pace at which such movements occur. If the interest rates on our interest-bearing liabilities increase at a faster pace than the interest rates on our interest-earning assets, the result could be a reduction in net interest income and with it, a reduction in our earnings. Our net interest income and earnings would be similarly impacted were the interest rates on its interest-earning assets to decline more quickly than the interest rates on our interest-bearing liabilities. In addition, such changes in interest rates could affect our ability to originate loans and attract and retain deposits, the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, and the average life of our loan and securities portfolios. Changes in interest rates could also have an effect on the slope of the yield curve. A flat to inverted yield curve could cause our net interest income and net interest margin to contract, which could have a material adverse effect on our net income and cash flows and the value of our assets. Changes in interest rates particularly affect the value of our securities portfolio. Generally, the value of fixed-rate securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of equity, net of tax. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale resulting from increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. In addition, we invest in callable securities that expose us to reinvestment risk, particularly during periods of falling market interest rates when issuers of callable securities tend to call or redeem their securities. Reinvestment risk is the risk that we may have to reinvest the proceeds from called securities at lower rates of return than the rates earned on the called securities. Our increased emphasis on multi-family residential and nonresidential real estate and land lending may expose us to increased lending risks. At June 30, 2010, $129.7 million, or 41.2%, of our loan portfolio consisted of multi-family residential and nonresidential real estate and land loans, compared to $119.1 million or 43.0% of our loan portfolio at June 30, 2009. We have grown our loan portfolio in recent years, particularly with respect to multi-family residential and nonresidential real estate and land loans and intend to continue to emphasize these types of lending. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. In addition, since such loans generally entail greater credit risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans, we may need to increase our allowance for loan losses in the future to account for the likely increase in probable incurred credit losses associated with the growth of such loans. Also, many of our multi-family residential and nonresidential real estate and land borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. At June 30, 2010, our largest multi-family residential, nonresidential real estate, or land lending relationship was a $7.2 million multi-family residential real estate loan relationship. This loan relationship was within our maximum lending limit to one borrower at June 30, 2010. 23 Strong competition within our market areas could hurt our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and at times has forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to grow loans and deposits. As of June 30, 2009, the most recent date for which information is available, we held 37.48% of the deposits in Dearborn County. Competition also makes it more difficult to hire and retain experienced employees. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market areas. Recently enacted legislative reforms and future regulatory reforms required by such legislation could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act into law. The Dodd-Frank Act will have a broad impact on the financial services industry, including significant regulatory and compliance changes. Many of the requirements called for in the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented over time and most will be subject to implementing regulations over the course of several years. Given the uncertainty associated with the manner in which the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented by the various regulatory agencies and through regulations, the full extent of the impact such requirements will have on our operations is unclear. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are expected to have a near term impact on us. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act: · eliminates, effective one year after the date of enactment, the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse impact on our interest expense; · broadens the base for FDIC insurance assessments. Assessments will now be based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution; · permanently increases the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, retroactive to January 1, 2009, and non-interest bearing transaction accounts have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2013; · requires publicly traded companies like us to give shareholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called ‘‘golden parachute’’ payments in certain circumstances; · authorizes the SEC to promulgate rules that would allow stockholders to nominate their own candidates using a company’s proxy materials, and the SEC has recently promulgated such rules; · directs the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives (regardless of whether a company is publicly traded or not); · creates a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit ‘‘unfair, deceptive or abusive’’ acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Institutions with $10 billion or less in assets, such as the Bank, will continued to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws by their primary bank regulators; and · weakens the federal preemption rules that have been applicable for national banks and federal savings associations, and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws. 24 In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act restructures the existing regulatory regime for FDIC-insured depository institutions. The Office of Thrift Supervision (the “OTS”) will be merged into the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the “OCC”) over a one year transition period (subject to a possible six month extension by the Secretary of the Treasury). While our federal savings association charter is preserved, federal thrifts will be regulated by the OCC, along with national banks and federal branches and agencies of foreign banks. The Federal Reserve Board will continue to supervise all bank holding companies and will assume jurisdiction over savings and loan holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act codifies the Federal Reserve Board’s existing “source of strength” policy that holding companies act as a source of strength to their insured institution subsidiaries by providing capital, liquidity and other support in times of distress. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve Board “may not” object to dividend waivers by mutual savings and loan holding companies (i) if it would not be detrimental to safety and soundness, (ii) the board of directors of the mutual holding company determines that the waiver is consistent with its fiduciary duties and (iii) the mutual holding company had been formed, engaged in a minority stock offering and waived dividends prior to December 1, 2009. Nevertheless, it remains to be seen whether the Federal Reserve Board objects to dividend waivers as it has done in the past. If United Community MHC could not waive the payment of dividends by United Community Bancorp (as it has done in the past), United Community Bancorp may have toe reduce the rate of the dividends it pays to its shareholders. While it is difficult to predict at this time what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the related yet to be written implementing rules and regulations will have on us, we expect that, at a minimum, our operating and compliance costs will increase, and our interest expense could increase, as a result of these new rules and regulations. We are subject to certain risks in connection with growth strategy that included the recent acquisition of three branch offices of Integra Bank. On June 4, 2010, we acquired certain assets and liabilities of three branch offices of Integra Bank, which contributed significantly to our growth over the past year. It is possible that we could acquire other financial institutions, financial service providers, or branches of banks in the future. However, our ability to engage in future mergers and acquisitions depends on our ability to identify suitable merger partners and acquisition opportunities, our ability to finance and complete such transactions on acceptable terms and at acceptable prices, and our ability to receive the necessary regulatory and, where required, shareholder approvals. Acquisitions, such as our recent Integra Bank branch acquisition, involve a number of risks and challenges, including: • Our ability to integrate the branches and operations we acquire, and the internal controls and regulatory functions into our current operations; • The diversion of management’s attention from existing operations; • Our ability to limit the outflow of deposits held by our new customers in the acquired branches and to successfully retain and manage the loans we acquire; • Our ability to attract new deposits, and to generate new interest-earning assets, in geographic areas we have not previously served; • Our success in deploying any cash received in a transaction into assets bearing sufficiently high yields without incurring unacceptable credit or interest rate risk; • Our ability to control the incremental non-interest expense from the acquired branches in a manner that enables us to maintain a favorable overall efficiency ratio; • Our ability to retain and attract the appropriate personnel to staff the acquired branches and conduct any acquired operations; 25 • Our ability to earn acceptable levels of interest and non-interest income, including fee income, from the acquired branches; and • Our ability to address an increase in working capital requirements; and As with any acquisition involving a financial institution, particularly one involving the transfer of a large number of bank branches as in our Integra acquisition, there may be business and service changes and disruptions that result in the loss of customers or cause customers to close their accounts and move their business to competing financial institutions. Integrating acquired branches is an operation of substantial size and expense, and may be affected by general market and economic conditions or government actions affecting the financial industry The recent economic recession could result in increases in our level of non-performing loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In recent periods, there has been a decline in the housing and real estate markets and the national economy has recently experienced a recession. Housing market conditions have deteriorated nationally as evidenced by reduced levels of sales, increasing inventories of houses on the market, declining house prices and an increase in the length of time houses remain on the market. No assurance can be given that these conditions will improve or will not worsen in the near term. Concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the mortgage market and a declining real estate market have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and markets going forward. This turbulence in the markets also has been largely attributable to the fallout associated with a deteriorating market for subprime mortgage loans and securities backed by such loans. Dramatic declines in the housing market, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, resulted in significant asset write-downs by financial institutions, which have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with other institutions and, in some cases, to fail. These developments also have contributed to a substantial decrease in both lending activities by banks and other financial institutions and activity in the secondary residential mortgage loan market. If these conditions do not improve or worsen, they could adversely affect our results of operations. United Community MHC’s majority control of United Community Bancorp’s common stock enables it to exercise voting control over most matters put to a vote of stockholders including preventing sale or merger transactions or a second-step conversion transaction you may find advantageous. United Community MHC owns a majority of United Community Bancorp’s common stock and, through its board of directors, exercises voting control over most matters put to a vote of stockholders. The same directors and officers who manage United Community Bancorp and United Community Bank also manage United Community MHC. As a federally chartered mutual holding company, the board of directors of United Community MHC must ensure that the interests of depositors of United Community Bank are represented and considered in matters put to a vote of stockholders of United Community Bancorp. Therefore, the votes cast by United Community MHC may not be in your personal best interests as a stockholder. For example, United Community MHC may exercise its voting control to defeat a stockholder nominee for election to the board of directors of United Community Bancorp. In addition, stockholders are not able to force a merger or second-step conversion transaction without the consent of United Community MHC. Some stockholders may desire a sale or merger transaction, since stockholders typically receive a premium for their shares, or a second-step conversion transaction, since fully converted institutions tend to trade at higher multiples than mutual holding companies. OTS policy on remutualization transactions could prohibit acquisition of United Community Bancorp, which may adversely affect our stock price. Current OTS regulations permit a mutual holding company to be acquired by a mutual institution in a remutualization transaction. The possibility of a remutualization transaction has resulted in a degree of takeover speculation for mutual holding companies that is reflected in the per share price of mutual holding companies’ common stock. However, the OTS has issued a policy statement indicating that it views remutualization transactions as raising significant issues concerning disparate treatment of minority stockholders and mutual members of the target entity and raising issues concerning the effect on the mutual members of the acquiring entity. Under certain circumstances, the OTS intends to give these issues special scrutiny and reject applications providing for the remutualization of a mutual holding company unless the applicant can clearly demonstrate that the OTS’s concerns are not warranted in the particular case. Should the OTS prohibit or otherwise restrict these transactions in the future, our per share stock price may be adversely affected. 26 Anti-takeover provisions in our charter restrict the accumulation of United Community Bancorp’s common stock, which may adversely affect our stock price. United Community Bancorp’s charter provides that, for a period of five years from the date of the reorganization, no person, other than United Community MHC, may acquire directly or indirectly the beneficial ownership of more than 10.0% of any class of any equity security of United Community Bancorp. In the event a person acquires shares in violation of this charter provision, all shares beneficially owned by such person in excess of 10.0% will be considered “excess shares” and will not be counted as shares entitled to vote or counted as voting shares in connection with any matters submitted to the stockholders for a vote. This provision makes it more difficult and less attractive for stockholders to acquire a significant amount of our common stock, which may adversely affect our stock price. OTS regulations may restrict United Community Bank’s ability to make capital distributions, which could limit our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. United Community Bank, our wholly-owned subsidiary, is the primary source of cash with which we pay the cash dividend on our common stock. OTS regulations impose limitations upon all capital distributions by a savings institution, including cash dividends. Under the regulations, an application to and prior approval of the OTS is required prior to any capital distribution if the institution does not meet the criteria for “expedited treatment” of applications under OTS regulations (i.e., generally, examination and Community Reinvestment Act ratings in the two top categories), the total capital distributions for the calendar year exceed net income for that year plus the amount of retained net income for the preceding two years, the institution would be undercapitalized following the distribution or the distribution would otherwise be contrary to a statute, regulation or agreement with the OTS. If an application is not required, the institution must still provide prior notice to the OTS of the capital distribution if, like United Community Bank, it is a subsidiary of a holding company. In the event United Community Bank’s capital falls below its regulatory requirements or the OTS notifies it that it is in need of increased supervision, United Community Bank’s ability to make capital distributions, including cash dividends, could be restricted, thereby eliminating the primary source of cash with which we pay our dividend to our shareholders. Our mutual holding company structure limits our ability to raise additional equity capital. Even though we are already well capitalized, our mutual holding company structure limits our ability to raise additional equity capital without undertaking a second-step conversion transaction because we cannot issue stock in an amount that would cause United Community MHC to own less than a majority of our outstanding shares. Currently, United Community MHC owns approximately 59% of our outstanding shares. In addition, any stock issuance by us must be approved by the OTS and must be structured in a manner similar to a mutual to stock conversion, including the stock purchase priorities accorded to members of the mutual holding company, unless otherwise approved by the Office of Thrift Supervision. These requirements limit our ability to control the timing and structure of a stock offering. Our asset valuation may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to asset valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. We must use estimates, assumptions, and judgments when financial assets and liabilities are measured and reported at fair value. Assets and liabilities carried at fair value inherently result in a higher degree of financial statement volatility. Fair values and the information used to record valuation adjustments for certain assets and liabilities are based on quoted market prices and/or other observable inputs provided by independent third-party sources, when available. When such third-party information is not available, we estimate fair value primarily by using cash flows and other financial modeling techniques utilizing assumptions such as credit quality, liquidity, interest rates and other relevant inputs. Changes in underlying factors, assumptions, or estimates in any of these areas could materially impact our future financial condition and results of operations. 27 During periods of market disruption, including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of our assets if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the current financial environment. In such cases, certain asset valuations may require more subjectivity and management judgment. As such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of assets as reported within our consolidated financial statements, and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. UCB relies on other companies to provide key components of its business infrastructure. Third party vendors provide key components of United Community Bancorp’s business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access and fund distribution. While United Community Bancorp has selected these third party vendors carefully, its does not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including those which result from their failure to provide services for any reason or their poor performance of services, could adversely affect United Community Bancorp’s ability to deliver products and services to its customers and otherwise to conduct its business. Replacing these third party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 28 