Item 1A. Risk Factors Some of the statements made in this report are forward-looking statements that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Sections 27A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. For such statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based upon our current expectations and projections about future events. When used in this report, the words “believe,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “estimate,” “expect” and similar expressions, or the negative of such words and expressions, are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain such words or expressions. The forward-looking statements in this report are primarily located in the material set forth under the headings “Business” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” but are found in other locations as well. These forward-looking statements generally relate to our plans, objectives and expectations for future operations and are based upon management’s current estimates and projections of future results or trends. Although we believe that our plans and objectives reflected in or suggested by these forward-looking statements are reasonable, we may not achieve these plans or objectives. You should read this report completely and with the understanding that actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. We will not update forward-looking statements even though our situation may change in the future. Specific factors that might cause actual results to differ from our expectations or may affect the value of the common stock, include, but are not limited to: • our inability to compete successfully with current or future competitors within our industry; • our inability to retain members of our executive management or other key employees; 12 Table of Contents • the termination or impairment of our relationships with key network affiliates; • the termination or impairment of our advertiser relationships; • our inability to manage our growth effectively; • our inability to expand successfully into international markets; • potential adverse affects of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and results of hedging transactions, if any; • our inability to obtain additional financing, if required; and • the occurrence of unforeseen litigation. Other factors that could cause actual results to differ from those implied by the forward-looking statements in this report are more fully described below. Our past operating results may not be indicative of our future performance and we may be unable to continue operating successfully in Australia or to establish successful operations in Canada. Our wholly-owned subsidiary, The Australia Traffic Network Pty Limited, introduced its services in Australia in 1997. Through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Canada Traffic Network ULC, we began delivering radio traffic reports to radio stations in Canada in December 2005 and generating revenue from our Canadian operations in January 2006. Although certain members of management have experience with international markets, we have a limited history of providing our services in Australia and no prior history of providing our services outside of Australia. See “Risk Factors— We intend to expand into additional international markets and our inexperience in those markets increases the risk that our international expansion efforts will not be successful.” The success of any previous services in Australia may not be indicative of the results of our efforts to provide continued or additional services in Australia or to provide our services in Canada or in other markets. The successful operation of our services will require a certain level of continued capital expenditures and operating expenditures which we are committed to undertaking. There can be no assurance that we will be able to operate and expand our business as contemplated. We have incurred operating losses in connection with the introduction of radio news reports in Australia and we may be unable to conduct our expanded operations profitably. We recently began providing radio news reports to certain network affiliate radio stations in Australia which resulted in operating losses of approximately $1.5 million for the year ended June 30, 2006. There can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient revenue to offset the additional operating expenses associated with providing news information reporting services, which was approximately $3.6 million for the year ended June 30, 2006 and is, based on contracts already in place, expected to be higher in fiscal year 2007. 13 Table of Contents We have limited experience in delivering news information reporting services and in the television broadcast market which may hinder our ability to perform these services and expand into the television market successfully. Although providing radio news reports and TV reports is similar to providing radio traffic reports, we have limited experience in delivering news information reporting services and in the television broadcast market. Because our provision of radio news reports and TV reports is relatively untested, there is no assurance that these information reports will be accepted into the marketplace of radio and television stations. Additional radio and television stations may not subscribe to receive our radio news reports and TV reports and the stations currently subscribing for these services may not continue to subscribe after their existing contracts expire. If we are unable to expand our radio news and TV networks or retain the current subscribers of radio news reports and TV reports, we may not accumulate sufficient levels of commercial airtime inventory from these services to justify continuing to provide them. Even if we are able to expand our provision of radio news reports and TV reports and accumulate increasing amounts of commercial airtime inventory, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue from the sale of commercial airtime inventory attributable to the these services to offset the up-front costs incurred in introducing them. In either case, we would continue to incur net losses, our financial condition may suffer and our stock price may decline. We have incurred operating losses in connection with our expansion of operations into Canada and may be unable to operate profitably in Canada. In addition to our Australian business expansion, we are currently in the process of expanding operations to serve our Canadian markets. In connection with our expansion into Canada, we have incurred net losses of approximately $2.6 million for the year ended June 30, 2006 and $160,000 for the period from May 16, 2005 (inception) through June 30, 2005. We expect losses to continue for the foreseeable future as our expenses significantly increase in connection with commencing and developing our service offerings, building our infrastructure and developing our base of advertisers. Since we only began providing service to all of our affiliates and markets commencing on April 12, 2006, in the future our operating expenses, on an annual basis, will be significantly higher than they were for the year ended June 30, 2006. If our Canadian revenue grows more slowly than we anticipate, or if our operating expenses are higher than we expect, we may not be able to achieve, sustain or increase profitability. Although our provision of radio traffic reports in Australia has historically been profitable we may be unable to replicate such profitable operations in Canada or in any other country in which we may introduce operations, due to cultural differences, regulatory restrictions, economic instability, or otherwise. If we are unable to operate profitably in Canada, we may be forced to abandon Canadian operations without recovering the up-front costs incurred in our expansion efforts, in which case our financial condition will suffer and our stock price may decline. 14 Table of Contents Our financial success depends on our ability to compete successfully in obtaining contracts with radio and television stations and we may be unable to acquire or renew such contracts. The success of our business is largely dependent on our ability to maintain and acquire contracts with radio and television stations (“Affiliate Contracts”) in Australia, Canada and any other market into which we may expand our operations in the future. We face various sources of competition in providing our information reporting services. We believe that single market operators and groups of stations (whether or not under common ownership) that prepare and deliver their own traffic and news reports comprise our primary competition. Consolidation in the radio and television markets may create additional opportunities and economies of scale for large radio and/or television groups to provide their own services which would pose greater competition for us. In addition to providers of broadcast reports, there are also alternative means of compiling traffic information and delivering such information to the public. Certain governmental agencies, including some state and local departments of transportation, generate selected traffic flow data through strategically positioned cameras that monitor traffic flow, which could be used by our competitors and accessed by consumers. We may also face future competition from providers of information reporting services that utilize new technologies to which we may not have access, both for the gathering and delivery of information. Such new technologies may reduce the demand for our services or render our services obsolete. Our current and potential competitors may offer alternative types of information services and may have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. There can be no assurance that our business will not be adversely affected by current or increased competition for acquiring Affiliate Contracts and providing information services in the markets in which we operate. Due to the short term nature of our Affiliate Contracts, which generally range from one to three years, and because we deliver information reports to several of our network affiliates pursuant to unwritten arrangements or expired agreements that may be construed as cancelable at will, we are vulnerable at all times to competition from other providers of information reporting services and from stations that may elect to prepare and deliver their own information reports. In that regard, if we are unable to maintain a significant number of our network affiliates, either due to non-renewal of our Affiliate Contracts upon expiration or termination of unwritten arrangements with network affiliates, our inventory of commercial airtime inventory would decrease significantly, which in turn would likely lead to significant declines in revenues. Our financial success depends on our ability to compete successfully in selling commercial airtime inventory to advertisers and we may be unable to sell such inventory. Our business success is dependent on our ability to sell our commercial airtime inventory received from our network affiliates in exchange for our information reporting services. Selling advertising is highly competitive. We compete for advertising dollars with radio and television stations, including our network affiliates, as well as with other 15 Table of Contents media, including local print and other forms of communications media including newspapers, magazines, outdoor advertising, transit advertising, Internet advertising, direct response advertising, yellow page directories and point-of-sale advertising, among others. As a result of advertising competition, we experience and expect to continue to experience increased price competition, which could result in a decline in our revenue for radio and television advertising, adversely affecting the results of our operations and negatively impacting our profits and the price of our common stock. In addition, our overall business is subject to competition from existing or future entities that provide information reporting services in exchange for network-based advertising spots using a business model that is similar to ours. Such a competitor currently exists in Canada, Skywords Inc., operating primarily in Toronto but also operating in other Canadian markets in which we provide our services. In the face of such competition, whether in Australia, Canada or any other market in which we introduce our services, we may not be able to provide information reporting services that are superior to our competitors. Even if we provide superior services, the presence of a competing service provider may lead to confusion and provide advertisers with additional leverage in negotiating the sale terms of our commercial airtime inventory. Such effects of competition may adversely affect our advertising revenue and results of operations and negatively impact our profits and the price of our common stock. Our ability to sell commercial advertising and generate revenue is subject to economic and industry fluctuations beyond our control. Because we generate substantially all of our revenues through the sale of commercial advertising, the success of our business is closely linked to the performance of the advertising industry. The advertising industry, in turn, tends to be affected by general economic conditions and is sensitive to the overall level of consumers’ disposable income within a given market. Although in each of the last five years industry-wide advertising revenues generated from Australian and Canadian markets have increased, we believe that a decline in general economic conditions within a market in which we operate could adversely affect advertising revenues generated from that market and, in turn, have an adverse effect on our profitability, operating results, financial conditions and the price of our stock. Potential consolidation of radio and television stations in the markets in which we operate and will operate in the future may result in reduction of our negotiating leverage for affiliate contracts and, subsequently, may increase costs and risk of loss with respect to our Affiliate Contracts. The continued financial success of our business is largely dependent upon our ability to maintain Affiliate Contracts with radio and television stations in Australia, Canada and any other market into which we may expand our operations in the future. If radio and television stations in the markets in which we operate consolidate, a broadcaster may determine that it is in its best interest to produce a product similar to ours internally and terminate our Affiliate Contract, subsequently eliminating our supply of commercial 16 Table of Contents airtime inventory from such broadcaster. In addition, consolidation in the industry will result in fewer station owners who may then be able to negotiate with increased leverage for affiliate contracts. Further, consolidation may result in a fewer number of Affiliate Contracts comprising a larger number of stations and constituting a greater percentage of our base of contracts. Subsequent to consolidation, losing one Affiliate Contract may have a much greater impact on our Company. Consolidation in the industry and its potential effects could result in a significant decline in our revenue or increase in our expenses. The loss of Austereo Pty Ltd. as one of our network affiliates in Australia would significantly decrease the amount of our commercial airtime inventory, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our stock price. Austereo Pty Ltd. (“Austereo”), one of our network affiliates, is the largest radio broadcaster in Australia and provides us with approximately 25% of the radio commercial airtime inventory we receive in exchange for radio traffic reports and radio news reports and other consideration. When sold to advertisers, this commercial airtime inventory accounts for a material amount of our Australian revenues. We have entered into an agreement with Austereo, effective July 1, 2006, pursuant to which we provide regularly-scheduled radio traffic reports to ten Australian radio stations operated by Austereo in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth through June 30, 2008. In addition, we have entered into an agreement with Austereo effective July 1, 2005 pursuant to which we are providing radio news reports to these same ten radio stations through June 30, 2008. If we are unable to retain Austereo as a network affiliate, the amount of our commercial airtime inventory would decrease significantly. As a result, we would likely experience corresponding decreases in revenues from commercial airtime inventory sales and profits from such sales. The loss of Corus Entertainment, Inc. as one of our network affiliates in Canada would significantly decrease the amount of our commercial airtime inventory in Canada, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our stock price. Corus Entertainment, Inc. (“Corus’), one of our Canadian network affiliates, is one of the largest radio broadcasters in Canada and comprises approximately 69% of our affiliate network stations in Canada. We have entered into a three year agreement governing our provision of radio traffic reports to these stations that commenced with respect to each station on the date we began providing services to such stations (which was between December 2005 and April 2006), however, either party can terminate the agreement after eighteen months by giving six months notice, effectively making the contract a two year agreement. If Corus were to cancel our agreement, and we were unable to replace their stations as network affiliates with comparable stations, the Company would have no network affiliates in several of its markets and would have a significantly reduced presence in terms of amount of commercial airtime inventory and audience delivery in the remaining markets. If this were to occur, it is likely that the Company would be perceived by investors as an “Australia only” company, and the Company’s stock price could decrease due to this perception. 17 Table of Contents Our business is subject to risks related to international operations. We conduct business globally and, as a result, face added expenses related to the engagement of legal, accounting and other experts in each country in which we currently operate or may operate in the future. In addition, our future results could be materially adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors including, among others, regulatory, social, political, or economic conditions in a specific country or region, trade protection measures and other regulatory requirements, government spending patterns and natural disasters. We are also exposed to risks associated with changes in the laws and policies that govern foreign investments in countries where we have operations as well as, to a lesser extent, changes in United States laws and regulations relating to foreign trade and investment. Such changes in laws, regulations and conditions could result in a significant increase in our expenses for regulatory compliance or require us to alter our operations. Our revenue may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Nearly all of our expenditures and revenue will be spent or derived outside of the United States. However, we report our financial condition and results of operations in United States dollars. As a result, fluctuations between the United States dollar and the currencies of the countries in which we operate will impact the amount of our revenues. For example, if the foreign currency of a country in which we derive revenue appreciates relative to the United States dollar, the fluctuation will result in a positive impact on the revenues that we report. However, if such foreign currency depreciates relative to the United States dollar, there will be a negative impact on the revenues we report due to such fluctuation. It is possible that the impact of currency fluctuations will result in a decrease in reported sales even though we have experienced an increase in sales when reported in the foreign currency. Conversely, the impact of currency fluctuations may result in an increase in reported sales despite declining sales when reported in the foreign currency. Foreign currency exchange rates in the markets in which we operate have been subject to substantial fluctuation. For example, the exchange rate from United States dollars to Australian dollars applicable to our income statement data for fiscal years 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003 are 0.7473, 0.7539, 0.7140, and 0.5850, respectively. Though we have not hedged our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate changes, we may choose to hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate changes in the future, but there is no guarantee such hedging, if undertaken, will be successful. We intend to expand into additional international markets and our inexperience in those markets increases the risk that our international expansion efforts will not be successful. We began delivering radio traffic reports to certain Canadian network affiliates in December 2005. We also intend to explore future opportunities to expand our operations into additional international markets as opportunities present themselves and as our 18 Table of Contents financial resources permit. Expansion into international markets requires significant management attention and financial resources, and our ability to provide radio traffic reports profitably in Australia may not be indicative of our results in Canada or in any other country in which we may attempt to expand. Certain members of our management have experience in operating a business similar to ours in Japan. In 1999, William L. Yde III, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Dale C. Arfman, our Treasurer and Secretary and Robert L. Johander, one of our directors, founded Nihon (Japan) Traffic Network, a Japanese entity unrelated to us, which operated a traffic reporting service in the Japanese market (“Japan Traffic Network”). Japan Traffic Network invested significant funds in starting up its Japanese operations and experienced a net loss of approximately $8 million dollars from its inception in 1999 until January 2002, after which Japan Traffic Network ceased its operations. Kenneth A. Casseri, President of Canadian Traffic Network ULC, and Gary O. Benson, another one of our directors, were also involved in Japan Traffic Network’s operations. The risks and obstacles Japan Traffic Network faced in introducing operations in Japan are indicative of the types of risks and obstacles we will face generally if and when we expand into additional international markets, including: • Challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences; • Increased labor costs as a result of the existence or prevalence of collective bargaining arrangements, prevailing compensation structures and other employment-related matters; • Legal, legislative and regulatory restrictions; • Foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the United States; • Economic instability and export restrictions; • Longer payment cycles in some countries; • Potentially adverse tax consequences; • Nationalization or seizure of private assets; and • Higher costs associated with doing business internationally. These risks and obstacles may prevent us from operating profitably in any international market into which we attempt to expand our operations. If we attempt to expand into additional international markets but are unable to do so successfully, such a failed attempt could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, negatively impact our business prospects, and the price of our stock could decline as a result. 19 Table of Contents If we fail to secure adequate financing in the future, our continued growth and financial performance will suffer. Our expansion into new Australian, Canadian and international markets and continued growth of our services will require significant additional capital resources. These future capital needs are difficult to predict. We may require additional capital in order to implement an expanded business model, to take advantage of opportunities, including strategic alliances and potential acquisitions, or to respond to changing business conditions and unanticipated competitive pressures. Moreover, our day-to-day operations require the use of sophisticated equipment and technology. The maintenance and replacement of such equipment requires significant expenditures. While we believe that the net proceeds of our IPO and the availability of financing under our line of credit will be sufficient to fund our operations for the next 12 months and into the foreseeable future, we may need to seek additional funds either by borrowing money or issuing additional equity in order to handle unforeseen contingencies or take advantage of new opportunities. We currently have no equity financing arrangements in place to raise additional funds or commitments in place for additional debt financing and such equity or debt financing may not be available when needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we are unable to obtain additional funds, then we may be unable to take advantage of new opportunities or take other actions that otherwise might be important to our business or prospects. If we fail to manage our growth effectively by investing in the necessary infrastructure, the quality of our products and services may suffer, negatively impacting our affiliate contracts. We have experienced, and continue to experience, rapid expansion of our business and operations, which has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management, operational, technical and financial infrastructure. Since March 2005, we have introduced radio news reports and expanded TV reports in Australia and commenced operations in seven Canadian markets. Continued growth will require continued investment in personnel, facilities, technology infrastructure, and financial and management systems and controls, especially if we expand our Canadian operations as currently contemplated. If we do not effectively manage our growth, the quality of our products and services could suffer, which could negatively affect our affiliate contracts and our relationships with network affiliates, potentially resulting in the termination of such contracts and the loss of commercial airtime inventory. Furthermore, this expansion could result in our expenses increasing faster than our revenue, causing our operating margins to be adversely affected. If we fail to expand into new markets, we may be unable to increase our revenue and expand our profits in the future. Our continued growth and expansion is dependent, in part, on our ability to establish relations with radio and television stations in new markets world-wide by developing new operations or acquiring existing operations. Although we do not currently have specific plans in place for expansion into additional international markets, our long-term objectives include expansion into additional international markets. However, there can be 20 Table of Contents no assurance that we will be able to identify and acquire operations or establish operations in new markets or that we will be able to finance such acquisitions or expansion in the future. There can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate successfully any acquired business or realize any operating efficiencies there from. Further, if we engage in any such strategic transaction, we may encounter unforeseen operating challenges and expenses that may require a significant amount of management time that otherwise would be devoted to running our operations, which may harm the quality of our services and products. We may be liable for our traffic information which may expose us to significant unforeseen litigation expenses. Consumers’ reliance on our traffic information could result in claims against us based on negligence or other legal theories. Users of our traffic information could claim to have suffered injuries or losses as a result of relying on our traffic information. In particular, consumers could bring claims against us based on route-selection advice. We may incur costs to defend ourselves against even baseless claims and our financial condition could be materially adversely affected if we are found liable for traffic information that we make available. Although we maintain general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. Any imposition of liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of insurance coverage could result in substantial costs. Aircraft operations involve risks that may not be covered by our insurance or may increase our operating costs. The operation of aircraft inherently involves a degree of risk. Hazards such as harsh weather, mechanical failures, pilot error, acts of terrorism, crashes, collisions and emergency safety landings are inherent to our business and may result in personal injury, loss of life, damage to property and equipment and suspension or reduction of operations, temporarily or indefinitely. These risks include injury to or death of personnel and damage to or loss of property. In addition, if one of our aircraft were to crash or be involved in an accident, we would be exposed to significant tort liability and substantial unforeseen expenses. Even when such hazards do not lead to injury, loss of life or damage to property and equipment, their occurrence can result in negative publicity regarding our company and our industry in the markets in which we operate. Harm to our public image may, in turn, adversely affect our ability to enter into new Affiliate Contracts or renew existing Affiliate Contracts, and to arrange for the sale of our commercial airtime inventory, any of which could negatively affect our results of operations. We attempt to protect ourselves against these losses and damage by carrying insurance, including general liability, aviation, workers’ compensation and property and casualty insurance. Our insurance coverage is subject to deductibles and maximum coverage amounts, and we do not carry insurance for all types of losses, including business interruption. We cannot assure you that our existing coverage will be sufficient or that in the future we will be able to maintain our existing coverage or that the premiums will not increase substantially. In addition, future terrorist activity, accidents or 21 Table of Contents other events could increase our insurance rates. The loss of our liability insurance coverage or inadequate coverage from our liability insurance could result in our exposure to substantial unforeseen expenses and subsequent reductions in our profit margins. In addition, we are subject to regulations and restrictions with regard to the operation of our aircraft. Violations of these regulations and restrictions could result in monetary penalties or the revocation of our air operating certificates. Although monetary penalties would have an impact on our results of operations if material in amount, the loss of our air operating certificates would result in temporary or permanent grounding of our aircraft, which would have a material adverse effect on our business operations and substantial loss of profits. The loss of the services of our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President or other key employees, or the failure to attract additional key individuals, would materially adversely affect our business. Our financial success is dependent to a significant degree upon the efforts of our current executive officers and other key employees. We have entered into employment agreements with Messrs. Yde, Arfman and Cody. However, there can be no assurance that these individuals will continue to provide services to us. A voluntary or involuntary termination of employment by Messrs. Yde, Arfman or Cody could have a material adverse effect on our business operations and negatively impact the price of our common stock. At present, we do not maintain key man life insurance policies for any of these individuals. Our success and viability is also dependent to a significant extent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in all areas of our business, especially management positions and the on-air broadcasters who become recognizable personalities for the stations on which they deliver information reports. Although our affiliate contracts generally prohibit stations from soliciting our employees for hire, there is no assurance that we will be able retain our most recognizable on-air broadcasters. Our employee relations and related labor costs may be impacted by collective bargaining arrangements, prevailing compensation structures and other employment-related matters. If we are unable to retain these broadcasters or attract replacements for them, our network affiliates may become dissatisfied with our delivery of information reports potentially resulting in the cancellation of Affiliate Contracts, a subsequent reduction in commercial airtime inventory and the loss of advertising revenue. Our broadcasts in Australia and Canada are subject to regulatory bodies whose rules and regulations may adversely affect our business. The ownership, operation and sale of radio and television stations in Australia and Canada are subject to the jurisdiction of the Australian Communications and Media Authority (the “ACMA”) and the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (the “CRTC”), respectively. Among other things, the ACMA and the CRTC adopt and implement regulations and policies that directly or indirectly affect the ownership, operations and sale of radio and television stations, and have the power to 22 Table of Contents impose penalties for violations of their rules. In addition, such violations may be a breach of our network affiliates’ contracts. Such regulations may adversely affect our business. We expect to be subject to similar regulations in other geographic markets we enter. We will be required to implement additional finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls in order to satisfy requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which will increase our costs and divert management’s time and attention. We recently became a public reporting company and are in a continuing process of establishing controls and procedures that will allow our management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal control over financial reporting when required to do so under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As a company with limited capital and human resources, we anticipate that more of management’s time and attention will be diverted from our business to ensure compliance with these regulatory requirements than would be the case with a company that has well established controls and procedures. This diversion of management’s time and attention may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event we identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that we cannot remediate in a timely manner, or if we are unable to receive a positive attestation from our independent registered public accounting firm with respect to our internal control over financial reporting when we are required to do so, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. If this occurs, the trading price of our common stock and ability to obtain any necessary equity or debt financing could suffer. In addition, in the event that our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to rely on our internal control over financial reporting in connection with its audit of our financial statements, and in the further event that it is unable to devise alternative procedures in order to satisfy itself as to the material accuracy of our financial statements and related disclosures, we may be unable to file our Annual Report on Form 10-K with the SEC. This would likely have an adverse affect on the trading price of our common stock and our ability to secure any necessary additional financing, and could result in the delisting of our common stock from The Nasdaq Stock Market. In such event, our common stock would not be eligible for quotation on the Over-the Counter Bulletin Board and, due to the lack of an active trading market, the liquidity of our common stock would be severely limited and the market price of our common stock would likely decline significantly. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 23 Table of Contents 