ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS If any of the following risks materialize, then our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have a history of net losses and negative cash flow from operations; this will likely continue in the future and our cash may not be adequate to accomplish our objectives. We have a history of net losses. For the year ended December 31, 2003, we had a net loss of $2.3 million and negative cash flow from operations of $2.2 million. We would have realized a net loss and negative operating cash flow for the year ended December 31, 2004, but for the receipt of $10.0 million in milestone payments from Smith & Nephew. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we had negative operating cash flow of $2.1 million, and we would have realized a greater net loss but for the receipt of $5.0 million in milestone payments from Smith & Nephew. For the year ended December 31, 2006, we had a net loss of $10.5 million, negative operating cash flow of $12.6 million and an accumulated deficit of $34.1 million. Our ability to generate revenue is dependent on our ability to successfully and in a timely fashion manufacture products for sale by Smith & Nephew and design, develop, obtain regulatory approval for, manufacture, and commercialize our product candidates. We expect to increase our operating expenses and capital expenditures over the next several years as we expand our research and development activities and scale up our manufacturing and quality control operations and hire additional personnel. As a result, we expect to continue to incur net losses and negative cash flow from operations for the foreseeable future. Therefore, we will be required to obtain additional financing in the future, and additional financing may not be available at times, in amounts or on terms acceptable to us or at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our product development efforts, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when or if we will become profitable. Prior to our initial public offering in December 2005, we were wholly dependent upon Westaim for financial support, and must now rely on third parties for financing. In the past, all of our external financing was provided by Westaim and we have relied on Westaim for the ongoing financial support necessary to operate our business. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We repaid a portion of our debt to Westaim with a portion of the proceeds of our initial public offering and Westaim exchanged our remaining debt to it for additional common shares. As a result, Westaim does not currently provide us with financing or financial support, nor does it intend to provide us any financing or financial support in the future and to the extent we obtain financing to support our cash need, we will be entirely reliant on third parties for financing. We do not have any lines of credit or other financing arrangements in place with banks or other financial institutions. We will likely require additional external financing in the future and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional financing on commercially reasonable terms, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We are dependent on our relationship with Smith & Nephew. In May 2001, we entered into a number of agreements with Smith & Nephew. The principal agreements are a license and development agreement under which we licensed to Smith & Nephew the exclusive right to market, distribute and sell products with our SILCRYST™ coatings that are designed and indicated solely for use on non-minor skin wounds and burns on humans worldwide, and a supply agreement under which we agreed to manufacture these products and supply them to Smith & Nephew. Our agreements with Smith & Nephew are described under the heading “Business—Smith & Nephew Agreements.” Since May 2001, all of our revenues have been earned under our contracts with Smith & Nephew and Smith & Nephew is currently our only customer. Our revenues under these contracts are derived primarily from royalties, which are calculated as a percentage of Smith & Nephew’s sales of Acticoat™ products, milestone payments, which are cash payments we receive upon the achievement by Smith & Nephew of certain sales goals or regulatory achievements relating to the Acticoat™ products, and reimbursement for our costs incurred in manufacturing Acticoat™ products. As a result, our revenues generally vary in proportion to increases or decreases in Smith & Nephew’s sales of its Acticoat™ products. We therefore depend and will continue to depend on Smith & Nephew to market and sell Acticoat™ products successfully. Smith & Nephew reported Acticoat™ sales growth of 5% in the 17 Table of Contents fourth quarter of 2006 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2005 and 9% for the year 2006 as compared to the year 2005. However, Smith & Nephew has previously announced that market conditions in the advanced wound care market, including the silver dressing segment, appear to be becoming more difficult due in part to increased competition and customer cost containment efforts. If Smith & Nephew does not increase future sales of its Acticoat™ products, this would likely have a material adverse effect on us and on the market price of our common shares. The Smith & Nephew agreements expire in 2026. However, Smith & Nephew may terminate our agreements earlier if we fail to cure a material breach of the agreements or if we suspend operations, cease to carry on business or file for bankruptcy or take other similar actions. If Smith & Nephew were to terminate our agreements prior to their expiration, we would lose the benefit of our strategic collaboration and our only current source of revenue. Smith & Nephew is our only customer for all of our existing products. We have agreed to exclusively supply Smith & Nephew with our SILCRYST™ coatings for use in Smith & Nephew’s products that are designed and indicate solely for use in non-minor skin wounds and burns in humans, which are marketed by Smith & Nephew under its Acticoat™ trademark. Our agreements with Smith & Nephew cover products that are designed and indicated used solely to treat non-minor skin wounds and burns on humans, which we sometimes collectively refer to as “serious” wounds, excluding consumer first-aid products designed for self-medication or use without advice from a health care professional. We currently do not have any other products being sold in the marketplace. Consequently, all of our revenue is received from Smith & Nephew and is principally comprised of cost reimbursement, royalty payments and milestone payments. The amount of our revenues is determined primarily by the level of sales of Acticoat™ products achieved by Smith & Nephew. Moreover, Smith & Nephew is not required to purchase any significant amount of products from us. We are at risk of Smith & Nephew becoming less motivated to market Acticoat™ products due to any one of a number of factors, including other products marketed by Smith & Nephew having better profit margins, or achieving greater acceptance or popularity with health care providers, than the Acticoat™ products. We are also subject to the risk that sales of Acticoat™ products will not grow or will decline due to factors outside Smith & Nephew’s control, including competition from products marketed by competitors having better characteristics or lower prices than Acticoat™ products resulting in customers generally preferring the competitor’s products. Smith & Nephew has the authority to unilaterally determine the selling price for Acticoat™ products. Smith & Nephew may set a relatively low price for our products, or give discounts or rebates that effectively lower the price of the Acticoat™ products, which in either case could reduce our revenues and delay or eliminate receipt of milestone payments. If we lose our patent rights in a particular country and in respect of a particular SILCRYST™ coated product and if someone else sells a competing product in that country that would have infringed on our patent rights had they been in effect, then we are obligated to negotiate in good faith with Smith & Nephew for the reduction of the royalty rate applicable to sales of the particular product in that country for so long as the competing product is being sold and we are without patent protection. If those negotiations do not result in any agreement, the matter would be referred to binding arbitration, although there is a limit on the maximum royalty reduction permitted. Any reduction in our royalties will adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Decisions regarding key aspects of our relationship with Smith & Nephew and the pricing and marketing of Acticoat™ products are made by a limited number of key Smith & Nephew executives. The departure or replacement of any of these executives could have a material adverse effect on our relationship with Smith & Nephew. Our future success depends in part on the launch of new Acticoat™ products by Smith & Nephew. We have worked in the past and intend to work in the future with Smith & Nephew on the development of such new products; however, the decision to develop or launch a new product, the timing of the development and launch and all related matters are entirely within Smith & Nephew’s discretion. Therefore, there can be no assurance that new products will be developed or launched at all or on the timeline or in a manner favorable to us. We may be unable to sell our existing products to other parties, even if our agreements with Smith & Nephew expire or terminate. We have agreed to exclusively supply Smith & Nephew with our SILCRYST™ coatings for use in silver-based products that are designed and indicated solely for use on non-minor skin wounds and burns on humans. We do not have the right to sell these products to other parties so long as Smith & Nephew has complied with the terms of our agreements. In addition, we do not have the right to 18 Table of Contents sell the products marketed by Smith & Nephew as Acticoat™ 3/ Acticoat™ Burn and Acticoat™ 7 in the United States or Canada under any circumstances. If our agreements with Smith & Nephew were terminated or expire, or if we otherwise have the right to sell SILCRYST™-coated wound care products to customers other than Smith & Nephew, we may be unable to market, distribute and sell these products or to enter into a marketing, distribution and sales agreement with another distributor. We do not currently have a marketing, distribution or sales organization and we cannot assure you that we would be successful in marketing, distributing or selling our products were we to attempt to do so. In addition, Smith & Nephew owns and uses the trademark Acticoat™ to sell products with our SILCRYST™ coatings and consequently end-users tend to have greater familiarity with the Acticoat™ trademark as compared to the SILCRYST™ trademark. If our agreements with Smith & Nephew were terminated or expire and we attempted to market products with our SILCRYST™ coatings ourselves or through a distributor, we would not have the benefit of the Acticoat™ trademark. We are required to manufacture Acticoat™ products according to Smith & Nephew’s forecasts and, if we suffer a material difficulty supplying Acticoat™ products, Smith & Nephew would have the right to manufacture or cause a third party to manufacture Acticoat™ products using our technology and facilities. As discussed below, if we suffer a material difficulty in supplying Acticoat™ products, Smith & Nephew may manufacture or cause a third party to manufacture Acticoat™ products, and in such circumstances we will be subject to a number of risks, including, but not limited to, Smith & Nephew failing to comply with FDA-mandated current good manufacturing practices or similar regulations in other jurisdictions, resulting in mandated production halts or limitations, Smith & Nephew experiencing manufacturing quality or control issues which halt or limit Acticoat™ production, and a greater risk that some of our proprietary manufacturing processes and trade secrets will become known to other third parties. Smith & Nephew has on several occasions requested that we increase our production capacity and, as a result, we are currently expanding our production capacity. However, we may not be able to do so in the future or to supply Smith & Nephew with the quantity or quality of products it requests. For a description of certain factors that may make it difficult to supply the quantity of Acticoat™ products required by Smith & Nephew, see below. We are obligated to provide the quantity of Acticoat™ product specified by Smith & Nephew in its demand forecasts. Meeting anticipated demand for Acticoat™ products estimated by Smith & Nephew may require significant scale-up expenses for new facilities and personnel. Although Smith & Nephew is required to reimburse us for costs of manufacturing products that we sell to Smith & Nephew, reimbursement for capital expenditures to acquire equipment typically takes the form of cash payments approximately equal to our depreciation, which payments are typically spread out over a number of years. Accordingly, scaling up our manufacturing capability may require that we make substantial up-front cash expenditures for which we will not be reimbursed for a period of several years. Smith & Nephew is not required to reimburse us for any costs incurred in acquiring or improving owned real property, buildings or similar improvements and, as a result, we are and will be required to obtain additional financing to fund any such expenditures we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. Smith & Nephew’s obligation to reimburse us in any calendar year for fixed costs that are within our control or the control of our affiliates (including Westaim), other than costs incurred at the request of Smith & Nephew, is capped at the greater of a fixed percent and the increase in the Canadian Consumer Price Index. Moreover, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully increase our manufacturing capacity to meet anticipated demand or that we will be able to satisfy demand in a cost-effective manner. Further, the demand forecasts provided by Smith & Nephew may materially overstate actual demand for Acticoat™ products, thereby resulting in excessive inventories and the potential for loss of product due to shelf-life expiration, or such forecasts may materially understate actual demand for Acticoat™ products resulting in lost sales due to the inability to meet demand on a timely basis. Either situation would have a negative impact on our results of operations. In that regard, we have recently shipped more products to Smith & Nephew as Smith & Nephew has sought to increase its inventory of Acticoat™ products to its desired level. While we recognize manufacturing cost reimbursement as revenue upon shipment of Acticoat™ products to Smith & Nephew, we do not recognize royalty revenues until Smith & Nephew sells these products to its customers, and consequently, increases in Smith & Nephew’s inventory levels, or changes in the relative contribution of manufacturing cost reimbursement and royalty revenues to our total revenues, has affected and may in the future affect our gross margins. We lease certain manufacturing equipment from Smith & Nephew which represented approximately 40% of our total manufacturing capacity at December 31, 2006. If we suffer a material difficulty in supplying Acticoat™ products (which would give Smith & Nephew the right to assume the manufacture of Acticoat™ products as described below), and that difficulty is not cured on a timely basis, this lease would terminate and Smith & Nephew would have the right to take possession of the equipment it leases to us and to buy our other manufacturing equipment used in the production of Acticoat™ products. In such case, Smith & Nephew would 19 Table of Contents also receive the right to use our technology and this equipment to manufacture, on its own, Acticoat™ products for non-minor skin wounds and burns on humans. If Smith & Nephew were to take possession of this equipment and manufacture Acticoat™ products on its own or with a third party, even for a limited period of time, it would have a material adverse effect on our business. We have deposited with an escrow agent certain documentation and manuals that describe the technology used to manufacture Acticoat™ products. Upon the occurrence of certain release events, the documentation and manuals would be released by the escrow agent to Smith & Nephew as part of the right to use our technology to manufacture Acticoat™ products for non-minor skin wounds and burns on humans. A release event is defined as a material difficulty in supplying Acticoat™ products under our supply agreement with Smith & Nephew that is not cured on a timely basis or the occurrence of certain events in connection with our insolvency or bankruptcy. In addition, we have granted to Smith & Nephew a security interest in our manufacturing technology and patent rights used in the manufacture of Acticoat™ products. This security interest secures our obligations to Smith & Nephew under the manufacturing right that would be granted to Smith & Nephew as described above. Under the security trust agreement and trust indenture, Smith & Nephew may take possession of and use our manufacturing technology and patent rights upon the occurrence of a release event as described above. Accordingly, Smith & Nephew would have the right, upon the occurrence of specified events, to use our manufacturing technologies and patent rights to manufacture Acticoat™ products on its own or have them manufactured by a third party. If this were to occur, it would have a material adverse effect on our business and would pose a risk that some of our proprietary manufacturing processes and trade secrets will become known to third parties. In addition, the existence of these Smith & Nephew rights will likely make it more difficult for us to obtain debt and other forms of financing in the future and may also limit the amount investors are willing to pay for our common shares. We rely on Smith & Nephew for regulatory filings for Acticoat™ products and our results would be adversely affected if they do not fully comply with regulatory requirements. Smith & Nephew is responsible for regulatory filings required for the marketing and sale of Acticoat™ products. If Smith & Nephew does not fully comply with regulatory requirements related to these products, then we may be subject to risks which could adversely affect our results of operations and prospects, including but not limited to actions by the FDA or other regulatory authorities which may have the effect of restricting or preventing our ability to market and sell our products, or to have those products marketed or sold. It could also result in increased costs related to compliance with regulatory requirements. Our agreements with Smith & Nephew may limit our ability to enter into agreements to transfer certain of our assets. We have granted Smith & Nephew a right of first offer regarding our assets and technology used to manufacture and supply Acticoat™ products if we desire to sell all or substantially all of these assets. We have also granted Smith & Nephew a right of first refusal regarding these assets if we receive an offer to purchase them, which we wish to accept, from a competitor of Smith & Nephew’s in the wound care market. The existence of these Smith & Nephew rights could limit our ability to enter into transactions involving the transfer of all or substantially all of these assets. We have agreed to indemnify Smith & Nephew for claims under our agreements, which could result in significant costs to us. We have agreed to indemnify Smith & Nephew in respect of claims resulting from any alleged physical injury or property damage as a result of our acts or omissions, the failure to perform our obligations under the license and development agreement and the supply agreement, our non-compliance with applicable law or regulation, or any breach of our representations under these two agreements for so long as the particular representation survives. Also, we have agreed to indemnify Smith & Nephew in respect of claims resulting from any actual or threatened action by any third party alleging our SILCRYST™ coatings infringe that third party’s intellectual property rights. Smith & Nephew’s remedy for such an infringement action is limited to withholding damages or royalties it must pay on account of the infringement action from amounts or royalties payable to us under the two agreements, unless we have breached any representation to Smith & Nephew in connection with that infringement. Our ability to develop and sell future products, particularly our gastrointestinal and future wound care products, is critical to our success, and if we fail to do so, our business and financial condition will suffer. We have invested and will continue to invest a significant portion of our time and financial resources in the development of future products including products for wound care and gastrointestinal applications. With the discontinuance in 2006 of our clinical trial program for our pharmaceutical product candidate for the treatment of dermatological conditions, we have experienced a setback in the timeline for the development and introduction of potential new products. We are now refocusing our research efforts on 20 Table of Contents preclinical work in gastrointestinal applications of our nanocrystalline technology and we are pursuing the introduction of the NPI 32101 cream formulation as a medical device. The development of medical devices and pharmaceutical products is risky because we cannot be sure that products will be as effective as we anticipate or will receive regulatory approval, and the development of new products is extremely costly and typically extends over many years. Even if we receive regulatory approval, other companies may be able to market similar products prior to the launch of our products, during which time their products may gain a significant marketing advantage. We expect to incur substantial capital expenditures in connection with the development of future products. If we fail to successfully develop and sell our future products then we will not earn any return on our investment in these future products, which will adversely affect our results of operations and could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. It would also adversely affect our financial condition. In addition, if we are unable to develop future products, we will remain dependent on Smith & Nephew’s ability to market and sell Acticoat™ products successfully. Our success in developing and selling new products will depend upon multiple factors, including: our ability to develop safe and effective products; • our ability to obtain regulatory approval in the United States, the European Union and other markets and the scope of such approval; • our ability to add sufficient manufacturing capacity and capability at an acceptable cost and in compliance with regulatory requirements; • our ability to generate commercial sales of our products; • acceptance of the product by the medical community and by patients and third-party payors; • inherent development risks, such as the product proving to be unsafe or unreliable, or not having the anticipated effectiveness; • preclusion or obsolescence resulting from third parties’ proprietary rights or superior or equivalent products; • our ability to enter into favorable and effective marketing and distribution agreements, or to be able to effectively market and distribute on our own; • our ability to develop repeatable processes to manufacture new products in sufficient quantities; • our ability to raise on acceptable terms the substantial additional capital expected to be necessary to successfully develop and commercialize such products; and • general economic conditions. If we cannot overcome any of these factors, we may not be able to develop and introduce new products in a timely or cost-effective manner, which could adversely affect our future growth and results of operations. Our failure to develop new products could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Materials made in the nanoscale size range can often have chemical or physical properties that are different from those of their larger counterparts. Such differences include altered magnetic properties, altered electrical or optical activity, increased structural integrity, and increased chemical and biological activity. Because of these properties, nanotechnology materials have great potential for use in a vast array of products. However, because of some of their special properties, they may pose different safety issues than their larger counterparts. Our nanocrystalline technology may present safety risks which are unknown at this time, and which may result in claims against us. Any claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, reduced sales, significant liabilities and diversion of our management’s time and attention. If product liability lawsuits are brought against us, they could result in costly litigation and significant liabilities. Our use of products in clinical trials, and our or Smith & Nephew’s marketing and sale of products, may expose us to product liability claims and associated adverse publicity. Additionally, the manufacture and sale of medical or pharmaceutical products or devices exposes us to an inherent risk of product liability claims, and the industries in which our products are sold or are likely to be sold have been subject to significant product liability litigation. Any claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, reduced sales, significant liabilities and diversion of our management’s time and attention. 21 Table of Contents We have product liability insurance coverage in an amount that we believe is adequate for a company of our size in our industry under a policy maintained by Westaim, which covers Westaim and other entities it controls, and we expect to have this coverage at least until June 30, 2007 when Westaim’s coverage expires at which time we intend to obtain our own insurance policies or continue our coverage under Westaim’s renewed policies, unless Westaim no longer holds more than 50% of our outstanding common shares, and subject to the earlier termination of the services agreement we entered into with Westaim or that portion of the services agreement relating to the provision of insurance to us by Westaim. See “Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions—Relationship with Westaim—Services Agreement.” Once we are no longer covered by Westaim’s insurance policies, we will have to obtain our own insurance policies, which could result in increased costs or reduced insurance coverage. In addition, our insurance coverage may not protect us against any or all of the product liability claims which could be brought against us in the future, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain product liability insurance in the future at a cost that we deem acceptable, or at all. In the event a product liability claim is brought against us, we may be required to pay legal and other expenses to defend the claim and, if such a claim is successful, damage awards may not be covered, in whole or in part, by our insurance. We may not have sufficient capital resources to pay a judgment, in which case our creditors could levy against our assets. We may also be obligated to indemnify our collaborators and make payments to other parties with respect to product liability damages and claims. Defending any product liability claims, or indemnifying others against those claims, could require us to expend significant financial and managerial resources. The market for advanced wound care and pharmaceutical products is intensely competitive and many of our competitors have significantly more resources and experience than we do, which may limit our commercial opportunities and revenues. The medical device and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive. There are numerous silver-containing advanced wound care dressings and silver-coated medical devices available from a variety of health care companies. Some of these products have been recently introduced and directly compete with Acticoat™. We sell products containing our SILCRYST™ coatings to Smith & Nephew and Smith & Nephew markets and sells them under its Acticoat™ trademark into a larger competitive environment. We may not be able to compete successfully. Major competitors in the advanced wound dressing market in which Smith & Nephew’s Acticoat™ products are sold include Convatec, a Bristol Myers Squibb company; Johnson & Johnson Wound Management, a division of Ethicon, Inc.; Argentum Medical, LLC; Coloplast Corp.; AcryMed, Inc.; 3M Company; Kinetic Concepts, Inc.; Mölnlycke Health Care Group AB and Paul Hartmann AG. To the extent that we develop pharmaceutical products to treat gastrointestinal conditions, we will face competition from pharmaceutical companies developing alternative drugs to treat this disease. In addition, we face and will continue to face competition from other major multi-national pharmaceutical companies, medical device companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies, universities and other research institutions. Products or treatments of our competitors that exist now or that may be developed in the future may reduce the marketability of the current SILCRYST™ coatings and any of our future products, particularly to the extent such products: are more effective; have fewer or less severe adverse side effects; • have better patient compliance; • receive better reimbursement terms; • are accepted by more physicians; • have better distribution channels; • are easier to administer; • are less expensive; or • are more cost effective. We cannot assure you that our competitors will not succeed in developing alternative technologies and products that are more effective, easier to use or more economical than those which have been or are being developed by us or that would render our technology and products obsolete and noncompetitive in these fields. 22 Table of Contents Some of our competitors, either alone or together with their collaborators, have substantially greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, and other resources and larger research, development and regulatory staffs than we do. In addition, many of our competitors, either alone or together with their collaborators, have significantly greater experience than we do in discovering, developing, manufacturing and marketing products and may also have greater experience in conducting clinical trials and obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals. As a result, they may be able to devote greater resources to the development, manufacture, marketing or sale of their products, initiate or withstand substantial price competition or development costs, or more readily take advantage of acquisitions or other opportunities. Additional mergers and acquisitions, collaborations or other transactions, or the emergence or growth of other competitors in the medical device and pharmaceutical industries, may result in our competitors having even more resources. If we are unable to effectively manage our expected future growth, we may develop too much production capacity resulting in too high of a cost structure to continue to produce Acticoat™ products cost effectively or we may develop production capacity too slowly and be unable to meet demand for Acticoat™ products with our SILCRYST™ coatings and, in either event, we may be unable to develop or commercialize future products successfully. We currently manufacture Acticoat™ products with our SILCRYST™ coatings in our manufacturing facility in Fort Saskatchewan, Alberta. At the end of the third quarter of 2005, we began construction of an expansion of our production facility with an estimated cost of approximately $5.7 million. We also hired additional employees to increase our production capacity. We are funding the up-front costs of the capital expenditures required to acquire the new production equipment associated with this expansion. Once we complete the expansion and start using the new equipment to produce Acticoat™ products, we are entitled to recoup these costs over time from Smith & Nephew through reimbursement for depreciation expense, the payment of which are typically spread over a number of years. We expect the capacity expansion will be completed by the middle of 2007. We began this expansion based on forecasted production volumes of Acticoat™ products provided to us by Smith & Nephew but cannot guarantee that the production volumes will grow as forecasted or that we will be able to expand production capacity as planned, or at all. In this regard, Smith & Nephew has announced recently that market conditions in the advanced wound care market, including silver dressings segment, has become more competitive due to increased competition and customer cost containment efforts. We are uncertain as to whether or the extent to which this increased competition will have a negative impact on Acticoat™ product sales growth. If we complete the expansion and production volumes do not grow as forecasted by Smith & Nephew, we may not need the equipment, and therefore, may not be able to begin recouping our up-front investment through reimbursement of depreciation expense from Smith & Nephew which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operation. Conversely, to the extent that we are successful in expanding production capacity, our ability to manage our operations and expected growth will require us to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. We may not be able to make such improvements in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. Our ability to develop and commercialize future products and compete effectively, and our future financial performance will depend, in part, on production volumes growing as forecasted and on our ability to manage any future growth effectively. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve sufficient manufacturing capabilities to satisfy demand for our current or new products in a cost-effective manner or to produce and sell the quantities necessary for us to operate profitably. We depend on our executive officers and scientific and technical personnel, and if we are not able to retain them or recruit additional qualified personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop or commercialize future products. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our executive officers and scientific and technical personnel. Due to the specialized knowledge each of our executive officers possesses with respect to our operations, the loss of service of any of our executive officers could delay or prevent the successful completion of the clinical trials necessary for the commercialization of present or future products. We rely substantially upon the services of Scott H. Gillis, our President and Chief Executive Officer; Paul J. Schechter, our Vice President, Drug Development & Regulatory Affairs and Chief Medical Officer; Eliot M. Lurier, our Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer; and David C. McDowell, our Vice President, Manufacturing Operations. Although these individuals have employment agreements with us, we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain their services. In the event Mr. Gillis or Dr. Schechter is terminated without cause, we will be required to make severance payments to such officer under the terms of his employment agreement. See “Executive Compensation—Employment Agreements.” We do not currently maintain key man life insurance policies with respect to any of our employees. 23 Table of Contents Our success also depends in part on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, commercial and administrative personnel. In order to pursue our product development and commercialization strategies, we will need to retain existing personnel or hire new personnel with experience in a number of disciplines, including product development, manufacturing, quality, clinical testing, government regulation, sales and marketing, drug reimbursement and information systems. There is intense competition for personnel in the fields in which we operate. If we are unable to retain existing employees or attract new employees, we may be unable to continue our development and commercialization activities. We currently purchase most of our raw materials from single suppliers. If we are unable to obtain raw materials and other products from our suppliers that we depend on for our operations, our ability to deliver our products to market may be impeded. We depend on suppliers for raw materials and other components that are subject to stringent regulatory requirements. We currently purchase most of our raw materials from single suppliers and the loss of any of these suppliers could result in a disruption in our production. If this were to occur, it may be difficult to arrange a replacement supplier, because certain of these materials may only be available from one or a limited number of sources. Our suppliers may encounter problems during manufacturing due to a variety of reasons, including failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, failure to comply with applicable regulations, equipment malfunction and environmental factors. In addition, establishing additional or replacement suppliers for these materials may take a substantial period of time, as certain of these suppliers must be approved by regulatory authorities. If we are unable to secure on a timely basis sufficient quantities of the materials we depend on to manufacture Acticoat™ products, if we encounter delays or contractual or other difficulties in our relationships with these suppliers, or if we cannot find replacement suppliers at an acceptable cost, then the manufacture of Acticoat™ products may be disrupted, which could increase our costs and have a materially adverse effect on our revenues. If we are not successful in establishing collaborations with prominent health care companies, we may not be able to grow our business. Our long-term success depends upon our ability to identify, develop and commercialize products, potentially including new device coatings and products for dermatological and gastrointestinal applications. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing new products. However, if we do develop new products, we will need to either market and sell such products ourselves or collaborate with one or more other companies that have the required marketing and sales capabilities. New collaborations are a key part of our growth strategy. If we are unable to enter into collaborations respecting new products or market and sell such products ourselves, we will continue to be dependent upon Smith & Nephew for all of our revenues, and we may be limited in our ability to grow our business. The terms and conditions of any future collaboration agreements may be less favorable than our agreements with Smith & Nephew. If a natural or man-made disaster strikes one or more of our facilities, or facilities upon which we depend, we may be unable to manufacture certain products for a substantial amount of time and our revenue could decline. Our facilities and the facilities of others on which we depend may be affected by natural or man-made disasters, which may include terrorist activities. We depend on our manufacturing facility and research laboratories, as well as our critical information systems, for the continued operation of our business. Our sole manufacturing facility is located in Fort Saskatchewan, Alberta, Canada. This facility and the manufacturing equipment that we use to produce our products, as well as our critical information systems, would be difficult to replace and could require substantial lead time to repair or replace. In the event that our manufacturing facility was affected by a natural or man-made disaster, we would be forced to construct new manufacturing facilities and may not be able to produce our products in sufficient quantities, or at all, during the period of construction. In that regard, due to the specialized nature of our manufacturing equipment, we anticipate that it would take a substantial period of time to construct new manufacturing facilities. Moreover, we would need to secure regulatory approval to manufacture our products at a new facility. Accordingly, construction of new facilities and regulatory approvals could take years to complete and could result in significant costs to us. 24 Table of Contents We have historically had internal controls and accounting processes in place and have modified these controls and processes over time as the need has arisen. However, if our internal controls and accounting processes are insufficient, we may not detect in a timely manner misstatements that could occur in our financial statements in amounts that could be material. As a result of our initial public offering and the subsequent listing of our common shares on NASDAQ and the Toronto Stock Exchange, we need to devote substantial efforts to the reporting obligations and internal controls required of a public company in the United States and Canada, which will result in substantial costs, and a failure to properly meet these obligations could cause investors to lose confidence in us and have a negative impact on the market price of our common shares. Because, prior to our initial public offering, we had a small accounting staff and relied on Westaim to provide certain accounting services to us, these obligations will be more taxing on our resources than if we were a larger organization. We will be required to devote significant resources to the documentation and testing of our operational and financial systems for the foreseeable future. In connection with our initial public offering we took a number of steps to prepare for quarterly financial reporting and we have had only limited operating experience with the improvements we made. We will need to make continued efforts with respect to the documentation of our internal controls in order to meet the requirements of being a public company in the United States and Canada, including the rules under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in the United States and Multilateral Instrument 52-109—Certification Disclosure in Issuers’ Annual and Interim Filings. However, the improvements we have made to date and the efforts with respect to our accounting processes that we will need to continue to make may not be sufficient to ensure that we maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations in the United States or Canada or result in misstatements in our consolidated financial statements in amounts that could be material. Insufficient internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our shares and may expose us to litigation risk. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant expenses as a result of being a public company. We completed our initial public offering in December 2005 and we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting, insurance and other expenses as a result of being a public company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as related rules implemented by the SEC and the NASDAQ Global Market, and National Policy 58-201—Corporate Governance Guidelines implemented by the Canadian securities administrators, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. Compliance with these laws, rules and regulations has substantially increased and will continue to substantially increase our expenses, including our legal and accounting costs, and makes some activities more time-consuming and costly. We also expect that these laws, rules and regulations will make it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as officers. Consequently, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience a substantial increase in legal, accounting, insurance and certain other expenses in the future, which will negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. We may incur losses associated with currency fluctuations and may not be able to effectively hedge our exposure. The Smith & Nephew sales revenues on which our royalty and milestone revenues are determined are reported to us in U.S. dollars. Sales by Smith & Nephew in other currencies will result in fluctuations in their revenue as reported in U.S. dollars. Our accounts receivable from Smith & Nephew are denominated in U.S. dollars. The functional currency that we use for accounting purposes is the Canadian dollar and, as a result, accounts receivable recorded in Canadian dollars are exposed to changes in the exchange rate between the Canadian and U.S. dollars until these receivables are collected. We do not maintain derivative instruments to mitigate our exposure to fluctuations in exchange rates. 25 Table of Contents Risks Related to Regulatory Matters Smith & Nephew may be unable to maintain existing regulatory approvals or obtain new regulatory approvals for the Acticoat™ products that it currently sells, which would negatively affect our results of operations. Our future products may not be approved by the regulatory agencies, and any failure or delay associated with our product development and clinical trials or the agencies’ approval would increase our product development costs and time to market. Smith & Nephew is required to maintain regulatory approvals to sell the Acticoat™ products that it currently sells and to obtain additional regulatory approvals for those current products to sell them in any new markets. All of our future products will also require regulatory approval before we or any collaborator are allowed to market and sell them. We expect the regulatory approval process to be lengthy and expensive and we will have the burden of proving that our products are safe and effective. Satisfying regulatory requirements may cause our products to become prohibitively expensive. We cannot assure you that Smith & Nephew will be able to maintain existing regulatory approvals for the Acticoat™ products it now sells or obtain new regulatory approvals, or that the conditions imposed by regulators will not adversely affect Smith & Nephew’s ability to market those products. Regulatory requirements imposed on products could limit Smith & Nephew’s ability to commercialize its product and our ability to test, manufacture and commercialize our products. Loss of these approvals or an inability to obtain approvals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Preclinical studies and clinical trials are expensive, can take many years and have uncertain outcomes. In addition, the regulatory approval procedures vary among countries and additional testing may be required in some jurisdictions. It usually takes at least several years to complete the requisite pre-clinical studies and clinical trials, and a product candidate may fail at any stage of testing. Difficulties and risks associated with pre-clinical studies and clinical trials may result in failure to receive regulatory approval or inability to commercialize products for new indications. Clinical trials may be suspended or terminated at any time due to the actions of the FDA, other regulatory authorities, our collaborators, or due to our own actions. The commencement and completion of our clinical trials could be delayed or prevented by several factors, including: • delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, including approvals by the competent institutional review board, or IRB, or ethics committee, or EC, to commence or continue a study; • delays in identifying and reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective clinical trial sites; • insufficient quantities of the study product; • scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions; • slower than expected rates of patient recruitment and enrollment or the inability to reach full enrollment; • improper enrollment practices resulting in protocol management problems and statistical analysis problems; • inconclusive or negative interim results during clinical trials, including lack of effectiveness or unforeseen safety issues; • death of, or serious adverse effects experienced by, one or more patients during a clinical trial even if the reasons are not related to the study product candidate, including the advanced stage of the patient’s disease or medical condition; • uncertain dosing issues; • inability to monitor patients adequately during and after treatment; • inability or unwillingness of contract laboratories to follow good laboratory practices or of our clinical investigators and us to follow good clinical practices; • the occurrence of adverse events during the clinical trials; • inability or unwillingness of clinical investigators to follow our clinical protocols or good clinical practices generally; • inability or unwillingness of patients to follow our clinical protocols; and • inability or unwillingness of other third parties to perform data collection and analysis in a timely or accurate manner. Delays or failures in obtaining regulatory approvals may: • delay or prevent the commercialization of any product that we develop for new indications or any product within an already 26 Table of Contents approved indication for which the submission of additional clinical trial data is required; • in the case of delays, materially and adversely increase the cost of completing the development of such product and obtaining regulatory approval to market it; • diminish any competitive advantages; and • adversely affect our ability to attract new collaborators. Completion of clinical trials does not guarantee successful commercialization of future products. Completion of clinical trials does not guarantee successful commercialization, for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to the following factors: • clinical trials can have negative or inconclusive results; • regulators may not agree with our results or our analysis of the safety or the efficacy of our products; • there is a risk of unsuccessful commercialization even after a product has been launched into the market, for example due to unexpected side effects of the product which were not discovered during clinical trials; and • the market may fail to respond positively to a product for a variety of factors outside our control, including but not limited to inadequate or unsuccessful marketing efforts by third parties on which we depend but cannot control, competition from other products, cost, reimbursement policies of third-party payors or the buying decisions of consumers for a variety of unforeseen reasons, including those unrelated to efficacy. In the case of products that have already received regulatory approval or products for which we may receive regulatory approval in the future, we, Smith & Nephew and any companies with which we may collaborate in the future may still face development and regulatory difficulties that may delay or impair future sales. Current Acticoat™ products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA, other federal authorities and certain state, provincial, territorial and foreign regulatory authorities. If we, Smith & Nephew or any companies with which we may collaborate in the future obtain regulatory approval for any future products, we, Smith & Nephew and any such collaborators will also be subject to extensive regulation by the FDA, other federal authorities and certain state, provincial, territorial and foreign regulatory authorities. These regulations will impact and do impact in the case of Acticoat™ products many aspects of our operations, including manufacturing, record keeping, quality control, adverse event reporting, storage, labeling, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution, export and personnel. The FDA and state, provincial, territorial and foreign agencies may conduct periodic inspections to assess compliance with these requirements. We, together with Smith & Nephew and any companies with which we may collaborate in the future, will be required to conduct post-marketing surveillance of the products. We also may be required to conduct post-marketing studies and safety monitoring. Any failure by us, Smith & Nephew or any companies with which we may collaborate in the future to comply with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements, or the discovery of previously unknown problems, may result in problems including: • delays in commercialization; • refusal by the FDA or other regulatory agencies to review pending applications or supplements to approved applications; • product recalls or seizures; warning letters; suspension of manufacturing; • withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications; • fines and other civil penalties; • injunctions, suspensions or revocations of marketing licenses; • refusals to permit products to be imported to or exported from the United States and other countries; and • civil litigation and criminal prosecutions. See “Business—Government Regulation—United States—Manufacturing cGMP Requirements.” 27 Table of Contents If government and third-party payors fail to provide coverage and adequate reimbursement rates for Acticoat™ products or our future products, our revenues and potential for profitability will be reduced. Our revenues currently depend in part and will continue to depend upon the reimbursement rates established by third-party payors, including government health administration authorities, managed-care providers, public health insurers, private health insurers and other organizations. These third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price, and examining the cost-effectiveness, of medical products and services. Cost control initiatives could decrease the established reimbursement rates that we receive for any products in the future, which would limit our revenues. Legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceutical products or medical devices, including the Acticoat™ products, may change at any time, which could limit or eliminate reimbursement rates for Acticoat™ or other products. If physicians, hospitals and other users of Acticoat™ products or any products we develop in the future fail to obtain sufficient reimbursement from healthcare payors for these products, or if adverse changes occur in governmental and private third-party payors’ policies toward reimbursement for these products, it could negatively affect the demand for these products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status, if any, of newly approved pharmaceutical or medical device products, and we have no assurance that adequate or any third-party coverage will be provided for any new products introduced by us. If our new products do not receive adequate coverage and reimbursement, the market acceptance of these products would be adversely affected, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may need to conduct post-marketing clinical trials in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of products. Such studies may require us to commit a significant amount of management time and financial and other resources. Future products may not be reimbursed or covered by any of these third-party payors for our targeted indications. In many foreign markets, particularly countries in the European Union and Canada, the pricing of medical products is subject to governmental control. In these countries, obtaining pricing approval from governmental authorities can take many months and sometimes years to obtain. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of a product to other available therapies. If reimbursement of such products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, then our revenues could be reduced. In the United States, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental pricing controls. We cannot assure you that the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 will not have a significant effect on pricing or reimbursement for the pharmaceutical products that we are developing. Our business involves the use, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials and may subject us to environmental liability, and any future environmental liability could seriously harm our financial condition. We do not maintain insurance covering these risks. Our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the use, handling, storage and disposal of various materials commonly used in conducting these activities in the pharmaceutical industry, such as alcohols and acids. These materials are considered hazardous because they may be toxic, corrosive or flammable under certain conditions. We are subject to federal, state, provincial, local and foreign laws, regulations and policies governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of these materials. Some of our facilities are located in areas that may experience environmental contamination due to the activities of third parties. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from the use, manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of materials we use. In the event of an accident or contamination, we could be liable for damages or costs of clean-up or remediation or be penalized with fines. This liability could be substantial and exceed our resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We do not maintain insurance for environmental liabilities. We may have to incur significant costs to comply with future environmental laws and regulations. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that costs and expenses relating to environmental matters or our use of hazardous materials will not have a material adverse effect on our business. 28 Table of Contents We perform and manage our clinical trials rather than relying on third-party clinical research organizations, or CROs, and since we do not have extensive experience in this area, there may be delays in completing, or a failure to complete, clinical trials that comply with regulatory requirements. We may not have the experience or the capability to take a product through the entire research and development process. Specifically, we may not be able to take a product through pre-clinical development, clinical trials management, clinical data management, study design, biostatistical analysis, central laboratory and regulatory affairs. Thus, we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize, our product candidates. Further, we may not perform our clinical trials in accordance with good clinical and laboratory practices, as required by the applicable regulatory authorities. If our clinical trials fail to comply with these regulatory practices, we may be unable to use the data from those trials. Consequently, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated. We also may not be able to run our clinical trials as efficiently as a CRO and therefore we may experience a longer and more costly product development phase. This increase in the product development phase may subsequently reduce our period of patent exclusivity, and in turn diminish our potential economic returns. Failure to comply with workplace safety legislation could seriously harm our financial condition. If we fail to comply with workplace safety legislation applicable to our employees, we may be subject to sanctions, fines and penalties including but not limited to closure of our manufacturing facility, as well as litigation risks, all of which would harm our financial condition. Risks Related to Intellectual Property The protection of our intellectual property rights is critical to our success and any failure on our part to adequately protect those rights would materially adversely affect our business. Patents. Our commercial success will depend in part on the patent rights we own or may license in the future. As of January 12, 2007, our patent portfolio was comprised of 21 patents and 20 pending patent applications in the United States and 82 corresponding patents and 30 corresponding patent applications in the other major markets around the world. Our success depends on maintaining these patent rights against third-party challenges to their validity, scope or enforceability. In general, our patent position is subject to the risk that a governmental agency, such as the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or PTO, or the courts may deny, narrow or invalidate patent claims. We may not be successful in securing or maintaining proprietary or patent protection for our products and candidates, and any protection that we do secure may be challenged and possibly lost. Our competitors may develop products similar to ours using compositions, methods and technologies that are beyond the scope of our intellectual property rights. In addition, if we are unable to maintain our proprietary rights, other companies may be able to copy our products or manufacturing processes. For example, although we believe that we have valid patent protection for our current products until at least 2014, it is possible that, prior to the expiration of our patents, competitors will attempt to introduce products similar to ours outside of the scope of our patents. Intellectual property protection is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and technical questions. Our patents and any patent that we may license in the future may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated, or circumvented. Our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products, or provide us with any competitive advantage. The PTO, the PTO’s counterparts in other nations and the courts in the United States and elsewhere have not established a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed related to pharmaceutical patents. The allowance of broader claims may increase the incidence and cost of patent interference proceedings and the risk of infringement litigation. On the other hand, the allowance of narrower claims may limit the value of our proprietary rights. Failure to obtain or maintain patent or trade secret protection, for any reason, could adversely affect our competitiveness in the marketplace. Additionally, the laws of some countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States and Canada. For example, enforcing patents in countries such as China and Japan may be difficult due to the structures 29 Table of Contents of their patent systems. In addition, litigation in these or other countries may not be cost effective when balanced against the benefit that may be obtained. Further, there may be substantial global markets in which we do not have or may not be able to secure patent protection. There are also countries where our patents may not provide us with a financial or commercial benefit due to that country’s tolerance of patent violations. In addition, our competitors or other third parties, including generic drug companies, may challenge the validity of our patent claims. As a result, these patents may be narrowed in scope or invalidated and may fail to provide us with any market exclusivity or competitive advantage even after our investment of significant amounts of money. We also may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights against third-party infringement, which may be difficult to detect. In addition, we cannot assure you that third parties will not claim that we are infringing upon their patents or other intellectual property rights. If we become involved in any dispute regarding our intellectual property rights, regardless of whether we prevail, we could be required to engage in costly, distracting and time-consuming litigation that could harm our business and that could result in substantial expense. Likewise, if we were found to infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of others, we might be required to make substantial royalty or other payments to third parties or otherwise cease manufacturing and marketing the product that is alleged to be infringing such third party patent or other intellectual property right, which in either case could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Trade Secrets and Proprietary Know-how. We also rely upon trade secrets and unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation in developing our products, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. We seek to protect this intellectual property, in part, by generally requiring our employees, consultants and current and prospective business partners to enter into confidentiality agreements. We may lack the financial or other resources to successfully monitor and detect, or to enforce our rights in respect of, infringements of our rights or breaches of these confidentiality agreements. In the case of any such undetected or unchallenged infringements or breaches, these confidentiality agreements may not provide us with meaningful protection of our trade secrets and unpatented proprietary know-how or adequate remedies. In addition, others may independently develop technology that is similar or equivalent to our trade secrets or know-how. If any of our trade secrets, unpatented know-how or other confidential and proprietary information is divulged to third parties, including our competitors, our competitive position in the marketplace could be harmed and our ability to successfully sell products in our target markets could be severely compromised. Trademarks. We have received trademark registrations for the words NUCRYST™ and SILCRYST™ as well as associated designs, in many jurisdictions that we consider major markets. We have pending trademark applications in other major market jurisdictions, including the United States. If we do not adequately protect our rights in our various trademarks from infringement, any goodwill that has been developed in those marks could be lost or impaired. If the marks we use are found to infringe upon the trademark or service mark of another company, we could be forced to stop using those marks and, as a result, we could lose any goodwill which has been developed in those marks and could be liable for damages caused by any such infringement. The ability to market Acticoat™ products and any other products we develop is subject to the intellectual property rights of third parties. Acticoat™ products, and the product candidates we currently are developing and those we may develop in the future, may infringe patent and other rights of third parties. In addition, our competitors, many of which have substantially greater resources than us and have made significant investments in competing technologies or products, may seek to apply for and obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use and sell products either in North America or international markets. Intellectual property litigation in the pharmaceutical industry is common, and we expect this to continue. If we or our collaborators are found to be infringing or to have infringed upon the intellectual property rights of third parties, we may be required to license the disputed rights, if the holder of those rights is willing, or to cease marketing the challenged products, or, if possible, to modify our products to avoid infringing upon those rights. Moreover, we could be liable for royalties on past sales and significant damages, and we could be required to obtain and pay for licenses if we are to continue to manufacture our products. These licenses may not be available and, if available, could require us to pay substantial upfront fees and future royalty payments. Any patent owner may seek preliminary injunctive relief in connection with an infringement claim, as well as a permanent injunction, against us or our collaborators and, if successful in the claim, may be entitled to lost profits from infringing sales, legal fees and interest and other amounts. Any damages could be increased if there is a finding of willful infringement. Even if we and our collaborators are successful in defending an infringement claim, the expense, time delay and burden on management of litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business. 30 Table of Contents We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. Many of our employees were previously employed at universities or other medical device or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying money damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize product candidates, which could harm our business. We may become involved in expensive intellectual property litigation or other proceedings related to intellectual property rights. We may deem it necessary or advisable to commence litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. Others may claim that we have infringed upon their intellectual property rights and commence litigation against us. We believe that we will be subject to an increasing number of infringement claims to the extent we produce more products. Our commercial success depends in part on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. Infringement proceedings in the pharmaceutical industry are lengthy, costly and time-consuming and their outcome is uncertain. We may also be forced to engage in litigation to enforce any patents issued or licensed to us, or to determine the scope and validity of third party proprietary rights. Moreover, if our competitors prepare and file patent applications in the United States to claim technology that is also claimed by us, we may be forced to participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention. In addition, in Europe, any patents issued to us may be challenged by third parties in opposition proceedings. Litigation and participation in such proceedings could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts, even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us. Litigation could also subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties or require us to cease using certain technology. If we become involved in any patent litigation, interference, opposition or other administrative proceedings, we will incur substantial expense and the efforts of our technical and management personnel will be significantly diverted. As a result of such litigation or proceedings we could lose our proprietary position and be restricted or prevented from developing, manufacturing and selling the affected products, incur significant damage awards, including punitive damages, or be required to seek third-party licenses that may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, we may lack the resources, whether financial or otherwise, to monitor, prosecute and enforce our intellectual property rights. Moreover, our collaborators may choose not to enforce or maintain their intellectual property rights, and we may be forced to incur substantial additional costs to maintain or enforce such rights or may incur additional risks should we choose not to maintain or enforce such rights. Risks Related to Our Common Shares There has been limited trading in our common shares and, as a result, our common share price may be highly volatile. There has been low trading volume in our common shares since our initial public offering in December 2005. We cannot predict the extent to which an active trading market will develop or how liquid any market that may develop might become. An active trading market for our common shares may never develop or may not be sustained, which could adversely affect your ability to sell your shares and the market price of your shares. Our stock price is volatile. Since our public offering on December 22, 2005 and through March 1, 2007, our common shares have traded on the NASDAQ between $3.52 and $16.88 per share. While our common shares are also traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange, the majority of trading in our common shares has taken place on the NASDAQ. The stock market in general, and the market for stocks of medical devices and pharmaceutical companies in particular, have experienced high volatility. As a result, the market price of our common shares is likely to continue to be volatile, and investors in our common shares may experience a decrease, which could be substantial, in the value of their shares, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. The market price of our common shares could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including those listed 31 Table of Contents elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section and others such as: • variations in our operating performance and the performance of our competitors or companies that are perceived to be similar to us; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results; • results of pre-clinical and clinical trials by us and our competitors; • matters relating to our agreements with Smith & Nephew, including fluctuations in sales of Smith & Nephew’s Acticoat™ products; • assertions that our intellectual property infringes on the intellectual property rights of others or other matters calling into question our intellectual property; • changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • publication of research reports by securities analysts about us or our competitors or our industry; • our failure or the failure of our competitors to meet analysts’ projections or guidance that we or our competitors may give to the market; • additions and departures of key personnel; • strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic collaborations or investments or changes in business strategy; • the passage of legislation or other regulatory developments affecting us or our industry; • speculation in the media or investment community; • changes in accounting principles; • litigation; • terrorist acts, acts of war or periods of widespread civil unrest; and • changes in general market and economic conditions. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources, and could require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments or to settle litigation. Future sales of currently restricted shares could cause the market price of our common shares to decrease significantly, even if our business is doing well. Prior to the issuance of our common shares in our initial public offering, Westaim held 100% of our outstanding common shares. As of March 7, 2007, Westaim holds approximately 74.8% of our outstanding common shares. Pursuant to the terms of a registration rights agreement between Westaim and us, Westaim may require us, on no more than two occasions, to use reasonable best efforts to register all or a portion of their registrable securities for resale in the public markets in the United States and to file a prospectus qualifying the common shares they own for resale in Canada, so long as the anticipated aggregate proceeds from the sale of such registrable securities, net of underwriting discounts and expenses would exceed $5.0 million and subject to our right to defer filing under certain circumstances. Sales of a significant number of our common shares, or the perception that these sales could occur, could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common shares and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We have also registered all common shares that we may issue under our amended equity incentive plan and upon exercise of our outstanding share options and share appreciation rights for resale in the public markets in the United States. Shares issued under our amended equity incentive plan and upon the exercise of our outstanding share options and share appreciation rights may be sold without restriction in the Canadian public markets, provided there is compliance with National Instrument 45-102. As of December 31, 2006, 9,000 common shares were issuable on the vesting of restricted share units outstanding under our amended equity incentive plan and 766,352 common shares were issuable upon the exercise of options to purchase our common shares outstanding under our amended equity incentive plan. In addition, as of December 31, 2006, 1,306,735 common shares were reserved for future awards 32 Table of Contents under our amended equity incentive plan. Westaim controls and will continue to control us and may have conflicts of interest with us or you in the future. As of December 31, 2006, Westaim owned approximately 74.8% of our outstanding common shares. In addition, certain of our directors also serve as directors of Westaim. In particular, the Chairman of our board of directors, Barry M. Heck, is the Chief Executive Officer, President and a Director of Westaim. For as long as Westaim continues to own more than 50% of our common shares, Westaim will be able to direct the election of all of the members of our board of directors. For as long as Westaim owns a significant percentage of our outstanding common shares, even if less than a majority, Westaim will be able to control or exercise a controlling influence over our business and affairs, including the incurrence of indebtedness by us, the issuance of any additional common shares or other equity securities, the repurchase of common shares and the payment of dividends, if any, and will have the power to determine or significantly influence the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including mergers, consolidations, sales or dispositions of assets, other business combinations and amendments to our articles. Westaim may take actions with which you do not agree, including actions that delay, defer or prevent a change in control of our company or that could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. In addition, Westaim may take other actions that might be favorable to Westaim but not favorable to our other shareholders. Also, if Westaim sells all or a portion of its interest remaining in us, it may cause the value of your investment to decrease. The amount of our net operating loss carryovers may be limited. The amount of net operating loss carryovers, or NOLs, which may be used by us for U.S. federal income tax purposes in any future year could be limited by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. In general, Section 382 would limit our ability to use NOLs for U.S. federal income tax purposes in the event of certain changes in ownership of our company, including as a result of sales of our common shares by Westaim and future offerings of common shares by us or as a result of certain changes in ownership of Westaim including as a result of future offerings of common shares of Westaim. If such limitations were triggered as a result of future shifts in ownership of us or Westaim, the use of our NOLs for U.S. federal income tax purposes would be limited. Any limitation of our use of NOLs could (depending on the extent of such limitation and the amount of NOLs previously used) result in us retaining less cash after payment of U.S. federal income taxes during any year in which we have taxable income (rather than losses) than we would be entitled to retain if such NOLs were available as an offset against such income for U.S. federal income tax reporting purposes. As noted elsewhere, we expect to incur losses on a quarterly and annual basis for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, we cannot predict when or if we will generate taxable income. If we are classified as a passive foreign investment company, it could have adverse tax consequences to investors. Special rules apply to certain U.S. holders that own shares in a non-U.S. corporation that is classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC. We do not believe that we will be a PFIC for the current taxable year and, based on our current business plan, we do not expect to be a PFIC in the foreseeable future. Since the determination as to whether or not a corporation is a PFIC is highly factual, however, there can be no assurance that we will not become a PFIC in future taxable years. The PFIC rules are extremely complex and could, if they apply, have significant adverse effects on the taxation of dividends received and gains realized by a U.S. holder of our common shares. Accordingly, prospective U.S. holders are strongly urged to consult their tax advisers concerning the potential application of the PFIC rules to their particular circumstances. We do not intend to pay dividends, which may adversely affect the market price of our common shares. We currently intend to retain all available cash to finance our operations and the expansion of our business and do not intend to declare or pay cash dividends on our common shares for the foreseeable future. Any future determination to pay cash dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, financial condition, current and anticipated cash needs, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. You should not rely on an investment in our company if you require or are seeking dividend income from your investment. The success of your investment will likely depend entirely upon any future appreciation of the market price of our common shares, which is uncertain and unpredictable. There is no guarantee that our common shares will appreciate in value or that the value of the common shares will not decline, perhaps substantially. 33 Table of Contents As a foreign private issuer, we are subject to different U.S. securities laws and rules than a domestic U.S. issuer, which may limit the information publicly available to our shareholders. As a foreign private issuer we are not required to comply with all the disclosure requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 such as proxy statements and therefore there may be less publicly available information about NUCRYST than if we were a U.S. domestic issuer. In addition, our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and “short-swing” profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules thereunder. Therefore, our shareholders may not know on a timely basis when our officers, directors and principal shareholders purchase or sell our common shares. All of our directors, officers and principal shareholders will be subject to the insider reporting rules under Canadian securities legislation and are required to file reports in electronic format through the System for Electronic Disclosure by Insiders, or SEDI, disclosing changes in beneficial ownership, or control or direction over, our common shares and other securities. Our shareholders can access such reports at www.sedi.ca. You may be unable to enforce actions against us or certain of our directors and officers under U.S. federal securities laws. We are a corporation organized under the laws of Alberta, Canada. One half of our directors and certain of our officers reside outside of the United States. Service of process upon such persons may be difficult or impossible to effect within the United States. Furthermore, because a substantial portion of our assets, and substantially all of the assets of our non-U.S. directors and officers and the Canadian experts named herein, are located outside of the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States, including a judgment based upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws, against us or any of such persons may not be collectible within the United States. In addition, there is doubt as to the applicability of the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities law to original actions instituted in Canada. It may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to assert U.S. securities laws claims in original actions instituted in Canada. Therefore, it may not be possible to enforce those actions against us or certain of our directors and officers. We have outstanding share options that have the potential to dilute shareholder value and cause the price of our common shares to decline. In the past, we have offered, and we expect to continue to offer, share options, or other forms of share-based compensation to our directors, officers and employees. Share options issued prior to our initial public offering have per share exercise prices below the initial public offering price per share. As of December 31, 2006, we had options outstanding to purchase 766,532 of our common shares at a weighted average exercise price of $5.75 per share. The exercise price of our outstanding share options are stated in Canadian dollars, and the foregoing weighted average exercise prices, which are stated in United States dollars, are based upon the noon buying rate reported by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on December 31, 2006. If some or all of these options are exercised and such shares are sold into the public market, the market price of our common shares may decline. Our articles and certain Canadian laws could delay or deter a change of control. Our authorized preferred shares are available for issuance from time to time at the discretion of our board of directors, without shareholder approval. Our board of directors may amend our articles to fix the number of preferred shares in, and determine the designation of the shares of, each series of preferred shares and may create, define and attach voting, dividend and other rights and restrictions to the shares of each series, subject to the rights and restrictions attached to our preferred shares as a class. The economic, voting and other rights attaching to a particular series of our preferred shares may be superior to those of our common shares and may dilute or otherwise adversely affect the voting and economic interests of the holders of our common shares. Limitations on the ability to acquire and hold our common shares may be imposed by the Competition Act (Canada). This legislation permits the Commissioner of Competition of Canada, or Commissioner, to review any acquisition of a significant interest in us. This legislation grants the Commissioner jurisdiction, for up to three years, to seek a remedial order, including an order to prohibit the acquisition, from the Canadian Competition Tribunal, which order may be granted where the Competition Tribunal finds that the acquisition substantially prevents or lessens, or is likely to prevent or lessen, competition in any market in Canada. The Investment Canada Act (Canada), or Investment Act, requires each “non-Canadian,” as determined in the Investment Act, who commences a new business activity in Canada or acquires control of an existing Canadian business, where the establishment or acquisition of control is not a reviewable transaction by Canadian authorities under the Investment Act, to file a notification in prescribed form. Subject to certain exceptions, a transaction that is reviewable under the Investment Act may not be implemented until 34 Table of Contents an application for review has been filed and the responsible Minister of the federal cabinet has determined that the investment is likely to be of “net benefit to Canada” taking into account the factors, where relevant, set out in the Investment Act. An investment in our common shares by a non-Canadian would be reviewable under the Investment Act if it were an investment to acquire control of us and the value of our assets was C$5.0 million or more as determined pursuant to the Investment Act. Any of the foregoing may make it more difficult for shareholders to replace our management, and could prevent or delay a change of control of our company and deprive or limit strategic opportunities for our shareholders to sell their shares. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 