Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in shares of our common stock involves various risks. Before deciding to invest in our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the items included as exhibits. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed by any of the following risks or by other risks that have not been identified or that we may believe are immaterial or unlikely. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Our nonperforming assets expose us to increased risk of loss. Our nonperforming assets have increased from historical levels primarily as a result of the recent economic recession. At June 30, 2012, we had total nonperforming loans of $16.1 million, or 3.26% of total assets, a $4.5 million decrease from $20.6 million total at June 30, 2011. The decrease in nonperforming loans in fiscal 2012 was primarily the result of a $7.5 million reduction due to troubled debt restructurings which were placed on accrual (performing) status after performing in accordance with their restructured terms for at least six consecutive months, partially offset by the addition of $3.0 million in new nonperforming loans in the current year. Troubled debt restructurings are considered to be impaired loans. The elevated level of troubled debt restructurings at June 30, 2011 and June 30, 2012 is related to continued weakness in the local economy. 18 Our nonperforming assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not accrue interest income on non-accrual loans and no interest income is recognized until the loan is performing and the value of the underlying collateral supports recording interest income on a cash basis. We must reserve for probable losses, which are established through a current period charge to income in the provision for loan losses, and from time to time, write down the value of properties in our other real estate owned portfolio to reflect changing market values. Additionally, there are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets as well as carrying costs such as taxes, insurance and maintenance related to our other real estate owned. Further, the resolution of nonperforming assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract us from the overall supervision of operations and other income-producing activities of United Community Bancorp. Finally, if our estimate of the allowance for loan losses is inaccurate, we will have to increase the allowance accordingly. At June 30, 2012, our allowance for loan losses amounted to $5.6 million, or 1.95% of total loans and 34.8% of nonperforming loans, compared to $5.3 million, or 1.83% of total loans and 25.9% of nonperforming loans at June 30, 2011. A significant amount of our troubled debt restructurings are subject to interest rate increases or balloon payments over the next fiscal year. Over the two fiscal years ending June 30, 2011, we restructured approximately $13.0 million in nonresidential and multi-family loans under terms which required these lending relationships to be classified as troubled debt restructurings. Two of the loan relationships, totaling $6.1 million at June 30, 2012, were granted interest rate concessions of 300-400 basis points. The loans comprising one of these loan relationships, having an aggregate carrying value of $2.0 million at June 30, 2012, are subject to balloon payments during the quarter ending December 31, 2012. The interest rate concessions on the loans comprising the second loan relationship, having an aggregate carrying value of $4.1 million at June 30, 2012, also expire during the quarter ending December 31, 2012. As of June 30, 2012, all of the loans in these loan relationships were performing in accordance with their restructured terms. Additionally, seven loan relationships were restructured using the “Note A/B” split note strategy. These loans, totaling $6.9 million at June 30, 2012, were generally given interest rate reductions of between 200 and 400 basis points and were structured with two year balloon payments. As of June 30, 2012, all of these loans were performing in accordance with their restructured terms; however, approximately $2.2 million of these loans were placed on nonaccrual status due to the loss of a major tenant. Approximately $6.0 million of these loans at June 30, 2012 are subject to a balloon payment due during the quarter ended March 31, 2013, while $900,000 is subject to a balloon payment due during the quarter ending June 30, 2013. If the financial position of the borrowers is not sufficient to enable the borrowers to service the loans upon their reversion to the higher interest rate or to satisfy the balloon payments, we may have to further restructure the loan or foreclose on the loan and liquidate the collateral, which could result in an increase in nonaccrual loans and/or additional provisions for loan losses. Our multi-family and nonresidential real estate loans expose us to increased credit risks. At June 30, 2012, our nonresidential real estate and multi-family real estate loans totaled $59.1 million and $42.3 million, respectively, or 20.5% and 14.7%, respectively, of our total loans outstanding. Nonresidential and multi-family real estate loans represented 24.9% and 38.5%, respectively, of our total nonperforming assets of $16.3 million at June 30, 2012. We have grown our loan portfolio in recent years, particularly with respect to multi-family residential and nonresidential real estate loans, but our current strategy is to control the growth of these loans, particularly those involving properties outside of our local market area until the local economy materially improves and the level of our nonperforming assets in these loan portfolios materially declines. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family mortgage loans. Also, some of our multi-family and nonresidential real estate and land borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family mortgage loan. During the two years ended June 30, 2012, we have experienced aggregate net charge-offs of $3.0 million of multi-family real estate loans and $4.9 million of nonresidential real estate loans. The continued economic recession could further increase our level of nonperforming loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which would lead to lower revenue, higher loan losses and lower earnings. Our business activities and earnings are affected by general business conditions in the United States and in our local market area. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, unemployment levels, monetary supply, consumer confidence and spending, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, and the strength of the economy in the United States generally and in our market area in particular. The national economy continues to recover from a severe recession, with rising unemployment levels, declines in real estate values and an erosion in consumer confidence. There have been dramatic declines in the U.S. housing market over the past few years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, and unemployment levels remain high. According to the U.S. Department of Labor, at June 30, 2012, the unemployment rate for Dearborn County and Ripley County was 7.7% and 8.6%, respectively, compared to the national unemployment rate of 8.2%. Further declines in the values of real estate, or other events that affect household and/or corporate incomes, could impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans in accordance with their terms. Most of our nonresidential and commercial loans are secured by real estate or made to businesses in Dearborn and Ripley Counties, Indiana. As a result of this concentration, a prolonged or more severe decline in the local economy could result in significant increases in nonperforming loans, which would negatively impact our interest income and result in higher provisions for loan losses, which would hurt our earnings. The economic decline could also result in reduced demand for credit or fee-based products and services, which would negatively impact our revenues. 19 Higher loan losses could require us to increase our allowance for loan losses through a charge to earnings. When we loan money we incur the risk that our borrowers will not repay their loans. We reserve for loan losses by establishing an allowance through a charge to earnings. The amount of this allowance is based on our assessment of loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio. The process for determining the amount of the allowance is critical to our financial results and condition. It requires subjective and complex judgments about the future, including forecasts of economic or market conditions that might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. We might underestimate the loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have loan losses in excess of the amount reserved. We might increase the allowance because of changing economic conditions. For example, in a rising interest rate environment, borrowers with adjustable-rate loans could see their payments increase. There may be a significant increase in the number of borrowers who are unable or unwilling to repay their loans, resulting in our charging off more loans and increasing our allowance. In addition, when real estate values decline, the potential severity of loss on a real estate-secured loan can increase significantly, especially in the case of loans with high combined loan-to-value ratios. The decline in the national economy and the local economies of the areas in which our loans are concentrated could result in an increase in loan delinquencies, foreclosures or repossessions, resulting in increased charge-off amounts and the need for additional loan loss provisions in future periods. In addition, our determination as to the amount of our allowance for loan losses is subject to review by our primary regulator, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency referred to as the OCC, as part of its examination process, which may result in the establishment of an additional allowance based upon the judgment of the OCC after a review of the information available at the time of its examination. Our allowance for loan losses amounted to 1.95% of total loans and 34.8% of nonperforming loans at June 30, 2012. Our allowance for loan losses at June 30, 2012 may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses. A large loss could deplete the allowance and require an increased provision to replenish the allowance, which would negatively affect earnings. As a result of our deemphasis on originating multi-family and nonresidential loans, we expect our weighted average yield on interest-earning assets will decrease in future periods. Since June 2010, we have deemphasized the origination of nonresidential and multi-family real estate loans as a strategic focus, particularly outside of Dearborn and Ripley Counties in Indiana. From June 30, 2006 through June 30, 2010, we experienced asset growth in excess of 38% in large part due to a determination to increase the size of our nonresidential and multi-family real estate portfolios and expand our lending efforts to southwestern Ohio and northern Kentucky. While these lending areas are geographically proximate to the southeastern Indiana marketplace, the southwestern Ohio and northern Kentucky real estate markets were more negatively impacted by the economic downturn. As a result, our loan relationships in these markets exhibited disproportionate loan losses and required an extraordinary investment of managerial time to monitor and mitigate the losses on these credits. In response, management has elected to deemphasize multi-family and nonresidential lending in those markets until the local economy materially improves and the level of our nonperforming assets in these segments of our loan portfolio materially declines. As a result, our one- to four-family residential mortgage loan portfolio and our investment securities portfolio will likely comprise a greater percentage of our interest-earning assets. At June 30, 2012, our nonresidential real estate and multi-family real estate loan portfolios totaled $101.4 million, or 20.5% of total assets, compared to $124.3 million, or 25.3% of total assets at June 30, 2010. We would expect that our weighted average yield on interest-earning assets will decrease in future periods because one- to four-family mortgage loans and investment securities generally yield less than nonresidential and multi-family real estate loans. We expect this strategy will make us more reliant on our non-interest income in order to generate net income. While we have identified various strategies that we are pursuing to improve earnings, including growing and diversifying our sources of non-interest income, these strategies may not succeed in generating and increasing income. If we are unable to generate or increase income, our stock price may be adversely affected. For more detail on our strategy to deemphasize the origination of multi-family and nonresidential real estate loans and our strategic initiatives to improve earnings, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Operating Strategy.” Our emphasis on one- to four-family mortgage loans exposes us to credit risks. At June 30, 2012, $139.5 million, or 48.4%, of our loan portfolio consisted of one- to four-family mortgage loans, and $31.2 million, or 10.9%, of our loan portfolio consisted of home equity loans and second mortgage loans. Recent economic conditions have resulted in declines in real estate values in our market areas. These declines in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage and home equity loans to be inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss if we seek to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral. Our primary market area depends substantially on the gaming industry and a decline in that industry could hurt our business and our prospects. Our business is concentrated in the Lawrenceburg, Indiana area. Since the mid-1990s, the economy in Lawrenceburg has been strengthened by the riverboat casinos in Lawrenceburg and nearby Rising Sun whose presence has supported the development of retail centers and job growth as well as an increase in housing development. Any event that negatively and materially impacts the gaming and tourism industry will adversely impact the Lawrenceburg economy. 20 Gaming revenue is vulnerable to fluctuations in the national economy. There has been a prolonged decline in the national economy; however, its impact on Lawrenceburg and its gaming industry has not been as significant as in other parts of the country. Tax revenue from the gaming industry has decreased in recent years, but not to the extent that it has affected civil services or other areas. A continued deterioration in economic conditions generally, and a slowdown in gaming and tourism activities in particular, could result in the following consequences, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects and expose us to a greater risk of loss: •Loan delinquencies may increase; •Problem assets and foreclosures may increase; •Demand for our products and services may decline; and •Collateral for loans made by us may decline in value, reducing the amount of money that our customers may borrow against the collateral, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our loans. The expansion of permissible gaming activities in other states, particularly in Ohio and/or Kentucky, may lead to a decline in gaming revenue in Lawrenceburg, Indiana, which could hurt our business and our prospects. Lawrenceburg, Indiana competes with other areas of the country for gaming revenue, and it is possible that the expansion of gaming operations in other states, as a result of changes in laws or otherwise, could significantly reduce gaming revenue in the Lawrenceburg area. In 2009, a vote in the State of Ohio approved casino gaming in several cities in the state, including one in downtown Cincinnati, Ohio which is scheduled to open in March 2013. The establishment of casino gaming in Ohio could have a substantial adverse effect on gaming revenue in Lawrenceburg which would adversely affect the Lawrenceburg economy and our business. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income generated by our interest-earning assets (consisting primarily of loans and, to a lesser extent, securities) and the interest expense generated by our interest-bearing liabilities (consisting primarily of deposits and, to a lesser extent, wholesale borrowings). The level of net interest income is a function of the average balance of our interest-earning assets, the average balance of our interest-bearing liabilities, and the spread between the yield on such assets and the cost of such liabilities. These factors are influenced by both the pricing and mix of our interest-earning assets and our interest-bearing liabilities which, in turn, are affected by such external factors as the local economy, competition for loans and deposits, the monetary policy of the Federal Open Market Committee of the Federal Reserve Board referred to as the FOMC and market interest rates. The cost of our deposits and short-term wholesale borrowings is largely based on short-term interest rates, the level of which is driven by the FOMC. However, the yields on our loans and securities are typically based on intermediate-term or long-term interest rates, which are set by the market and generally vary daily. The level of net interest income is therefore influenced by movements in such interest rates and the pace at which such movements occur. If the interest rates on our interest-bearing liabilities increase at a faster pace than the interest rates on our interest-earning assets, the result could be a reduction in net interest income and with it, a reduction in our earnings. Our net interest income and earnings would be similarly impacted were the interest rates on its interest-earning assets to decline more quickly than the interest rates on our interest-bearing liabilities. In addition, such changes in interest rates could affect our ability to originate loans and attract and retain deposits, the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, and the average life of our loan and securities portfolios. Changes in interest rates could also have an effect on the slope of the yield curve. A flat to inverted yield curve could cause our net interest income and net interest margin to contract, which could have a material adverse effect on our net income and cash flows and the value of our assets. Changes in interest rates particularly affect the value of our securities portfolio. Generally, the value of fixed-rate securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of equity, net of tax. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale resulting from increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. In addition, we invest in callable securities that expose us to reinvestment risk, particularly during periods of falling market interest rates when issuers of callable securities tend to call or redeem their securities. Reinvestment risk is the risk that we may have to reinvest the proceeds from called securities at lower rates of return than the rates earned on the called securities. 21 A majority of our real estate loans held for investment are adjustable-rate loans. Any rise in market interest rates may result in increased payments for borrowers who have adjustable-rate mortgage loans, increasing the possibility of default. In addition, although adjustable-rate mortgage loans help make our loan portfolio more responsive to changes in interest rates, the extent of this interest sensitivity is limited by the annual and lifetime interest rate adjustment limits. At June 30, 2012, approximately 75.6% of our loan portfolio had adjustable rates of interest. Municipal deposits are an important source of funds for us and a reduced level of those deposits may hurt our profits. Securities we pledge as collateral for our municipal deposits may be subject to risk of loss. Historically, municipal deposits, consisting primarily of tax revenues from the local river boat casino operations, have been a significant source of funds for our lending and investment activities. At June 30, 2012, $103.1 million, or 24.1% of our total deposits, consisted of municipal deposits. If our municipal deposits decrease to a level where we would need to resort to other sources of funds to support our lending and investment activities, such as borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis, the interest expense associated with these other funding sources may be higher than the rates we pay on the municipal deposits, which would adversely affect our income. Since October, 2011, we are required to pledge collateral to the Indiana Board of Depositories equal to 50% of the municipal deposits maintained at United Community Bank. The percentage that we are required to pledge as collateral will periodically vary based on a number of financial factors. This collateral is used to insure the municipal deposits of all institutions who receive deposits from Indiana municipalities, and, therefore, is subject to risk of loss if other such institutions fail and there are insufficient Federal Deposit Insurance funds available to cover the liabilities of such institutions. We are dependent upon the services of key executives. We rely heavily on our President and Chief Executive Officer, William F. Ritzmann, and on our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Elmer G. McLaughlin. The loss of Mr. Ritzmann or Mr. McLaughlin could have a material adverse impact on our operations because, as a small company, we have fewer management-level personnel that have the experience and expertise to readily replace these individuals. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have employment agreements with Messrs. Ritzmann and McLaughlin. Strong competition within our market areas could hurt our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and at times has forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to grow loans and deposits. As of June 30, 2011, the most recent date for which information is available, we held 39.1% of the deposits in Dearborn County and 8.4% of the deposits in Ripley County. Competition also makes it more difficult to hire and retain experienced employees. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market areas. Our asset valuations may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to asset valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. We must use estimates, assumptions, and judgments when financial assets and liabilities are measured and reported at fair value. Assets and liabilities carried at fair value inherently result in a higher degree of financial statement volatility. Fair values and the information used to record valuation adjustments for certain assets and liabilities are based on quoted market prices and/or other observable inputs provided by independent third-party sources, when available. When such third-party information is not available, we estimate fair value primarily by using cash flows and other financial modeling techniques utilizing assumptions such as credit quality, liquidity, interest rates and other relevant inputs. Changes in underlying factors, assumptions, or estimates in any of these areas could materially impact our future financial condition and results of operations. During periods of market disruption, including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of our assets if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the then current financial environment. In such cases, certain asset valuations may require more subjectivity and management judgment. As such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of assets as reported within our consolidated financial statements, and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 22 Financial regulatory reform may have a material impact on our operations. On July 21, 2010, the President signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act restructured the regulation of depository institutions. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Office of Thrift Supervision, which formerly regulated United Community Bank, was merged into the OCC. Mutual holding companies and savings and loan holding companies, including United Community MHC and United Community Bancorp, are now regulated by the Federal Reserve Board. Also included was the creation of a new federal agency to administer consumer protection and fair lending laws, a function that was formerly performed by the depository institution regulators. The federal preemption of state laws that was formerly accorded federally chartered depository institutions has been reduced as well and State Attorneys Generals now have greater authority to bring a suit against a federally chartered institution, such as United Community Bank, for violations of certain state and federal consumer protection laws. The Dodd-Frank Act also imposes consolidated capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies which are to be effective no more than five years from the date of enactment, and which may limit our ability to borrow at the holding company and invest the proceeds from such borrowings as capital in United Community Bank that could be leveraged to support additional growth. The Dodd-Frank Act contains various other provisions designed to enhance the regulation of depository institutions and prevent the recurrence of a financial crisis such as occurred in 2008-2009. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business and operations will not be known for years until regulations implementing the statute are written and adopted. The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on our operations, particularly through increased regulatory burden and compliance costs. In addition to the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, the federal regulatory agencies recently have begun to take stronger supervisory actions against financial institutions that have experienced increased loan losses and other weaknesses as a result of the continued economic crisis. The actions include the entering into of written agreements and cease and desist orders that place certain limitations on their operations. Federal bank regulators recently have also been using with more frequency their ability to impose individual minimal capital requirements on banks, which requirements may be higher than those imposed under the Dodd-Frank Act or which would otherwise qualify the bank as being “well capitalized” under the OCC’s prompt corrective action regulations. If we were to become subject to a consent agreement or higher individual minimum capital requirements, such action may have a negative impact on our ability to execute our business plans, as well as our ability to grow, pay dividends or engage in mergers and acquisitions and may result in restrictions in our operations. We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure. Third party vendors provide key components of United Community Bancorp’s business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access and fund distribution. While United Community Bancorp has selected these third party vendors carefully, it does not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including those which result from their failure to provide services for any reason or their poor performance of services, could adversely affect United Community Bancorp’s ability to deliver products and services to its customers and otherwise to conduct its business. Replacing these third party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense. United Community MHC’s majority control of United Community Bancorp’s common stock enables it to exercise voting control over most matters put to a vote of stockholders, including preventing sale or merger transactions or a second-step conversion transaction you may find advantageous. United Community MHC owns a majority of United Community Bancorp’s common stock and, through its board of directors, exercises voting control over most matters put to a vote of stockholders. The same directors and officers who manage United Community Bancorp and United Community Bank also manage United Community MHC. As a federally chartered mutual holding company, the board of directors of United Community MHC must ensure that the interests of depositors of United Community Bank are represented and considered in matters put to a vote of stockholders of United Community Bancorp. Therefore, the votes cast by United Community MHC may not be in your personal best interests as a stockholder. For example, United Community MHC may exercise its voting control to defeat a stockholder nominee for election to the board of directors of United Community Bancorp. In addition, stockholders are not able to force a merger or second-step conversion transaction without the consent of United Community MHC. Some stockholders may desire a sale or merger transaction, since stockholders typically receive a premium for their shares, or a second-step conversion transaction, since fully converted institutions tend to trade at higher multiples than mutual holding companies. 23 Federal Reserve Board policy on remutualization transactions could prohibit acquisition of United Community Bancorp, which may adversely affect our stock price. Current Federal Reserve Board regulations permit a mutual holding company to be acquired by a mutual institution in a remutualization transaction. The possibility of a remutualization transaction has resulted in a degree of takeover speculation for mutual holding companies that is reflected in the per share price of mutual holding companies’ common stock. However, United Community Bancorp’s former regulator, the Office of Thrift Supervision, had adopted a policy statement indicating that it viewed remutualization transactions as raising significant issues concerning disparate treatment of minority stockholders and mutual members of the target entity and raising issues concerning the effect on the mutual members of the acquiring entity. The Federal Reserve Board has not adopted a similar policy statement or issued any regulations on the matter and future Federal Reserve Board regulations may negatively affect United Community Bancorp. Under certain circumstances, the Federal Reserve Board may give these issues special scrutiny and reject applications providing for the remutualization of a mutual holding company unless the applicant can clearly demonstrate that the Federal Reserve Board’s concerns are not warranted in the particular case. Should the Federal Reserve Board prohibit or otherwise restrict these transactions in the future, our per share stock price may be adversely affected. Federal Reserve Board regulations could limit our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. United Community Bank, our wholly-owned subsidiary, is the primary source of cash with which we pay the cash dividend on our common stock. Federal Reserve Board regulations impose limitations upon all capital distributions by a savings institution, including cash dividends. Under the regulations, a notice must be filed with the Federal Reserve Board 30 days prior to declaring a dividend, with a notice to the OCC. The Federal Reserve Board may disapprove a dividend notice if the proposed dividend raises safety and soundness concerns, the institution would be undercapitalized following the distribution or the distribution would otherwise be contrary to a statute, regulation or agreement with the OCC. In the event United Community Bank’s capital falls below its regulatory requirements or the OCC notifies it that it is in need of increased supervision, United Community Bank’s ability to make capital distributions, including cash dividends, could be restricted, thereby eliminating the primary source of cash with which we pay our dividend to our stockholders. Additionally, if United Community Bank’s asset quality deteriorates, the Federal Reserve Board may impose limitations on United Community Bancorp’s ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. The amount of dividends United Community Bancorp pays on its common stock, if any, may be limited by the ability of United Community MHC to waive receipt of dividends. United Community MHC owns a majority of United Community Bancorp’s outstanding stock. Prior to the quarter ended June 30, 2012, United Community MHC waived its right to receive dividends on the shares of United Community Bancorp that it owns, which means the amount of dividends paid to public stockholders was likely significantly higher than it would have been if United Community MHC had accepted dividends during the periods prior to June 30, 2012. The Federal Reserve Board has adopted an interim final rule which requires United Community MHC to notify the Federal Reserve Board if it proposes to waive receipt of dividends from United Community Bancorp. In addition, the interim final rule also requires that United Community MHC obtain the approval of a majority of the eligible votes of members before it can waive dividends. The Federal Reserve Board reviews dividend waiver notices on a case-by-case basis, and, the Federal Reserve Board may not object to such a waiver (i) if the mutual holding company involved has, prior to December 1, 2009, reorganized into a mutual holding company structure, engaged in a minority stock offering and waived dividends; (ii) the board of directors of the mutual holding company expressly determines that a waiver of the dividend is consistent with its fiduciary duties to members, and (iii) the waiver would not be detrimental to the safe and sound operation of the savings association subsidiaries of the holding company. While United Community MHC is grandfathered for purposes of the Federal Reserve Board dividend waiver regulations, we cannot assume that the Federal Reserve Board will grant a dividend waiver request and, if granted, there can be no assurance as to the conditions, if any, the Federal Reserve Board will place on future dividend waiver requests by grandfathered mutual holding companies such as United Community MHC. As of the filing of this Form 10-K, the Federal Reserve Board has not granted United Community MHC a waiver for dividends paid by United Community Bancorp for any quarter ending after March 31, 2012. United Community MHC has not determined whether it will seek, and if sought, cannot predict if it will be able to obtain, the member vote required for the dividend waiver from the Federal Reserve Board, and did not waive dividends for the quarter ended June 30, 2012. The inability to waive dividends to United Community MHC in future quarters may result in a reduction or suspension of dividends paid to United Community Bancorp stockholders. Our mutual holding company structure limits our ability to raise additional equity capital. Even though we are already well capitalized, our mutual holding company structure limits our ability to raise additional equity capital without undertaking a second-step conversion transaction because we cannot issue stock in an amount that would cause United Community MHC to own less than a majority of our outstanding shares. Currently, United Community MHC owns approximately 59% of our outstanding shares. In addition, any stock issuance by us must be approved by the Federal Reserve Board and must be structured in a manner similar to a mutual to stock conversion, including the stock purchase priorities accorded to members of the mutual holding company, unless otherwise approved by the Federal Reserve Board. These requirements limit our ability to control the timing and structure of a stock offering. 24 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 25 