D. Risk Factors Some of the following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and our business in general. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected and the trading price of our securities could decline. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business We may not be able to obtain sufficient funds to grow or effectively manage our growth. A principal focus of our strategy is to grow by expanding our business. Our future growth will depend on a number of factors which include our ability to: · increase our fleet of bunkering and specialty tankers; · identify suitable markets for expansion; 4 · consummate vessel acquisitions; · integrate acquired vessels successfully with our existing operations; · obtain required financing for our existing and new operations and business lines; · hire, train and retain qualified personnel to manage and operate our growing business and fleet; · improve our operating and financial systems and controls; · maintain or improve our credit control procedures; · obtain and maintain required governmental authorizations, licenses and permits for new and existing operations; · provide timely service at competitive prices; and · attract and retain customers. A deficiency in any of these factors may negatively impact our ability to generate cash flow, raise money or effectively manage our growth. In addition, competition from other companies could reduce our expansion or acquisition opportunities, cause us to lose business opportunities, competitive advantages or customers or cause us to pay higher or charge lower prices than we might otherwise pay or charge. Furthermore, competitive conditions in the markets that we may consider for future expansion may be more adverse to us than those in markets served by our existing service centers, and any new service centers that we may open may be less profitable than our existing service centers. Businesses we may acquire in the future will expose us to increased operating risks. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to explore acquisition opportunities of marine fuel supply and complementary businesses. This expansion could expose us to additional business and operating risks and uncertainties, including: · the ability to effectively integrate and manage acquired businesses; · the ability to realize our investment in the acquired businesses; · the diversion of management's time and attention from other business concerns; · the risk of entering markets in which we may have no or limited direct prior experience; · the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses; · the risk that an acquisition could reduce our future earnings; and · exposure to unknown liabilities. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in any particular transaction, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain all such risks. In addition, future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and other expenses. Future acquisitions may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities and may affect the market price of our common shares. Difficulties encountered with acquisitions may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to obtain financing for our growth or to fund our future capital expenditures, which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. In order to fund future vessel acquisitions, new service centers and products, increased working capital levels or capital expenditures, we will be required to use cash from operations, incur borrowings or raise capital through the sale of debt or additional equity securities. Use of cash from operations will reduce cash available for dividend 5 distributions to you. Our ability to obtain additional bank financing or to access the capital markets for any future offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering, as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain the funds for future vessel acquisitions, new service centers, products or capital expenditures could impact our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. The issuance of additional equity securities would dilute your interest in our Company and reduce dividends payable to you. Even if we are successful in obtaining additional bank financing, paying debt service would limit cash available for working capital and increasing our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Due to the lack of diversification in our lines of business, adverse developments in the marine fuel supply business would negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. We rely primarily on the revenues generated from our business of physical supply and marketing of refined marine fuel and lubricants to end customers. Due to the lack of diversification in our lines of business, an adverse development in our marine fuel supply business would have a significant impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Because of the limited supply of secondhand double hull bunkering tankers, we may not be able to acquire secondhand double hull bunkering tankers on economically acceptable terms which could impede our growth and negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. Our ability to grow is in part dependent on our ability to expand our fleet through acquisitions of suitable secondhand double hull bunkering tankers. We believe that the availability of secondhand double hull bunkering tankers in the open market is limited. We may not be able to locate suitable secondhand tankers or negotiate acceptable purchase contracts with their owners or obtain financing for such acquisitions on economically acceptable terms. Our failure to locate and acquire suitable secondhand double hull bunkering tankers could limit the future growth of our business and have a material impact on our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. Our purchase of secondhand vessels carries risks associated with the quality of those vessels because secondhand vessels typically are not protected by builders' or sellers' warranties. Our fleet renewal and expansion strategy includes the acquisition of secondhand vessels as well as newbuildings. Since December 2006, we have acquired four secondhand bunkering tankers. Unlike newbuildings, secondhand vessels typically do not carry warranties with respect to their condition. Our inspections of secondhand vessels would normally not provide us with as much knowledge of its condition as we would possess if the vessel had been built for us and operated by us throughout its life. Repairs and maintenance costs for secondhand vessels are difficult to predict and may be more substantial than for vessels we have operated since they were built. These costs could decrease our profits and reduce our liquidity. Delays or defaults by the shipyards in the construction of new vessels could increase our expenses and diminish our net income and cash flows. We have entered into newbuilding contracts for the construction of double hull bunkering tankers; we have 26 vessels remaining to take delivery on. In addition, we have entered into newbuilding contracts for the construction of two specialty tankers and have an option to build four additional specialty tankers. All of our newbuilding contracts are with shipyards with which we have had no prior business dealings. These projects are subject to the risk of delay or defaults by the shipyards caused by, among other things, unforeseen quality or engineering problems, work stoppages, weather interference, unanticipated cost increases, delays in receipt of necessary equipment, and inability to obtain the requisite permits or approvals. In accordance with industry practice, in the event the shipyards are unable or unwilling to deliver the tankers, we may not have substantial remedies. Failure to construct or deliver the ships by the shipyards or any significant delays could increase our expenses and diminish our net income and cash flows. International authorities and flag states may delay implementation of the phase-out of single hull tankers which may lessen the competitive advantage we hope to gain by acquiring double hull bunkering tankers. Our strategy involves capitalizing on the phase-out of single hull bunkering tankers. Under environmental protection laws and regulations, the European Union, or the EU and the International Maritime Organization, or the IMO (the United Nations agency for maritime safety), have already banned single hull tankers of 5,000 dwt and above from 6 carrying HGO, which includes most of the grades of marine fuel, as of October 2003 and as of April 2005, respectively, and are scheduled to ban all single hull tankers of less than 5,000 dwt but above 600 dwt from carrying HGO in 2008. Both the EU and the IMO will also require a phase-out of all single hull tankers in 2010. The EU and the IMO, however, allow for exemptions. Under the EU regulations, for example, oil tankers operated exclusively in ports and inland navigation may be exempted from the double hull requirements provided they are duly certified under inland water legislation. Under the IMO regulations, a flag state may allow single hull tankers conforming to certain technical specifications to continue to operate until the earlier of 2015 or the 25th anniversary of the vessel's delivery. A flag state may also allow single hull tankers to carry HGO if the vessels are either engaged in voyages exclusively within its jurisdiction or jurisdiction of another party upon such party's agreement. Our future success will depend, in part, on the timely and comprehensive implementation of the phase-out of single hull tankers. Any delay or limitation in application of the environmental protection laws and regulations could limit our anticipated growth or other anticipated benefits because our strategy involves employing and acquiring secondhand double hull bunkering tankers. The nature of a portion of our assets and business in the United Kingdom could expose us to significant compliance costs and liabilities. Our operations involving the storage of fuel in the United Kingdom are subject to stringent laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment, otherwise relating to protection of the environment, operational safety and related matters. Compliance with these laws and regulations increases our overall cost of business in the United Kingdom, including our capital costs to maintain and upgrade equipment and facilities, or claims for damages to property or persons resulting from our operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory and remedial liabilities, and the issuance of injunctions that may restrict or prohibit our United Kingdom operations or even claims of damages to property or persons resulting from our United Kingdom operations. The laws and regulations applicable to our United Kingdom operations are subject to change, and we cannot provide any assurance that compliance with current and future laws and regulations will not have a material effect on our results of operations or earnings. A discharge of hazardous materials into the environment could, to the extent such event is not insured, subject us to substantial expense, including both the cost to comply with applicable laws and regulations and liability to private parties for personal injury or property damage. We have a limited history of marketing marine lubricants or operating specialty tankers and we may not be able to enter, or effectively manage our entry into these new lines of business, which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. We have recently commenced the marketing of our own brand of marine lubricants and plan to operate a fleet of double hull products tankers with roll-on roll-off facilities and refueling capabilities for fuel trucks designed to make distribution of gasoline and other refined petroleum products to island economies. The marketing of marine lubricants and the acquisition and management of specialty tankers will impose significant responsibilities on our management and staff. We have limited experience marketing marine lubricants and no experience in distributing refined petroleum products to island economies nor do we have any history of operating or competing in these lines of business over significant periods. As we have a limited history of marketing marine lubricants and operating specialty tankers, it is difficult to predict our management needs. Accordingly, we may be required to increase the number of our employees. We will also have to market our products and services in new locations and to an expanded customer base. We may not be successful in executing our growth plans and may incur significant expenses and losses in connection with our future line of business which could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. We rely on purchases from key customers and our results of operations may decrease if some of our key customers reduce or terminate their purchases. Generally, we have not derived a significant amount of revenue from written volume commitments from our key customers or any other understandings with our key customers that relate to future purchases. Purchases by our key customers could be reduced or terminated at any time. A substantial reduction or a termination of purchases by any of our key customers could decrease our results of operation. 7 We extend trade credit to most of our customers and our financial position and results of operations may diminish if we are unable to collect accounts receivable. We extend trade credit to most of our customers. Our success in attracting business has been due, in part, to our willingness to extend trade credit on an unsecured basis to our customers. As of December 31, 2007, 61 of our customers had outstanding balances with us of at least $1.0 million under the lines of credit that we have extended to them. Our credit procedures and policies do not fully eliminate customer credit risk. Any credit losses, if significant, would diminish our financial position and results of operations. We depend on a limited number of suppliers, which makes us susceptible to supply shortages or price fluctuations that could diminish our operating results. We currently purchase refined marine petroleum products from a limited number of suppliers. If our relationship with any of our other key suppliers terminates or if any of our key suppliers suffers a disruption in production, we may not be able to obtain a sufficient quantity of refined marine fuel and lubricants on acceptable terms and without interruption in our business. We may experience difficulties and delays in obtaining marine fuel from alternative sources of supply. Any interruption or delay in the supply of marine fuel, or the inability to obtain fuel from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, would impair our ability to meet scheduled deliveries to our customers and could cause customers to cancel orders. The refined marine fuel that we purchase from our suppliers may fail to meet the specifications that we have agreed to supply to our customers and, as a result, we could lose business from those customers and be subject to claims or other liabilities. If the refined marine fuel that we purchase from our suppliers fails to meet the specifications we have agreed to supply to our customers, we could lose our customers and be subject to claims or other liabilities. The loss of customers and increased liabilities would reduce our earnings and could have a material adverse effect on our business, weaken our financial condition and reduce our results of operations. Failure by Aegean Oil or other third-party physical suppliers to provide services to us and our customers as agreed could subject us to customer claims and negatively affect our results. We have contracted with Aegean Oil to provide various services to our customers in Greece, including fueling of vessels in port and at sea. Aegean Oil is a related company owned and controlled by members of Mr. Melisanidis' family. Mr. Melisanidis, our founder and Head of Corporate Development, may also be deemed a control person of Aegean Oil and other affiliated entities for United States securities law purposes, but Mr. Melisanidis disclaims such control. In connection with our limited marine fuel trading activities, from time to time we contract with other third-party physical suppliers to deliver marine fuel to our customers in locations where we do not have service centers. The failure of Aegean Oil or any other third-party physical supplier to perform these services in accordance with the terms we have agreed with them and our customers could affect our relationships with our customers and subject us to claims and other liabilities which could harm our business or negatively affect our financial results. If Aegean Oil or any of the other third-party physical suppliers fails to perform its obligations to us, you will not have any recourse directly against Aegean Oil or the other third-party physical suppliers. Agreements between us, Aegean Oil and other affiliated entities may be more favorable or less favorable than agreements that we could obtain from unaffiliated third parties. The marine fuel service supply agreement and other agreements we have with Aegean Oil, our largest supplier of marine petroleum products, as well as other agreements we have with affiliated entities have been made in the context of an affiliated relationship. Aegean Oil and other affiliated entities are owned and controlled by members of Mr. Melisanidis' family. Mr. Melisanidis has also been involved historically with our related companies and had a leadership role with respect to the promotion of their products and services. Because immediately prior to the completion of our initial public offering we were majority-owned by Leveret International Inc., or Leveret, a company controlled by Mr. Melisanidis, the negotiation of the marine fuel service supply agreement and our other contractual arrangements may have resulted in prices and other terms that are more favorable or less favorable to us than terms we might have obtained in arm's-length negotiations with unaffiliated third parties for similar services. Moreover, Aegean Oil and other affiliated entities remain our related companies, and we remain subject to similar risks in future business dealings with these parties. 8 The value of our marine fuel inventory is subject to price fluctuations which may result in reduced value of our inventory and cause us to suffer financial loss. Due to the nature of our business, we may increase the volume of our marine fuel inventories. Depending upon the price and price movement of refined marine fuel, our marine fuel inventories may subject us to a risk of financial loss. Pricing terms with our suppliers and customers and hedges by way of oil futures or other instruments, should we enter into them, may not adequately protect us in the event of a substantial downward movement in the price of marine fuel. Our business and our customers' businesses are subject to currency exchange risks which could negatively affect our results of operations, cash flows and reduce our profitability. Generally, in all our service centers, we invoice our customers for the sale and delivery of marine petroleum products in U.S. dollars. Many of our customers are foreign customers and may be required to obtain U.S. dollars to pay for our products and services. A rapid depreciation or devaluation in a currency affecting our customers could have an adverse effect on our customers' operations and their ability to convert local currency to U.S. dollars to make required payments to us. This would in turn result in higher credit losses for us, which would reduce our results of operations and cash flows. We generate almost all of our revenues and incur the majority of our expenses in U.S. dollars. In the year ended December 31, 2007, we incurred not more than 4% of our operating expenses and general and administrative expenses in currencies other than the U.S. dollar—primarily the Euro, the UAE dirham, the Gibraltar pound, the Jamaican dollar and the Singapore dollar. Changes in the rates of exchange between these currencies and the U.S. dollar would lead to deviations from our budgeted operating expenses, which would affect our financial results. When translated into U.S. dollars, expenses incurred in currencies other than the U.S. dollar increase when the value of the U.S. dollar falls, which reduces our profitability. We rely on the expertise of our senior management and our inability to retain key personnel could interrupt our business and limit our growth. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the abilities and efforts of our management team and our ability to hire and retain key members of our management team. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Difficulty in hiring and retaining key personnel could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. We do not intend to maintain "key man" life insurance on any of our officers or our board members, including Peter C. Georgiopoulos, the Chairman of our board of directors, and Mr. Melisanidis, our founder and Head of Corporate Development. We believe that Mr. Georgiopoulos is an important member of our board of directors and Mr. Melisanidis is an important member of our management team and that the loss of the services or involvement in our business on the part of either or both of them would have a material adverse effect on our Company. We have entered into employment agreements with Mr. Melisanidis, E. Nikolas Tavlarios, our President, and Ziad Nakhleh, our Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer. As we expand our fleet, we may not be able to recruit suitable employees and crew for our tankers which may limit our growth and cause our financial performance to suffer. As we expand our fleet, we will need to recruit suitable crew, shoreside, administrative and management personnel. We may not be able to continue to hire suitable employees as we expand our fleet of tankers. If we are unable to recruit suitable employees and crews, we may not be able to provide our services to customers, our growth may be limited and our financial performance may suffer. A portion of our employees are covered by national collective bargaining agreements which set minimum standards for employment, and labor interruptions could disrupt our business. A portion of our employees from Greece and from the Philippines are covered by national collective bargaining agreements which set minimum standards for employment. Industrial action or other labor unrest, such as the dockworkers strike in Piraeus, Greece that affected our Greek service center in 2007, could disrupt our business. If not resolved in a timely and cost-effective manner, such industrial action or other labor unrest could prevent or hinder our operations from being carried out normally and could disrupt our business and reduce our results of operations and cash flows. 9 We are a holding company, and we depend primarily on the ability of our operating subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial and other obligations and to make dividend payments. We are a holding company, and we have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to satisfy our financial and other obligations and to pay dividends depends primarily on the performance of our operating subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. If we are unable to obtain funds from our operating subsidiaries, we will not be able to pay dividends unless we obtain funds from other sources. We may not be able to obtain the necessary funds from other sources on terms acceptable to us. We may not be able to borrow amounts under our senior secured credit facility and restrictive covenants in our senior secured credit facility may impose financial and other restrictions that may limit our corporate activities. In December 2007, we entered into a senior secured credit facility with an international commercial bank, which we call our senior secured credit facility. Our senior secured credit facility contains covenants that impose operating and financing restrictions on us. Such restrictions affect, and in many respects limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to pay dividends, incur additional indebtedness, create liens, sell assets, or engage in mergers or acquisitions. These restrictions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs or otherwise restrict corporate activities. These restrictions could adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities which will be in our interest. We may not achieve sufficient earnings to pay dividends to our shareholders. We currently intend to pay regular cash dividends on a quarterly basis. We will make such dividend payments to our shareholders only if our board of directors, acting in its sole discretion, determines that payments of dividends would be in our best interest and in compliance with relevant legal and contractual requirements. The principal business factors that our board of directors expects to consider when determining the timing and amount of dividend payments will be our earnings, financial condition and cash requirements at the time. U.S. investors in our Company could suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company. If, for any taxable year, our passive income or our assets that produce or are held for production of passive income exceed levels provided by law, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to our shareholders. If we are classified as a PFIC, a U.S. Holder of our common shares could be subject to increased tax liability upon the sale or other disposition of our common shares or upon the receipt of amounts treated as "excess distributions." Under these rules, the excess distribution and any gain upon a sale would be allocated ratably over the U.S. Holder's holding period for the common shares, and the amount allocated to the current taxable year and any taxable year prior to the first taxable year in which we were a PFIC would be taxed as ordinary income in the current taxable year. The amounts allocated to each of the other taxable years would be subject to tax at the highest marginal rates on ordinary income in effect for the applicable class of taxpayer for that year, and an interest charge for the deemed tax deferral benefit would be imposed on the resulting tax liability as if such tax liability had been due with respect to each such other taxable year. The tax liability with respect to the amount allocated to years prior to the year of the disposition or distribution cannot be offset by any net operating losses. In addition, holders of shares in a PFIC may not receive a "step-up" in basis on shares acquired from a decedent. U.S. Holders should consult with their own U.S. tax advisors with respect to the U.S. tax consequences of investing in our common shares as well as the specific application of the "excess distribution" and other rules discussed in this paragraph. For a discussion of how we might be characterized as a PFIC and related tax consequences, please see Taxation — "United States Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders—Passive Foreign Investment Company." We may not be exempt from Liberian taxation which would materially reduce our net income and cash flow. The Republic of Liberia enacted a revised income tax act effective as of January 1, 2001, or the New Act. In contrast to the income tax law previously in effect since 1977, or the Prior Law, which the New Act repealed in its entirety, the New Act does not distinguish between the taxation of a non-resident Liberian corporation, such as our Liberian subsidiary, Aegean Marine Petroleum S.A., or AMP, which conducts no business in Liberia and was wholly exempted from tax under the Prior Law, and the taxation of ordinary resident Liberian corporations. In 2004, the Liberian Ministry of Finance issued regulations pursuant to which a non-resident domestic corporation, such as our Liberian subsidiary, AMP, will not be subject to tax under the New Act retroactive to January 1, 2001, or the New Regulations. In addition, the Liberian Ministry of Justice issued an opinion that the New Regulations 10 were a valid exercise of the regulatory authority of the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, assuming that the New Regulations are valid, AMP will be wholly exempt from Liberian income tax as under the Prior Law. If our Liberian subsidiary, AMP, were to be subject to Liberian income tax under the New Act, it would be subject to tax at a rate of 35% on its worldwide income. As a result, its, and consequently our, net income and cash flow would be materially reduced by the amount of the applicable tax. In addition, we, as shareholder of the Liberian subsidiary, would be subject to Liberian withholding tax on dividends paid by AMP at rates ranging from 15% to 20%. If we become subject to tax in the jurisdictions in which we operate, our net income and cash flow would decrease. Our business is affected by taxes imposed on the purchase and sale of refined marine petroleum products in various jurisdictions in which we operate from time to time. These taxes include sales, excise, goods and services taxes, value-added taxes, and other taxes. We currently do not pay a material amount of tax, including withholding taxes, in any jurisdiction in which we operate. As a result of changes in our operations, tax laws or the application by tax authorities of these laws or our failure to comply with tax laws or otherwise, we may become liable for an increased amount of tax in any jurisdiction. An increased liability for taxes would decrease our net income and cash flow. Our insurance policies may not be adequate to cover our losses and because we obtain some of our insurance policies through protection and indemnity associations, we may be subject to calls in amounts based not only on our own claim records, but also the claim records of other members of the protection and indemnity associations which could expose us to additional expenses. We carry insurance policies to protect us against most of the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of our business, including marine hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, which includes pollution risks, crew insurance, and war risk insurance. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from our operational risks. Additionally, our insurers may refuse to pay particular claims and our insurance policies may be voidable by the insurers if we take, or fail to take, certain action, such as failing to maintain certification of our vessels with applicable maritime regulatory organizations. Any significant uninsured or under-insured loss or liability could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. In addition, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates in the future during adverse insurance market conditions. As a result of the September 11, 2001 attacks, the United States response to the attacks and related concerns regarding terrorism, insurers have increased premiums and reduced or restricted coverage for losses caused by terrorist acts generally. Accordingly, premiums payable for terrorist coverage have increased substantially and the level of terrorist coverage has been significantly reduced. We may also be subject to calls or premiums in amounts based not only on our claim records but also the claim records of other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive insurance coverage for tort liability, including pollution-related liability. Our payment of these calls could result in significant expense to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Moreover, the protection and indemnity associations and other insurance providers reserve the right to make changes in insurance coverage with little or no advance notice. Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which could disrupt our cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flows and require us to pay a significant amount of money to have the arrest lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions under the "sister ship" theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel that is subject to the claimant's maritime lien and any "associated" vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert "sister ship" liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another vessel in our fleet. 11 Terrorist attacks, piracy, and international hostilities have previously affected the shipping industry, and any future attacks could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. Terrorist attacks, such as the attack on the MT Limburg in October 2002, could adversely affect our operations and directly impact our vessels or charterers. We conduct our marine fuel supply operations outside of the United States, and our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends could suffer by changing economic, political and government conditions in the countries and regions where our vessels are employed or registered. Moreover, we operate in a sector of the economy that is likely to be adversely impacted by the effects of political instability, terrorist or other attacks, war, piracy, or international hostilities. Our principal shareholders control our Company and may not act in the best interests of our other shareholders. Our principal shareholders, Leveret, a company controlled by Mr. Melisanidis, and Peter C. Georgiopoulos, the Chairman of our board of directors, own 35.3% and 9.9% of our outstanding common shares, respectively. On July 19, 2006, Leveret and AMPNInvest LLC, or AMPNInvest, a Marshall Islands limited liability company that has been succeeded by Messrs. Georgiopoulos and John Tavlarios, entered into a Framework Agreement, as amended, which affects our management and governance. We refer you to the discussion in the section of this report entitled "Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Framework Agreement" for a description of the Framework Agreement. Pursuant to the Framework Agreement, Leveret and AMPNInvest agreed to identify, mutually agree on and elect seven members to serve on our board of directors effective upon the closing of our initial public offering, which took place on December 13, 2006. The Framework Agreement also provides that Leveret and Messrs. Georgiopoulos and Tavlarios, as successors to AMPNInvest, will vote in favor of our board of directors, including the independent directors and the nominees of our board, and in accordance with our board’s recommendations on all matters proposed for a vote or consent of our shareholders for the duration of the Framework Agreement. The Framework Agreement expires on December 13, 2011, the fifth anniversary of the completion of our initial public offering, unless terminated earlier pursuant to its provisions. Accordingly both Mr. Melisanidis, through Leveret, and Messrs. Georgiopoulos and Tavlarios may be deemed to control our Company. Leveret and Messrs. Georgiopoulos and Tavlarios may serve their own interests, which may not be aligned with the interests of other shareholders when voting in favor of our board of directors, including its nominees, or in accordance with our board’s recommendations on all matters proposed for a vote or consent of our shareholders. Neither our Company nor our shareholders will be able to enforce the Framework Agreement. The Framework Agreement between AMPNInvest and Leveret does not name any third-party beneficiaries. Leveret and Messrs. Georgiopoulos and John Tavlarios, as successors to AMPNInvest, are free to mutually terminate the Framework Agreement at any time. Upon termination, Leveret and Messrs. Georgiopoulos and Tavlarios will be free to vote for nominees not approved by our board of directors and on matters proposed for a vote or consent of the shareholders in a manner not recommended by our board. Alternatively, if either party breaches the Framework Agreement, our Company and its shareholders will not be able to enforce the Framework Agreement. We refer you to the discussion in the section of this report entitled "Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Framework Agreement" for a description of the Framework Agreement. In addition, Leveret and Messrs. Georgiopoulos and Tavlarios who together own 47.8% of our outstanding common shares are obligated to vote in favor of our board of directors, including its nominees, and in accordance with our board’s recommendations on all matters proposed for a vote or consent of our shareholders even if a majority of the other shareholders vote otherwise. Mr. Melisanidis, through Leveret, may continue to be able to exercise effective control over our Company and may have conflicts of interest with our other shareholders. Leveret, a company controlled by Mr. Melisanidis, owns 35.3% of our outstanding common shares. For so long as Leveret is controlled by Mr. Melisanidis and owns a significant percentage of our outstanding common shares, Mr. Melisanidis may be able to exercise effective control over us and will be able to strongly influence the outcome of shareholder votes on other matters, including the adoption or amendment of provisions in our articles of incorporation or bylaws and approval of possible mergers, amalgamations, control transactions and other significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, merger, amalgamations, consolidation, takeover or other business combination. This concentration of ownership could also discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, which could in turn have an adverse effect on the market price of our common shares. 12 Mr. Melisanidis, through Leveret, may not necessarily act in accordance with the best interests of other shareholders. Moreover, Mr. Melisanidis and members of Mr. Melisanidis' family hold significant interest in our related companies. For further discussion, please refer to the section of this report entitled "Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions." We cannot assure you that the interests of Mr. Melisanidis will coincide with the interests of other holders of our common stock. To the extent that conflicts of interests may arise, Mr. Melisanidis, through Leveret, may vote in a manner adverse to us or to you or other holders of our securities. We have entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Melisanidis. The employment agreement restricts Mr. Melisanidis' ability to compete with us during the term of the employment agreement and 12 months following its termination. If we are unable to enforce such restrictions on Mr. Melisanidis against competing with us, any direct or indirect competition from Mr. Melisanidis could be particularly damaging to us. Some of our directors are affiliated with other companies, which could result in conflicts of interest. Some of our directors also serve as directors of other public companies and are employees or have investments in companies in industries related to ours. In particular, Mr. Georgiopoulos, the Chairman of our board of directors, is Chairman of the board of directors of General Maritime Corporation, or General Maritime, and Genco Shipping & Trading Limited. Also, John Tavlarios and John O. Hatab, who serve as our directors, are also directors of General Maritime. Messrs. Georgiopoulos and Tavlarios are also executive officers of General Maritime. As such, General Maritime may be deemed one of our affiliates for United States securities laws purposes. To the extent that the other entities with which our directors may be affiliated compete with us for business opportunities, prospects or financial resources, or participate in ventures in which we may participate, our directors may face actual or apparent conflicts of interest in connection with decisions that could have different implications for us and the other companies. These decisions may relate to corporate opportunities, corporate strategies, potential acquisitions of businesses, intercompany agreements, competition, the issuance or disposition of securities, the election of new or additional directors and other matters. Such potential conflicts may delay or limit the opportunities available to us, and it is possible that conflicts may be resolved in a manner adverse to us. Our status as a foreign private issuer exempts us from certain of the corporate governance standards of the New York Stock Exchange, limiting the protections afforded to investors. We are a "foreign private issuer" within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange corporate governance standards. Under the New York Stock Exchange rules, a foreign private issuer may elect to comply with the practice of its home country and not to comply with certain New York Stock Exchange corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that: · a majority of the board of directors consists of independent directors; · both a nominating and corporate governance and a compensation committee be established and composed entirely of independent directors and each committee has a written charter addressing its purpose and responsibilities; · an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees be undertaken; · non-management directors meet in regular executive sessions without members of management in attendance; · a company has corporate governance guidelines or a code of ethics; and · an audit committee consists of a minimum of three independent directors. We voluntarily comply with most of the New York Stock Exchange rules. However, investors will not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all New York Stock Exchange corporate governance requirements. 13 Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger, amalgamation or acquisition, which could reduce the market price of our common shares. Several provisions of our articles of incorporation and our bylaws could make it difficult for our shareholders to change the composition of our board of directors in any one year, preventing them from changing the composition of management. In addition, the same provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that shareholders may consider favorable. These provisions include: · authorizing our board of directors to issue "blank check" preferred stock without shareholder approval; · providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; · prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; · authorizing the removal of directors only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 70% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote for the directors; · prohibiting shareholder action by written consent unless the written consent is signed by all shareholders entitled to vote on the action; · limiting the persons who may call special meetings of shareholders; and · establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by shareholders at shareholder meetings. In addition, we may consider establishing a shareholder rights plan that will make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the support of our board of directors and principal shareholders. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public shareholders to benefit from a change in control and, as a result, may reduce the market price of our common stock and your ability to realize any potential change of control premium. We are incorporated in the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and bylaws and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, or the BCA. The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the law of the Republic of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in the United States. The rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in the Marshall Islands may differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in the United States. The BCA provides that it is to be interpreted according to the laws of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions. However, there have been few, if any, court cases interpreting the BCA in the Marshall Islands and we cannot predict whether Marshall Islands courts would reach the same conclusions as United States courts. Thus, you may have more difficulty protecting your interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction which has developed a relatively more substantial body of case law. Risk Factors Relating to Our Industry Adverse conditions in the shipping industry may reduce the demand for our products and services and negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is focused on the physical supply and marketing of refined marine fuel and marine lubricants to the shipping industry. Adverse economic conditions in the shipping industry, such as low charter rates or high operating costs, may have an adverse effect on our customers. In addition, any political instability, terrorist activity, piracy activity or military action that disrupts shipping operations will adversely affect our customers. Any adverse conditions in the shipping industry may reduce the demand for our products and services and negatively affect our results of operations and weaken our financial condition. 14 Material disruptions in the availability or supply of oil may reduce the supply of our products and have a material impact on our operating results, revenues and costs. The success of our business depends on our ability to purchase, sell and deliver marine petroleum products to our customers. Material disruptions in the availability or supply of oil may have an adverse effect on our suppliers. In addition, any political instability, natural disasters, terrorist activity, military action or other similar conditions may disrupt the availability or supply of oil and consequently decrease the supply of refined marine fuel. Decreased availability or supply of marine fuel may reduce our operating results, revenues and costs. Changes in the market price of petroleum may increase our credit losses, reduce our liquidity and decrease our profitability. Increases in fuel prices can adversely affect our customers' businesses, and consequently increase our credit losses. Increases in fuel prices could also affect the credit limits extended to us by our suppliers and our working capital requirements, potentially affecting our liquidity and profitability. In addition, increases in oil prices will make it more difficult for our customers to operate and could reduce demand for our services. Conversely, a rapid decline in fuel prices could decrease our profitability because if we were to purchase inventory when fuel prices are high without having a corresponding sales contract in place, we may not be able to resell it at a profit. In the highly competitive marine fuel supply industry, we may not be able to successfully compete for customers with new entrants or established companies with greater resources. We are subject to aggressive competition in all aspects of our business. Our competitors are numerous, ranging from large multinational corporations, which have significantly greater capital resources than us, to relatively small and specialized firms. In addition to competing with fuel resellers, such as World Fuel Services Corporation and Chemoil Corporation, we also compete with the major oil producers that market fuel directly to large commercial shipping companies. We may not be able to successfully compete for customers because of increased competition from the major oil producers or our suppliers who may choose to market directly to large as well as smaller shipping companies, or to provide less advantageous price and credit terms to us. Also, due in part to the highly fragmented market, competitors with greater resources could enter the marine fuel supply industry and operate larger fleets of bunkering tankers through consolidations or acquisitions and may be able to offer better terms than we are able to offer to our customers. Our operations are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in liabilities, fines or penalties and changes of which may require increased capital expenditures and other costs necessary to operate and maintain our vessels. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of fuel and fuel products. We currently store fuel inventories on our bunkering tankers and storage facilities and we may, in the future, maintain fuel inventories at several other locations in fixed or floating storage facilities. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage, and hazardous waste disposal, among other things. If we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, if there are releases of fuel and fuel products we own, or if we are found to be in violation of environmental laws or regulations, we could be subject to liabilities that could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results. We are also subject to possible claims by customers, employees and others who may be injured by a fuel spill, exposure to fuel, or other accidents. If we should fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil or criminal liability. In particular, our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations in the form of international conventions, national, state and local laws and national and international regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which our vessels operate or are registered, which can significantly affect the ownership and operation of our vessels. These regulations include, but are not limited to, (i) the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 1969, (ii) the International Convention for the Prevention of Marine Pollution from Ships of 1973 and (iii) the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974. We refer you to the discussion in the section of this report entitled "Business—Environmental and Other Regulations" for a description of environmental laws and regulations that affect our business. A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations. Some environmental laws often impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject us to liability without regard to whether we were negligent or at fault. An oil spill could result in significant liability, including fines, 15 penalties, criminal liability and remediation costs for natural resource damages as well as third-party damages. We are required to satisfy insurance and financial responsibility requirements for potential oil (including marine fuel) spills and other pollution incidents. Our insurance policies covering certain environmental risks may not be sufficient to cover all such risks and any claim may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. Compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards, may require us to make additional capital expenditures for the installation of costly equipment or operational changes and may affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels. In order to satisfy these requirements, we may, from time to time, be required to take our vessels out of service for extended periods of time, with corresponding losses of revenues. We may also incur additional costs in order to comply with other existing and future regulatory obligations, including costs relating to air emissions, maintenance and inspection, elimination of tin-based paint, development and implementation of emergency procedures and insurance coverage or other financial assurance of our ability to address pollution incidents. These costs could reduce our results of operations and cash flows, weaken our financial condition and affect our ability to pay dividends. Also, in the future, market conditions may not justify these expenditures or enable us to operate some or all of our vessels profitably during the remainder of their economic lives. Our vessel operations have inherent risks that could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay dividends. Our vessels and fuel oils that they carry are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as marine disasters, bad weather, mechanical failures, human error, war, terrorism, piracy and other circumstances or events. All these hazards can result in death or injury to persons, loss of revenues or property, environmental damage, higher insurance rates, damage to our customer relationships, delays or rerouting. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired. The costs of vessel repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. We may have to pay repair costs that our insurance policies do not cover. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our results of operations. If one of our vessels were involved in an accident with the potential risk of environmental contamination, the resulting media coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and cash flows, weaken our financial condition and negatively affect our ability to pay dividends. Our share price may be highly volatile, which could lead to a loss of all or part of an investor’s investment. The market price of our common shares may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including: · fluctuations in interest rates; · fluctuations in the availability or the price of oil; · fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; · announcements by us or our competitors; · changes in our relationships with customers or suppliers; · changes in governmental regulation of the fuel industry; · changes in United States or foreign tax laws; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results from period to period; · changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; · changes in accounting principles; · a general or industry-specific decline in the demand for, and price of, shares of our common stock resulting from capital market conditions independent of our operating performance; · the loss of any of our key management personnel; and · our failure to successfully implement our business plan. 16 In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry forces may seriously harm the market price of our common shares, regardless of our operating performance. Future sales of our common shares could cause the market price of our common shares to decline. The market price of our common shares could decline due to sales, or the announcements of proposed sales, of a large number of common shares in the market, including sales of common shares by our large shareholders, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales, or the perception that these sales could occur, could also make it more difficult or impossible for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate to raise funds through future offerings of common shares. ITEM 