Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Part II Item 5. Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risks Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Matters Part III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services Part IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statements and Schedules Signatures Index to Exhibits In this Form 10-K, unless otherwise specified, all monetary amounts are in United States dollars, all references to “$”, “U.S.$”, “U.S. dollars” and “dollars” mean U.S. dollars and all references to “C$”, “Canadian dollars” and “CDN$” mean Canadian dollars. To the extent that such monetary amounts are derived from our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K, they have been translated into U.S. dollars in accordance with our accounting policies as described therein. Unless otherwise indicated, other Canadian dollar monetary amounts have been translated into United States dollars at the December 31, 2005 noon buying rate reported by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, being U.S. $1.00 = C$1.1656. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Some of the statements under “Business,” “Risk Factors,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and elsewhere in this annual report may include forward-looking statements which reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance. These statements include forward-looking statements both with respect to us specifically and the pharmaceutical and medical device industry and business, demographic and other matters in general. Statements which include the words “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “project,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “may,” “will,” “continue,” “further,” “seek,” and similar words or statements of a future or forward-looking nature identify forward-looking statements for purposes of the federal securities laws or otherwise. All forward-looking statements address matters that involve risks and uncertainties. Accordingly, there are or will be important factors that could cause our actual results and other circumstances and events to differ materially from those indicated in these 2 statements. We believe that these factors include but are not limited to those described under “Risk Factors” above and the following: • the initiation, timing, progress and results of our preclinical and clinical trials, research and development programs; • our reliance on our relationship with Smith & Nephew; • our reliance on sales of Acticoat™ products with our SILCRYST™ coatings; • the implementation of our business model, strategic plans for our business, product candidates and technology; • our ability to maintain and establish corporate collaborations; • the scope of protection we are able to establish and maintain for intellectual property rights covering our product candidates and technology; • our ability to operate our business without infringing the intellectual property rights of others; • estimates of our expenses, future revenues, capital requirements and our needs for additional financing; • the timing or likelihood of regulatory filings and approvals; • our financial performance; • competitive companies, technologies and our industry; • changes in regulation or tax laws applicable to us; • changes in accounting policies or practices; • changes in general economic conditions; • other risks and uncertainties that have not been identified at this time; and • management’s response to these factors. The foregoing list should not be construed as exhaustive, and should be read in conjunction with the other cautionary statements that are included in this annual report. Other than as required by applicable law, we undertake no obligation publicly to update or review any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. If one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize, or if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect, actual results may vary materially from what we projected. Any forward-looking statements you read in this annual report reflect our current views with respect to future events and are subject to these and other risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to our operations, results of operations, growth strategy and liquidity and the markets for our current and proposed products. You should specifically consider the factors identified in this annual report that could cause actual results to differ. INDUSTRY AND MARKET DATA This annual report includes industry and market data concerning our business and the markets for our current and proposed products, including data regarding the size of these markets and their projected growth rates, the incidence of certain medical conditions and sales of certain drugs and healthcare products. This information was obtained from our own research, industry and general publications and reports prepared by third parties, including Frost & Sullivan’s 2005 Global Advanced Wound Management Markets report. Although we believe that information from third-party sources is reliable, we have not independently verified any of this information and we cannot assure you that it is accurate. Similarly, our own research, while believed by us to be reliable, has not been verified by any independent sources. 3 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview We develop, manufacture and commercialize innovative medical products that fight infection and inflammation. Our patented technology enables us to convert silver’s microcrystalline structure into an atomically disordered nanocrystalline coating that we believe enhances silver’s natural antimicrobial properties by providing for the sustained release of an increased quantity of positively-charged particles called ions. We believe currently marketed wound care products with our nanocrystalline silver combat infection longer than other silver-based wound care products that we view as major competitors and offer a broader spectrum of antimicrobial activity than many topically applied antibiotics. In addition, our nanocrystalline silver structures have exhibited potent anti-inflammatory properties in preclinical studies. We produce our nanocrystalline silver as a coating for wound dressing products under the trademark SILCRYST™ and as a powder for use as an active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, which we refer to as NPI 32101. We are currently engaged in Phase 2 clinical trials of NPI 32101, which we believe may be useful for treating a wide range of infectious and inflammatory diseases. Advanced wound care products with our SILCRYST™ coatings have received FDA clearance and approval of other regulators for over 30 countries around the world and are sold by Smith & Nephew plc, a global medical device company, under its Acticoat™ trademark. Acticoat™ products are used for a wide variety of wound types by hospitals, clinics, burn centers, doctors’ offices, home healthcare agencies and nursing homes. We work with Smith & Nephew to develop new Acticoat™ wound care products with our SILCRYST™ coatings. Smith & Nephew’s recently launched Acticoat™ Moisture Control product resulted from these efforts. Acticoat™ products compete in the advanced wound care products market, which according to Frost & Sullivan, a market research firm, was an approximately $1.5 billion global market in 2004 and is projected to grow to approximately $3.1 billion by 2011. Operating income from our wound care products, which we define as revenue (including milestone payments) less manufacturing costs and other expenses associated with wound care products, funds a large portion of our pharmaceutical developments. We are developing pharmaceutical products to extend our nanocrystalline silver technology to the treatment of dermatological and gastrointestinal conditions. In furtherance of these and other research and development activities, we incurred research and development costs of $8.5 million in 2005, $9.0 million in 2004, and $5.7 million in 2003. Our lead pharmaceutical product candidate is a topical cream containing NPI 32101 for the treatment of dermatological conditions, such as atopic dermatitis. Atopic dermatitis is an inflammatory skin disease often complicated by secondary infection. In September 2004, we completed a Phase 2 clinical trial for topical NPI 32101 in 224 adult patients with mild to moderate atopic dermatitis. In October 2005, we began enrollment in a second Phase 2 clinical trial for the treatment of mild to moderate atopic dermatitis in children and adolescents. We are also conducting preclinical research for the use of NPI 32101 for the treatment of gastrointestinal conditions. We believe our nanocrystalline silver technology may be used to create a variety of additional pharmaceutical products that can treat medical conditions characterized by both infection and inflammation. Our technology may be used to convert the microcrystalline structure of other noble metals, such as gold and platinum, into an atomically disordered nanocrystalline structure. We intend over time to continue our research with the objective of using our technology platform to enhance the recognized therapeutic effects of gold and platinum in the treatment of arthritis and cancer, respectively. We are a majority owned subsidiary of The Westaim Corporation, a Canadian company incorporated in Alberta and the shares of which are listed on the NASDAQ National Market (“NASDAQ”) and the Toronto Stock Exchange. Westaim traces its roots to the research and development operations of its predecessor parent corporation, a Canadian metals company. In the early 1990s, we began experimenting with the application of nanotechnology to silver with significant funding from the Canadian federal and Alberta provincial governments. These efforts ultimately led to the creation and development of our SILCRYST™coatings and our NPI 32101 API for pharmaceutical formulations. On December 29, 2005, we completed our initial public offering of 4.5 million common shares for gross proceeds of $45.0 million. We used $6.9 million of net proceeds to partially repay debt owed to Westaim and retained the remaining net proceeds of $35.0 million to fund our operations. Our Nanocrystalline Technology Silver, platinum and gold, which are elements of the noble metals group, have long been known to have medicinal properties. For example, platinum is the primary active ingredient in cisplatin, a prominent cancer drug. Similarly, gold is the active agent in some 4 treatments for rheumatoid arthritis. We selected silver as the first noble metal for the application of our proprietary nanotechnology based on silver’s antimicrobial properties. Although silver’s medicinal properties have been well known for centuries, we believe its use in its microcrystalline form has been limited due to its slow release of relatively small quantities of silver ions and the widespread use of antibiotics. Silver is composed of large microcrystals, usually of one or two microns in diameter or greater. These microcrystals dissolve slowly, thereby limiting the rate and amount of silver released over time. By converting silver’s microcrystalline structure into an atomically disordered nanocrystalline structure, we believe that we enhance silver’s release and efficacy characteristics and thereby make it a more effective antimicrobial agent. Antibacterial agents inhibit or kill bacterial cells by attacking one of the bacterium’s structures or processes. Common targets are the bacterium’s outer shell (called the “cell wall”) and the bacterium’s intracellular processes that normally help the bacterium grow and reproduce. However, since a particular antibiotic typically attacks one or a limited number of cellular targets, any bacteria with a resistance to that antibiotic’s killing mechanism could potentially survive and repopulate the bacterial colony. Over time, these bacteria could make resistance or immunity to this antibiotic widespread. Unlike antibiotics, silver has been shown to simultaneously attack several targets in the bacterial cell and therefore it is thought to be less likely that bacteria would become resistant to all of these killing mechanisms and thereby create a new silver-resistant strain of bacteria. This may be the reason that bacterial resistance to silver has not yet been widely observed despite its centuries-long use. This can be particularly important in hospitals, nursing homes and other healthcare institutions where patients are at risk of developing infections. As a result, we believe that our nanocrystalline silver fulfills a large unmet need for effective, locally administered antimicrobial products that are not as susceptible to bacterial resistance. Our SILCRYST™ coatings exhibit rapid antimicrobial activity, killing many organisms within 30 minutes of application, which is faster than many other commercially-available forms of antimicrobial silver. These organisms include gram positive and gram negative bacteria, including some antibiotic resistant strains in both classes, as well as fungi and yeast. We have designed our SILCRYST™ coatings to provide sustained antimicrobial activity for up to seven days. We have demonstrated in non-clinical studies that our nanocrystalline silver exhibits anti-inflammatory properties in three ways. It suppresses two naturally occurring inflammatory agents, specifically IL-12b and TNFa , and reduces the level of a naturally occurring enzyme called MMP-9. While helpful at the correct levels, excessive amounts of these substances are associated with inflammation. In addition, it increases the natural cell death of certain inflammatory cells, specifically polymorphonuclear leukocytes, or PMNs. We believe these mechanisms of action are an important reason for our nanocrystalline silver’s potent anti-inflammatory properties and that these properties are not shared by microcrystalline silver. Our manufacturing technology is based on a physical vapor deposition, or PVD, process called magnetron sputtering. The process begins by bombarding silver with positive ions to liberate, or sputter, nanosized silver-containing particles. These nanosized silver-containing particles are then re-condensed to form new atomically disordered nanocrystalline structures on various materials, called substrates. For example, we use high-density polyethylene as the substrate for some of our non-adherent wound care dressings. While the PVD process is generally used to produce films or continuous coatings, we have developed methods to coat inert substrates and also have developed a method to produce our nanocrystalline silver in powder form for use as an API in pharmaceutical products. This powder consists of aggregates of silver nanocrystals and forms the basis of our API, which can be delivered in various pharmaceutical formulations, such as creams, gels, liquids, tablets, capsules, suppositories and aerosols, for treating a variety of infectious or inflammatory conditions, which are both present in some cases. Market Overview Wound Care Market Acticoat™ products with our SILCRYST™ coatings compete in the advanced wound care market, which includes products for chronic wounds, serious burns and traumatic and surgical wounds. According to Frost & Sullivan, the advanced wound care products was an approximately $1.5 billion global market in 2004 and is projected to grow to approximately $3.1 billion by 2011. We believe that the aging population and growing incidence of diabetes and obesity in many of our markets are driving an increase in the incidence of serious and difficult-to-heal wounds. In addition, we believe that wound care technology is motivating physicians to increase their use of advanced wound care products. Chronic wounds are generally defined as wounds that have not healed after six months of treatment. Advanced wound care products are frequently used in the treatment of chronic wounds. Chronic wounds include pressure ulcers, diabetic foot ulcers and 5 venous stasis ulcers. Pressure ulcers are caused by unrelieved pressure or by tissue layers sliding over each other. According to a 2002 presentation by Frost & Sullivan, there were approximately 2.4 million human pressure ulcers in the United States. In addition, according to a 2005 report by Frost & Sullivan, approximately 7% of the 19.4 million people with diabetes in the United States suffered from diabetic foot ulcers in 2004. We believe that diabetic foot ulcers are one of the most difficult types of chronic wounds to heal. In each of 2000 and 2001, approximately 82,000 non-traumatic lower limb amputations occurred in people with diabetes, according to information made available by the American Diabetes Association. Venous stasis ulcers typically affect the elderly and are caused by the inability of blood to circulate effectively through the venous system in the leg. According to information published in 2003 by the Cleveland Clinic, a leading healthcare institution, approximately 500,000 people in the United States have venous stasis ulcers. Chronic wounds generally occur more frequently among diabetic, elderly, immobile or seriously ill people due to their diminished healing capabilities or immobility. It is often difficult to prevent pressure ulcers by repositioning patients due to the staffing limitations in hospitals, nursing homes and other healthcare facilities. In addition, it can be difficult to consistently prevent the formation of venous stasis or diabetic foot ulcers because of the patient’s chronic underlying disease or other health issues. Traditional gauze treatments for chronic wounds require frequent dressing changes that can disrupt the wound, which can retard or prevent the healing process. In addition, chronic wounds are often prone to infection. Matrix metalloproteinases, or MMPs, are enzymes that digest tissue and that thereby regulate the formation of new tissue and blood vessels in a healing wound. MMP-9 is one of these enzymes. Studies of human tissue samples indicate that excess levels of MMP-9 and other MMPs, particularly in wounds such as chronic ulcers, may contribute to non-healing or slow healing by digesting newly formed tissue faster than the wounds can heal. While commonly used advanced dressings offer clinicians a wide variety of dressing structures, such as solid foams and alginates, we do not believe these dressings, including those that contain silver, inhibit MMPs, unlike Acticoat™3 and Acticoat™ 7 dressings with SILCRYST™ coatings. A study published in the May-June 2002 issue of Wound Repair and Regeneration indicates that the Acticoat™ 3 dressing promoted more rapid wound healing and reduced the levels of MMPs in porcine wounds when compared to porcine wounds treated with non-silver control dressings and gauze dressings with silver nitrate. According to a 2005 report of the National Institute of General Medical Sciences, each year in the United States approximately 1.1 million burn injuries require medical attention; approximately 45,000 of these require hospitalization, and roughly half of those burn patients are admitted to a specialized burn unit; up to 10,000 people in the United States die every year of burn-related infections; and complications following serious burns may occur long after the initial incident, often when the patient is in an intensive care unit. Prior to the introduction of Acticoat™ in 1998, the standard of care for serious burns had been the use of antibacterial ointments or solutions, usually a form of silver, covered by sterile dressings. Because these creams and solutions are short acting forms of silver, these dressings generally needed to be changed at least daily or more frequently, which can be painful and can interfere with healing because of disruption of the wound bed. Acticoat™ dressings with SILCRYST™ coatings are generally non-adherent and provide for up to seven days of antimicrobial protection. Since its introduction, Acticoat™ has been rapidly adopted to replace short acting creams and solutions. Another important segment of the advanced wound care market is the treatment of traumatic wounds and surgical wounds. Traumatic wounds often have irregular edges and missing flesh, making them difficult to heal and prone to infection. According to the March-April 2005 Journal of the American Podiatric Medical Association, citing data published in 1988, approximately 10 million patients with traumatic wound injuries are seen in U.S. emergency departments each year. Surgical wounds, resulting from incisions, are more regular than traumatic wounds, but still have the potential to become infected. In the United States there were approximately 30 million surgical procedures performed in 2003 according to the 2003 National Hospital Discharge Survey, a survey conducted by the National Center for Health Statistics, a department of the United States Department of Health and Human Services. These procedures range from spinal taps with a needle incision to open heart surgeries, which require large chest incisions. With the increasing resistance of many infectious agents to systemic antibiotics, there is a need for products that can help prevent the entry of infectious agents into the body. We believe that this market segment presents a natural extension for our SILCRYST™ coatings for wound care products. Pharmaceutical Market We are developing pharmaceutical products to treat dermatological and gastrointestinal conditions. Atopic dermatitis is a chronic form of eczema that currently has no cure and no effective treatment without potential adverse side effects. More than 15 million people in the United States suffer from symptoms of atopic dermatitis, according to information published by the National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Disease, last revised in 2003. Atopic dermatitis is currently treated primarily with prescription 6 topical steroids and topical immunomodulators, or TIMs. Prescription TIMs in the United States generated 2004 sales of approximately $463 million according to IMS Health, a leading provider of prescription drug statistics. However, TIMs are prescribed for conditions other than atopic dermatitis. We are currently conducting a Phase 2 clinical trial on our topical cream with NPI 32101 for the relief of symptoms of atopic dermatitis. Two other common skin conditions that may benefit from NPI 32101 are acne and psoriasis. According to IMS Health, in 2004 prescription product sales of acne treatments totaled approximately $1.5 billion in the United States, including approximately $810 million of topical products and approximately $756 million of oral products. Also according to IMS Health, in 2004 prescription product sales of psoriasis treatments totaled approximately $891 million in the United States, including approximately $506 million of injectable biologics, approximately $283 million of topical products and approximately $98 million of oral products. The gastrointestinal market is composed of the many diseases causing heartburn, acid indigestion and bowel disorders. We have begun exploring the use of our nanocrystalline technology to treat two common inflammatory bowel diseases, or IBDs, ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease. Ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease are typically treated with anti-inflammatories, immunomodulators, corticosteroids, antibiotics or other treatments. According to IMS Health, prescription drug sales for the treatment of IBD were approximately $1.1 billion in 2004. Acticoat™ Products With Our SILCRYST™ Coatings We have developed and received regulatory clearance to market four products using our SILCRYST™ coatings for the advanced wound care market. We have licensed to Smith & Nephew the exclusive worldwide rights to our SILCRYST™ coatings for non-minor skin wounds and burns on humans. Smith & Nephew markets these products under its Acticoat™ trademark to healthcare professionals in over 30 countries. The Acticoat™ product line using our SILCRYST™ coatings targets the higher cost segments of the serious wound care dressings market. In addition to the antimicrobial and anti-inflammatory effects of Acticoat™, Smith & Nephew is promoting the use of Acticoat™ products with SILCRYST™ coatings to help reduce the risk of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, or MRSA, transmission. MRSA is one of the many antibiotic-resistant bacteria sometimes called “super bugs”. Our SILCRYST™ products have proven efficacy in controlling MRSA in the laboratory and clinically. An independent study sponsored by Smith & Nephew and published in the July 2005 issue of the Journal of Hospital Infection concluded that of all clinically observed wounds treated with Acticoat™ dressings in the study, 67% showed a decrease in the MRSA load and 11% showed a complete eradication of MRSA load. The study consisted of using Acticoat™ dressings as a cover for ten MRSA colonized wounds in a total of seven patients over the course of three days. Based on these findings, the authors of this study stated their belief that nanocrystalline silver dressings may become an important part of local MRSA management, with potential cost benefits to both patients and the healthcare system. In addition, the authors noted the possibility that nanocrystalline dressings may enhance effective antibiotic treatment and reduce therapeutic regimens in diabetics or other patients with conditions that often cause systemic antibiotics to fail to reach infected wounds. Health care professionals select different types of dressings for different types of wounds. Some wounds are dry while others have excess fluid, or exudate. As a result, an effective portfolio of products must address various wound types. As described below, Smith & Nephew’s Acticoat™ product family with our SILCRYST™ coatings is designed to treat a wide variety of serious wounds. Each of these currently marketed products has been cleared by the FDA and Canada. Acticoat™ 3/Acticoat™ Burn Dressings Acticoat™ 3 and Acticoat™ Burn are dressings offering antimicrobial activity for up to three days. They were first sold in the United States in 1998 and in Europe in 2001, where they are sold under the brand name Acticoat™. Smith & Nephew currently sells these products in over 30 countries around the world, including the United States. Acticoat™ 3 and Acticoat™ Burn are used extensively in the in-patient burn segment of the wound dressing market. They consist of a rayon/polyester non-woven core between two layers of high-density polyethylene, or HDPE, mesh with SILCRYST™ coatings that provides an antimicrobial barrier layer to protect wounds. A non-woven inner core retains moisture and improves handling characteristics. Acticoat™ 7 Dressings Acticoat™ 7 is a dressing offering antimicrobial activity for up to seven days. It was first sold in the United States in 2000 and in Europe in 2001. Smith & Nephew currently sells Acticoat™ 7 in over 20 countries around the world, including the United States. Acticoat™ 7 is used primarily in the chronic wound segment of the wound dressing market. Acticoat™ 7 provides consistent seven-day 7 sustained antimicrobial protection for patients with venous stasis ulcers, diabetic foot ulcers, pressure ulcers and other persistent wounds and allows up to seven days before wound dressings are required to be changed. Acticoat™ 7 consists of two rayon/polyester non-woven inner cores laminated between three layers of HDPE mesh with SILCRYST™ coatings. Acticoat™ Absorbent Dressings The Acticoat™ Absorbent Dressing is an alginate dressing for wounds with moderate to heavy exudate, providing antimicrobial activity for up to three days. This product was first sold in 2001 and is currently sold in the United States, Canada and Europe. Acticoat™ Absorbent Dressing is used primarily in the chronic wound segment of the wound dressing market. The Acticoat™ Absorbent Dressing consists of a calcium alginate fabric coated on both sides with SILCRYST™ nanocrystals. Alginate dressings are derived from seaweed and are highly absorbent, biodegradable fibrous materials. Alginate dressings are commonly used in advanced wound care because they absorb exudate to help create a moist wound healing environment. Acticoat™ Moisture Control Dressings The Acticoat™ Moisture Control Dressing is a solid foam dressing for wounds with light to moderate exudate, providing antimicrobial activity for up to seven days. Smith & Nephew currently sells the Acticoat™ Moisture Control Dressing in the United States and Canada, and it is expected to be available in Europe in 2006. The Acticoat™ Moisture Control Dressing is used primarily in the chronic wound segment of the wound dressing market. The Acticoat™ Moisture Control Dressing consists of an absorbent foam sandwiched between an outer film and a non-adherent wound contact layer with SILCRYST™ coatings. The Acticoat™ Moisture Control Dressing was developed in collaboration with Smith & Nephew. New Acticoat™ Products We are working with Smith & Nephew to develop new Acticoat™ wound care products in the form of line extensions and innovative new dressing designs using SILCRYST™ coatings. We believe that new products will support Smith & Nephew’s efforts to continue to grow Acticoat™ sales by offering dressings designed for specific wound types. Our intent is to continually improve our nanocrystalline coatings so that Acticoat™ products reflect our latest developments in silver delivery technology. Since the introduction of the Acticoat™ dressing in 1998, the product line has grown from one to four dressing designs with multiple sizes within each dressing design. Multiple new products are in various stages of development. The first of these products is expected to be introduced in 2006. Our Pharmaceutical Products Products formulated with our patented NPI 32101 nanocrystalline silver API are expected to be classified as drugs for treating diseases. Topical Cream with NPI 32101 We are currently developing drugs based on customized formulations of the NPI 32101 nanocrystalline silver API for use in the treatment of dermatologic disorders and are developing a cream for the treatment of mild to moderate atopic dermatitis. We have completed our initial Phase 2 clinical trial for topical NPI 32101 and are in the process of enrolling patients for a second Phase 2 clinical trial. The current first line prescription standard of care for atopic dermatitis is administration of topical steroids. The second line prescription treatment is topical immunomodulators, or TIMs. Topical steroids act rapidly in most patients, but carry the risk of producing adverse side effects such as atrophy (thinning of the skin), telangiectasia (visible “spider-like” blood vessels) and striation (striping) of the skin. In addition, topical steroids are vulnerable to tachyphylaxis (loss of efficacy over time) and run the risk of systemic absorption, which can lead to rare but potentially life-threatening consequences. TIMs are presently a commonly prescribed alternative to topical steroids to treat the inflammation of atopic dermatitis. However, TIMs are topical forms of potent immunosuppressants that inhibit the immune system. The adverse events associated with the use of TIMs can include a burning sensation upon application, an increased risk of cancer and superficial skin infections, such as shingles (herpes zoster virus infection) or eczema herpeticum (skin lesions caused by herpes simplex virus). We believe that a cream containing NPI 32101 may be well received by physicians and patients because the results of our 8 preclinical and clinical trials show that it addresses both inflammation and infection without presenting the potential rare drug-related serious adverse side effects associated with steroids and TIMs. Further, our cream does not appear to damage the skin and has the added potential benefit of combating secondary infections that are commonly developed by patients suffering from atopic dermatitis. Other Products with NPI 32101 We are also researching potential pharmaceutical products containing NPI 32101 for use in the treatment of gastrointestinal disorders. Our nanocrystalline silver has exhibited the ability to suppress the expression of two inflammatory cytokines, TNFa and IL-12b. Overexpression of these two cytokines has been implicated in inflammatory bowel disorders such as ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease. We have conducted reproducible experiments that demonstrate a favorable effect of NPI 32101 on ulcerative colitis in a non-clinical laboratory study. Because our product appears, based on these preliminary experiments, to reduce swelling and ulceration at least as well as sulfasalazine, a drug used to treat IBD, and because we believe that many patients do not respond to currently available treatments for IBD, we are continuing this research in an effort to develop formulations of our API for the treatment of serious gastrointestinal disorders. Our Other Products SILCRYST™ Coatings on Implants We are working to apply our SILCRYST™ coatings to a wide array of medical devices and implants, such as orthopedic implants, pacemakers and meshes. Although these types of medical devices and implants are implanted into patients under sterile conditions, infections can occur after implantation. If an infection occurs, the patient must undergo additional treatments and possibly additional surgical procedures if the infection caused an implant failure. We believe that these medical devices and implants would benefit from SILCRYST™ coatings designed to prevent and combat infection. We are currently focused on applying our SILCRYST™ coatings to various cardiovascular devices and orthopedic implants, and are testing our SILCRYST™ coatings on materials used to make these devices and implants such as titanium, stainless steel, cobalt chrome, silicone and various other polymer materials. Our Clinical Development Program Since 2003, we have been engaged in a series of human clinical studies with our cream formulations of NPI 32101 for the treatment of atopic dermatitis pursuant to an Investigational New Drug, or IND, application that we filed with the FDA. These studies have consisted of a Phase 2 safety and efficacy study and several Phase 1 and Phase 2 safety studies. Our Phase 2 randomized, placebo-controlled safety and efficacy study has provided us with important guidance for the dosage strength, protocol and study design for our future clinical trials, including our second safety and efficacy Phase 2 clinical trial of NPI 32101 for which we have begun to enroll patients. We expect to complete this second large Phase 2 trial in late 2006. Our Phase 1 studies have provided us with preliminary data indicating that our NPI 32101 topical cream does not cause serious adverse side effects. As our clinical study program continues, we intend to perform additional studies to more fully understand the safety profile of our NPI 32101 topical cream. If our second Phase 2 trial and our additional safety studies are successful, we plan to commence in 2007 Phase 3 clinical trials, involving hundreds of patients in numerous clinical centers. If favorable and timely results are achieved in these Phase 3 trials, we anticipate submitting a New Drug Application, or NDA, to the FDA in 2009. However, we cannot assure that our clinical trials will be commenced or completed by these dates, that they will be successful, or that we will succeed in filing an NDA by such date or at all. Moreover, even if we file an NDA, we cannot assure that it will be approved by the FDA in a timely fashion or at all. In September 2004, we announced the results of our Phase 2 clinical study of NPI 32101 in a cream formulation in adult patients with mild to moderate atopic dermatitis. The purpose of the study was to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of topical NPI 32101 in improving the symptoms of atopic dermatitis. This double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study in 224 adult patients was conducted at 23 clinical sites across the United States. Patients were treated twice daily for a six-week period with one of two concentrations (0.5% and 1.0%) of our NPI 32101 topical cream or with a placebo consisting of the cream without NPI 32101. The patients in this study tolerated our NPI 32101 topical cream well, with no serious adverse events. The adverse events reported were not unusual for a topical drug and did not occur with a greater statistical frequency in the patients treated with NPI 32101 than was observed in the placebo group. For example, application site reactions occurred in 11.4%, 10.3% and 15.7% in the groups treated with placebo, 0.5% cream and 1.0% cream, respectively. Each investigator participating in the study was asked to observe the overall percentage improvement of each patient treated by that investigator at specified times during the course of the six weeks of treatment. These observations of overall assessment of disease improvement were then analyzed using three commonly-used statistical methods. The first method of statistical analysis, the intent to treat with last observation carried forward method, included the last 9 observation made of each and every enrolled patient who had at least one post-treatment efficacy assessment. With this first method, even if a patient dropped out of the study before completing the six weeks of treatment, the last observation made of that patient was “carried forward” into the statistical analysis. Using this first method, we did not observe any statistically significant difference among our two dosage strengths of NPI 32101 cream and the placebo. The p-value, which is the measure of the probability of the difference in treatment results occurring due to chance, was 0.522, which generally means a 52.2% probability that the difference was due to chance. This method of analysis is the method that the FDA would use, based on its current guidance, for determining the efficacy of our product candidate. The second method of statistical analysis, the intent to treat protocol without last observation carried forward method, included each patient who completed the six weeks of treatment, whether or not the protocol for the study was precisely followed for that patient. Under this second method, patients treated with 1.0% NPI 32101 were observed to exhibit a statistically significant greater improvement than patients treated with the placebo, while the improvement observed in patients treated with 0.5% NPI 32101 was not a statistically significant improvement compared to the patients treated with placebo. The p-value for 1.0% NPI 32101 concentration compared to placebo in the second method was 0.025, which generally means a 2.5% probability that the difference was due to chance. The third method of statistical analysis, the per protocol method, analyzed the improvement in only patients who completed the Phase 2 study without any deviation from the protocol which might have confounded the results. Using this third method, the patients in the 1.0% dosage strength group also exhibited a statistically significant greater improvement in their disease symptoms than the patients who were in the placebo group, while the improvement observed in patients treated with 0.5% NPI 32101 was not a statistically significant improvement compared to the patients treated with placebo. The p-value for 1.0% NPI 32101 concentration compared to placebo in the third method was 0.024, which generally means a 2.4% probability that the difference was due to chance. Our first safety and efficacy Phase 2 clinical study provided us with important observations about the relationship between dosage strength of our NPI 32101 topical cream and patient response as well as the relationship between the length of treatment with our NPI 32101 topical cream and patient response. We have used these observations to guide the design of our second safety and efficacy Phase 2 clinical study. This second safety and efficacy Phase 2 clinical study is currently planned to test placebo, 1.0% and 2.0% dosage strengths in 345 children and adolescents with atopic dermatitis over a 12-week treatment period. Enrollment has begun in this second safety and efficacy Phase 2 clinical study and we expect that this study will be conducted at multiple sites in the United States and Canada. In this second safety and efficacy Phase 2 clinical study, instead of asking investigators to make an overall assessment of disease improvement, we have asked investigators to make a global assessment of the patient’s signs and symptoms at each study visit, and to evaluate whether “total clearance” or “almost total clearance” of symptoms has been achieved. With respect to our Phase 1 safety studies of our NPI 32101 topical cream, in a recently completed pharmacokinetic study, we determined serum concentrations and urinary excretion of silver in 18 adult patients with atopic dermatitis and 18 matching healthy adult controls following four times daily application of 1% and 2% NPI 32101 cream for two weeks. Silver could not be detected in the serum of a majority of the subjects, and when silver was detected in the minority of the subjects, the levels were low and there was no correlation with the concentration of cream, area covered with cream or the presence or absence of disease. Similarly, urinary silver excretion was not related to these factors or to the detection of silver in the serum. Based on these observations, we believe that systemic exposure to silver in patients with atopic dermatitis treated with topical NPI 32101 is likely to be low. In addition, we also tested 30 children and adolescents with atopic dermatitis for tolerance to our NPI 32101 topical cream in 1% and 2% dosage strengths applied twice daily for two weeks compared to the cream containing no silver. We did not observe any serious adverse events in any of these patients. Two patients in the placebo group and none in the NPI 32101-treated groups withdrew for adverse events. Treatment-related events were generally mild, transitory and were not related to the dose of silver applied, although they were higher in the NPI 32101 group than in the placebo group, with 20%, 70% and 60% of patients experiencing at least one adverse event for administration site conditions for placebo, 1% and 2% groups, respectively. In addition to our clinical studies described above, we are continuing to conduct preclinical and nonclinical studies of our NPI 32101 topical cream in order to generate the carcinogenicity, toxicology and other data that we will have to submit to the FDA as part of any NDA we may file. We cannot assure that these preclinical and nonclinical studies will be successful, that the data from these studies will be accepted by the FDA, or that even if accepted by the FDA, the FDA will not require additional such studies. 10 Smith & Nephew Agreements Prior to May 2001, we manufactured, marketed and sold directly to end users Acticoat™ wound care products. In May 2001, we entered into a number of agreements with Smith & Nephew providing greatly expanded sales and marketing resources to support the Acticoat™ product line, including a license and development agreement under which we licensed to Smith & Nephew the exclusive right to market, distribute and sell products with our SILCRYST™ coatings for use on non-minor skin wounds and burns on humans world-wide, and a supply agreement under which we agreed to manufacture these products and supply them exclusively to Smith & Nephew. These agreements do not give Smith & Nephew the right to sell consumer first-aid products with our SILCRYST™ coatings designed for self-medication or use without advice from a health care professional. We also sold various assets to Smith & Nephew in connection with the license and development agreement and the supply agreement, including certain manufacturing equipment (which we then leased back), the Acticoat™ trade name and trademark and various regulatory approvals. Pursuant to these agreements, Smith & Nephew markets and sells products with our SILCRYST™ coatings under its Acticoat™ trademark. License and Development Agreement Under the license and development agreement, Smith & Nephew has the right to market, distribute and sell products with our SILCRYST™ coatings for use on non-minor skin wounds and burns on humans, including improvements to those products, and any new products with our SILCRYST™ coatings for use on non-minor skin wounds and burns on humans. The license we have granted to Smith & Nephew is exclusive, which means that we have agreed not to license the right to market, distribute or sell products with our SILCRYST™ coatings for use on non-minor skin wounds and burns on humans to any other party. This exclusive right does not apply to other types of products that we may develop using our technology, such as the pharmaceutical products we are developing or SILCRYST™-coated implants. Smith & Nephew has agreed to pursue the development and commercialization of products with our SILCRYST™ coatings in the market for silver-based products for non-minor skin wounds and burns on humans. The license and development agreement expires in May 2026, although it may be terminated earlier by either party if the other party fails to cure a material breach of the agreement, suspends its operations or ceases to carry on business or files for bankruptcy or takes other similar actions. We have established a project team that includes representatives from both NUCRYST and Smith & Nephew to oversee and manage the development of Acticoat™ products under the license and development agreement. Development plans for Acticoat™ products must be approved by Smith & Nephew, which is responsible for all costs incurred in connection with the development of new Acticoat™ products and improvements. Smith & Nephew is also responsible for all regulatory filings required for the marketing or sale of Acticoat™ products under the license and development agreement. The project team also reviews Smith & Nephew’s annual marketing plan for Acticoat™ products, although final decisions regarding marketing matters are made by Smith & Nephew. The license and development agreement includes performance standards for Smith & Nephew based on its net sales of Acticoat™ products and other measures. Under certain circumstances, if the standards are not met we would be permitted to market, distribute and sell products with our SILCRYST™ coatings for use on non-minor skin wounds and burns on humans to other parties, other than Acticoat™ 3/Acticoat™ Burn and Acticoat™ 7 which would continue to be subject to the provisions of the license and development agreement giving Smith & Nephew the exclusive right to sell those products in the U.S. and Canadian markets. We have granted to Smith & Nephew a non-exclusive royalty-free license to use our SILCRYST™ trademark for use in marketing, distributing and selling Acticoat™ products under our agreements with them. This license also applies to any other marks we develop to identify products that contain our nanocrystalline silver coating technology. Subject to certain exceptions, Smith & Nephew has agreed to include these trademarks in all product labels and sales and promotional literature for Acticoat™ products. Smith & Nephew pays us royalties based on their sales of Acticoat™ products. We also receive payments upon the achievement of milestones relating to Smith & Nephew’s sales of Acticoat™ products and regulatory matters specified in the license and development agreement. All payments under the license and distribution agreement are made in U.S. dollars. In calculating sales levels for milestone payment thresholds and other purposes under the license and development agreement, sales by Smith & Nephew in currencies other than the U.S. dollar are converted to the U.S. dollar based on the average exchange rate for the prior quarter. In May 2004, in accordance with the agreements, the contractual royalty rate increased and from that date has remained and, under the terms of the agreements, is to remain constant for the life of the agreements, subject only to: (i) the possibility of a negotiated or arbitrator-awarded reduction in royalty rates on sales in countries where patent protection has been lost and a competing product is being sold that would have infringed our patent rights had they been in effect; (ii) the possibility of a negotiated reduction in royalty rates on sales of a particular Acticoat™ product where Smith & Nephew does not realize industry standard margins on sales of such products; 11 or (iii) a reduced royalty rate in respect of sales of Acticoat™ products in certain countries, including the United States, upon the expiration of patent rights to our SILCRYST™ coatings in such country. We are entitled to increased royalty rates on sales of particular Acticoat™ products where Smith & Nephew realizes gross profit margins on sales of such products over a specified threshold. We earned a $1.0 million milestone payment in 2001 for the first sale of product in Europe and a $3.0 million milestone payment in 2003 for the receipt of a regulatory approval in Europe. We earned a $5.0 million sales milestone payment in the first quarter of 2004, another $5.0 million sales milestone payment in the third quarter of 2004 and a $5.0 million sales milestone payment during the third quarter of 2005. The maximum amount of milestone payments that we may receive under the Smith & Nephew agreements, including the $19.0 million of milestone payments we have already received, is $56.5 million. We have granted Smith & Nephew a right of first offer regarding our assets and technology used to manufacture and supply Acticoat™ products. This right of first offer applies only if we desire to sell all or substantially all of these assets. We have also granted to Smith & Nephew a right of first refusal regarding these assets if we receive an offer to purchase them, which we wish to accept, from a competitor of Smith & Nephew’s in the wound care market. Supply Agreement Under the supply agreement, Smith & Nephew has appointed us as its exclusive supplier of the existing Acticoat™ products as well as any new products that we mutually agree to, and we have agreed not to sell these products to anyone else until such time as Smith & Nephew’s license to market, distribute and sell Acticoat™ products containing our SILCRYST™ coatings has terminated or expired. We are obligated to supply the quantity of Acticoat™ product specified in a rolling demand forecast provided to us by Smith & Nephew on a monthly basis. The price paid for the products by Smith & Nephew is equal to our fully allocated cost of goods sold including equipment depreciation plus a royalty based on sales of these products by Smith & Nephew. Smith & Nephew is not required to reimburse us for any costs incurred in acquiring or improving owned real property, buildings or similar improvements. Smith & Nephew’s obligation to reimburse us in any calendar year for fixed costs that are within our control or the control of our affiliates (including Westaim), other than costs incurred at the request of Smith & Nephew, is capped at the greater of a fixed percent and the increase in the Canadian Consumer Price Index. All payments under the supply agreement are made in U.S. dollars. In calculating sales levels for royalty payments under the supply agreement, sales by Smith & Nephew in currencies other than the U.S. dollar are converted into the U.S. dollar based on the average exchange rate for the prior quarter. Under the supply agreement, we lease certain manufacturing equipment from Smith & Nephew which represented approximately 40% of our total manufacturing capacity at December 31, 2005. If we suffer a material difficulty in supplying Acticoat™ products and that difficulty is not cured on a timely basis, this lease would terminate and Smith & Nephew would have the right to take possession of the equipment it leases to us and buy our other manufacturing equipment used in the production of Acticoat™ products. In such case, Smith & Nephew would also receive the right to use our technology to manufacture, on its own, Acticoat™ products for non-minor skin wounds and burns on humans. If within one year of Smith & Nephew commencing to manufacture Acticoat™ products under these circumstances, we are able to demonstrate to the reasonable satisfaction of Smith & Nephew that we are once again able to manufacture products in accordance with our agreements with Smith & Nephew, our lease from Smith & Nephew of the previously leased manufacturing equipment would resume at a cost no greater than Smith & Nephew incurred during its period of manufacture, subject to our reimbursing Smith & Nephew for its costs incurred to establish and terminate its manufacturing operations and subject to any then-existing Smith & Nephew third party commitments, and the lease would also cover any manufacturing equipment that Smith & Nephew had purchased from us, and the right of Smith & Nephew to use our manufacturing technology would cease. Smith & Nephew is responsible for any product recalls, although we have agreed to reimburse Smith & Nephew for its out-of-pocket costs to the extent the adverse event or complaint resulting in the recall was attributable to us. We have agreed not to use the manufacturing equipment that we lease from Smith & Nephew and use for producing Acticoat™ products for other purposes. We have granted Smith & Nephew a right of first offer regarding our assets used to manufacture and supply Acticoat™ products if we desire to sell all or substantially all of these assets. We have also granted to Smith & Nephew a right of first refusal regarding these assets if we receive an offer to purchase them, which we wish to accept, from a competitor of Smith & Nephew’s in the wound care market. The supply agreement expires upon the expiration or termination of the license and development agreement (which is scheduled to expire in 2026), although it may be terminated earlier by either party if the other party fails to cure a material breach of the agreement, suspends its operations or files for bankruptcy or takes other similar actions. 12 Manufacturing and Technology Escrow Agreement Under the manufacturing and technology escrow agreement, we have deposited with an escrow agent certain documentation and manuals that describe technology used to manufacture Acticoat™ products. Upon the occurrence of certain release events, the documentation and manuals would be released by the escrow agent to Smith & Nephew as part of the right to use our technology to manufacture Acticoat™ products for non-minor skin wounds and burns on humans. A release event is defined as a material difficulty supplying Acticoat™ products under our supply agreement with Smith & Nephew that is not cured on a timely basis or the occurrence of certain events in connection with our insolvency or bankruptcy. Security Trust Agreement and Trust Indenture Under the security trust agreement and the trust indenture, we have granted to Smith & Nephew a security interest in our manufacturing technology and patent rights used in the manufacture of Acticoat™ products. This security interest secures our obligations to Smith & Nephew under the manufacturing right that would be granted to Smith & Nephew as described above. Under the security trust agreement and trust indenture, Smith & Nephew may take possession of and use the manufacturing technology and patent rights upon the occurrence of a release event as described under “—Manufacturing and Technology Escrow Agreement.” Accordingly, Smith & Nephew would have the right, upon the occurrence of specified events, to use our manufacturing technologies and patent rights to manufacture Acticoat™ products on its own or with a third party. Assignments with respect to the patent rights that are covered by the security interest have been deposited with a trustee under the security trust agreement and the indenture. Indemnities We and Smith & Nephew have agreed to indemnify each other in respect of claims resulting from any alleged physical injury or property damage as a result of our respective acts or omissions, the failure to perform our respective obligations under the license and development agreement and the supply agreement, our respective non-compliance with applicable law or regulation, any breach of our respective representations under these agreements, for so long as the particular representation survives. In addition, Smith & Nephew has agreed to indemnify us for claims arising out of its marketing and sale of Acticoat™ products except to the extent attributable to us. Also, we have agreed to indemnify Smith & Nephew in respect of claims resulting from any actual or threatened action by any third party alleging our SILCRYST™ coatings infringe that third party’s intellectual property rights, subject to Smith & Nephew’s remedy for such an infringement action being limited to withholding damages or royalties it must pay on account of the infringement action from amounts or royalties payable to us under the two agreements, unless we have breached any representation to Smith & Nephew in connection with that infringement. Marketing Under the terms of our long-term agreements, Smith & Nephew, a global medical device company, is responsible for all sales and marketing activities with respect to Acticoat™ dressings. Smith & Nephew supports its local sales and marketing efforts with a marketing team that provides strategic and global market planning for the Acticoat™ brand. To maximize the potential of our SILCRYST™ technology and Smith & Nephew’s global reach, we work closely with Smith & Nephew to develop new Acticoat™ wound care products with our SILCRYST™ coatings. In 2004, Smith & Nephew’s Advanced Wound Management business designated Acticoat™ as one of its “superbrands,” and Smith & Nephew has advised us that the Acticoat™ product line therefore receives a relatively greater share of Smith & Nephew’s sales, marketing and new product development resources compared to products that are not among its designated “superbrands.” Manufacturing We manufacture Smith & Nephew’s Acticoat™ products with our SILCRYST™ coatings and our NPI 32101 API in environmentally-controlled conditions. Our production facility is located in Fort Saskatchewan, Alberta, is ISO 9000 certified and subject to inspection from time to time by regulatory authorities from the United States, Canada and Europe. We currently purchase most of our raw materials from single suppliers. At December 31, 2005, our quality, operations and engineering staff was made up of 102 technicians, some of whom are professional engineers with expertise in quality systems, equipment design, logistics and production. Our Fort Saskatchewan, Alberta facility purchases and stores raw materials, coats wound care dressing components, assembles, labels and packages finished product for sterilization and finally, ships the products to Smith & Nephew. 13 Intellectual Property Our success depends significantly on our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property protection for our technology, including our materials, devices, compositions and methods of making and using the same. Our success also depends on our ability to operate without infringing the intellectual property rights of others and our ability to prevent others from infringing our intellectual property rights. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our know-how and continuing technological innovation. Where possible, we pursue composition of matter patent claims. Such patent claims cover our materials, devices and compositions independent of the manner in which they are made and used. We also pursue device and method of manufacture, use and treatment claims. As of March 7, 2006, we hold 18 United States patents having expiration dates ranging from 2012 to 2022. In addition, we are pursuing 22 United States patent applications. Our goal is to hold corresponding patents and applications in our most important target markets outside the United States. Accordingly, we hold 60 corresponding patents from jurisdictions such as European Union countries, Australia, Canada, China and Japan. Moreover, we are pursuing 38 corresponding patent applications outside of the United States, including two patent cooperation treaty applications, which may lead to the filing of additional foreign patent applications. We believe our portfolio of issued patents prevents unlicensed parties from making, using, importing, selling and/or offering to sell our nanocrystalline silver material independent of its form and no matter how it is made or used in the United States and other important markets outside the United States. We believe our portfolio of pending patent applications, if and when issued, may prevent unlicensed parties from making, using, importing, selling and/or offering to sell certain aspects of our technology in the United States and other important markets outside the United States. Individual patents extend for varying periods depending on the date of filing of the patent application or the date of patent issuance and the term of patents in the countries in which they are obtained. Generally, patents issued in the United States are effective for the longer of 17 years from the issue date or 20 years from the earliest effective filing date if the patent application, from which the patent issued, was filed prior to June 8, 1995; and 20 years from the earliest effective filing date, if the patent application, from which the patent issued was filed on or after June 8, 1995. In addition, in certain instances, the term of a U.S. patent can be extended to recapture a portion of the term effectively lost as a result of the FDA regulatory review period (as defined in U.S. patent law). The duration of patents in other countries varies in accordance with provisions of applicable local law, but in countries with major markets typically is 20 years from the earliest effective filing date. Our patent estate, based on patents existing now and pending applications, will expire on dates ranging from 2012 to 2022. The actual protection afforded by a patent varies from country to country and depends upon many factors, including the type of patent, the scope of its coverage, the availability of regulatory related extensions, the availability of legal remedies in a particular country and the validity and enforceability of the patent. In addition to patents, we rely on trade secrets to protect our intellectual property where appropriate. The protection of our trade secrets relies on our ability to keep information confidential. Our policy is to keep information confidential by disclosing it only to those employees and third parties with a need to know and only to the extent warranted in specific circumstances and under confidentiality agreements, where appropriate. Competition The medical device and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive. There are numerous silver-containing advanced wound care dressings and silver-coated medical devices available from a variety of health care companies. Some of these products have been recently introduced and directly compete with Acticoat™. We sell products containing our SILCRYST™ coatings to Smith & Nephew and Smith & Nephew markets and sells them under its Acticoat™ trademark into a larger competitive environment. Major competitors in the advanced wound dressing market in which Smith & Nephew’s Acticoat™ products are sold include Convatec, a Bristol Myers Squibb company, Johnson & Johnson Wound Management, a division of Ethicon, Inc., Argentum Medical, LLC, Coloplast Corp., AcryMed, Inc., 3M Company, Kinetic Concepts Inc., Mölnlycke Health Care Group AB and Paul Hartmann AG. To the extent that we develop pharmaceutical products to treat dermatological and gastrointestinal conditions, we will face competition from pharmaceutical companies developing alternative drugs to treat these diseases. A number of parties are beginning to compete in the medical device coating area, including AcryMed, Inc., Covalon Technologies Ltd., C.R. Bard, Inc. and St. Jude 14 Medical Inc. In addition, we face and will continue to face competition from other major multi-national pharmaceutical companies and medical device companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies, universities and other research institutions. Third-Party Reimbursement and Pricing Controls In the United States and elsewhere, sales of pharmaceutical products and medical devices depend in significant part on the availability of reimbursement to the consumer from third-party payors, including government health authorities, managed care providers, public health insurers, private health insurers or other organizations. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services and examining their cost-effectiveness. It is time consuming and expensive to go through the process of seeking reimbursement approval from Medicare and private payors. Acticoat™ dressings or other products from which we may receive revenue in the future may not be considered cost-effective, and reimbursement may not be available or sufficient to allow these products to be sold on a competitive and profitable basis. In many foreign markets, including countries in the European Union and Canada, pricing of medical products, in particular reimbursed products, is subject to governmental control. In some countries of the European Union, a product must receive specific country pricing approval in order to be reimbursed in that country. In others, specific discounts will need to be granted on certain, in particular reimbursed, products. The pricing approval in those Member States of the European Union can take many months, and sometimes years, to obtain. In Canada, pricing must be approved by the Patented Medicine Prices Review Board, and government and third party payors. In addition, the Canadian provincial governments have the authority to assess the reimbursement status, if any, and the pricing of newly approved drugs, pharmaceutical products and pharmaceutical product indications. Obtaining price approval from the Patented Medicine Prices Review Board and provincial governments can take six to twelve months or longer after the receipt of the notice of compliance. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of a product to other available therapies. In the United States, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental pricing controls. Although we do not expect the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 to have a significant effect on pricing or reimbursement for Acticoat™ products, we cannot predict what impact it may have on prices or reimbursement policies for pharmaceutical products, including the products we are developing. Government Regulation Government authorities extensively regulate the testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, record-keeping, advertising, promotion, export, marketing and distribution, of medical devices and pharmaceutical products. Since the United States and Europe are significant markets, we have described their regulatory systems. Many other countries have similar regulatory systems. United States In the United States, the FDA, under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and other federal statutes and regulations, subjects medical products to rigorous review. If we do not comply with applicable requirements, we may be fined, the government may refuse to approve our marketing applications or allow us to manufacture or market our products, and we may be criminally prosecuted. The FDA has different approval processes for medical devices, such as our wound care dressings, and pharmaceutical products, such as the products we are developing using our NPI 32101 API. Medical Device Regulation. Under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, medical devices are classified into one of three classes—Class I, Class II or Class III—depending on the degree of risk associated with each medical device and the extent of control needed to ensure safety and effectiveness. Class I medical devices are subject to the FDA’s general controls, which include compliance with the applicable portions of the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, facility registration and product listing, reporting of adverse medical events, and appropriate, truthful and non-misleading labeling, advertising, and promotional materials. Class II devices are subject to the FDA’s general controls and may also be subject to other special controls as deemed necessary by the FDA to ensure the safety and effectiveness of the device. Class III medical devices are subject to the FDA’s general controls, special controls, and generally pre-market approval prior to marketing. Acticoat™ products with our SILCRYST™ coatings require pre-market clearance by the FDA through the 510(k) pre-market notification process. When a 510(k) is required, the manufacturer must submit to the FDA a pre-market notification demonstrating that the device is “substantially equivalent” to either a device that was legally marketed prior to May 28, 1976, the date upon which the Medical Device Amendments of 1976 were enacted, or to another commercially available, similar device which was subsequently 15 cleared through the 510(k) process. By regulation, the FDA is required to review a 510(k) within 90 days of submission of the application. As a practical matter, clearance often takes longer. All currently marketed Acticoat™ products with our SILCRYST™ coatings have been cleared for marketing pursuant to the 510(k) process. The FDA has broad post-market regulatory and enforcement powers with respect to medical devices, similar to those for drug products. Failure to comply with the applicable U.S. medical device regulatory requirements could result in, among other things, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees, civil penalties, repairs, replacements, refunds, recalls or seizures of products, total or partial suspension of production, the FDA’s refusal to grant future pre-market clearances or approvals, withdrawals or suspensions of current product applications, and criminal prosecution. New Drug Approval Process. To obtain approval of a new drug product from the FDA, we must, among other requirements, submit data supporting safety and efficacy as well as detailed information on the manufacture and composition of the product candidate and proposed labeling. The testing and collection of data and the preparation of necessary applications are expensive and time-consuming. The process required by the FDA before a new drug may be marketed in the United States generally involves the following: completion of preclinical laboratory and animal testing in compliance with FDA regulations; submission of an investigational new drug application which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin; performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed drug for its intended use; and submission of an NDA. The applicant typically conducts human clinical trials in three sequential phases, but the phases may overlap. In Phase 1 clinical trials, the product is tested in a small number of patients or healthy volunteers, primarily for safety at one or more doses. In Phase 2 clinical trials, in addition to safety risk, efficacy is assessed in a patient population. Phase 3 clinical trials typically involve additional testing of safety and clinical efficacy in an expanded population at geographically-dispersed test sites. Clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with the FDA’s good clinical practices requirements. The FDA may order the temporary or permanent discontinuation of a clinical trial at any time or impose other sanctions if it believes that the clinical trial is not being conducted in accordance with FDA requirements or presents an unacceptable risk to the clinical trial patients. At each site where we sponsor a clinical trial, the Institutional Review Board, or IRB, for that site generally must approve the clinical trial design and patient informed consent form to be used at that site and may also require the clinical trial at that site to be halted, either temporarily or permanently, for failure to comply with that IRB’s requirements, or may impose other conditions. The applicant must submit to the FDA the results of the preclinical and clinical trials, together with, among other things, detailed information on the manufacture and composition of the product and proposed labeling, in the form of an NDA, including payment of a user fee. The FDA reviews all NDAs submitted before it accepts them for filing and may request additional information rather than accepting an NDA for filing. The review process may be extended if the FDA requests additional information or clarification regarding information already provided in the submission. If the FDA’s evaluations of the safety and efficacy data in the NDA and the manufacturing procedures and facilities are favorable, the FDA may issue either an approval letter or an approvable letter, which contains the conditions that must be met in order to secure a final approval letter, authorizing commercial marketing of the drug for certain indications. If the FDA’s evaluation of the NDA submission and the manufacturing procedures and facilities is not favorable, the FDA may refuse to approve the NDA or issue a not approvable letter. Manufacturing cGMP Requirements. If and when we manufacture pharmaceutical products, we will be required to comply with applicable FDA manufacturing requirements contained in the FDA’s current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, regulations. cGMP regulations require among other things, quality control and quality assurance as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. The manufacturing facility for our products must meet cGMP requirements to the satisfaction of the FDA pursuant to a pre-NDA approval inspection before we can use them. We and some of our third party service providers are also subject to periodic inspections of facilities by the FDA and other authorities, including procedures and operations used in the testing and manufacture of our products to assess our compliance with applicable regulations. Failure to comply with statutory and regulatory requirements subjects a manufacturer to possible legal or regulatory action, including the seizure or recall of products, injunctions, consent decrees placing significant restrictions on or suspending manufacturing operations, and civil and criminal penalties. Adverse experiences with the product must be reported to the FDA and could result in the imposition of market restriction through labeling changes or in product withdrawal. Product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory requirements is not maintained or if problems concerning safety or efficacy of the product occur following the approval. 16 European Union Regulation Marketing Authorizations for Drugs. In order to gain marketing approval of any of our drug products in Europe, we must submit for review an application similar to a U.S. NDA to the relevant authority. In contrast to the United States, where the FDA is the only authority that administers and approves NDAs, in Europe there are multiple authorities that administer and approve these applications. Marketing authorizations in Europe expire after five years but may be renewed. We believe that our nanocrystalline silver drugs will be reviewed by the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use, or CHMP, on behalf of the European Medicines Agency, or EMEA. Based upon the review of the CHMP, the EMEA provides an opinion to the European Commission on the safety, quality and efficacy of the drug. The decision to grant or refuse an authorization is made by the European Commission. Approval of applications can take several months to several years, or be denied. This approval process can be affected by many of the same factors relating to safety, quality and efficacy as in the approval process for NDAs in the United States. As in the United States, European drug regulatory authorities can require that additional nonclinical studies and clinical trials be performed. The need for such studies or trials, if imposed, may delay marketing approval and involve unbudgeted costs. Inspection of clinical investigation sites by a competent authority may also be required as part of the regulatory approval procedure. In addition, as a condition of marketing approval, regulatory agencies in Europe may require post-marketing surveillance to monitor for adverse effects, or other additional studies as deemed appropriate. The terms of any approval, including labeling content, may be more restrictive than expected and could affect the marketability of a product. In addition, after approval for the initial indication, further clinical studies are usually necessary to gain approval for any additional indications. European GMP. In the European Union, the manufacture of pharmaceutical products and clinical trial supplies is subject to good manufacturing practice, or GMP, as set forth in the relevant laws and guidelines. Compliance with GMP is generally assessed by the competent regulatory authorities. They may conduct inspections of relevant facilities, and review manufacturing procedures, operating systems and personnel qualifications. In addition to obtaining approval for each product, in many cases each drug manufacturing facility must be approved. Further inspections may occur over the life of the product. Medical Devices. All of Smith & Nephew’s Acticoat™ products are classified as medical devices in the European Union. In order to sell its medical device products within the European Union, Smith & Nephew is required to achieve compliance with the requirements of the relevant Medical Devices Directive, or MDD, and its national implementations and affix CE markings on its products to attest to such compliance. Therefore, Smith & Nephew must meet the “Essential Requirements,” as defined under the MDD, relating to safety and performance of its products and, prior to their marketing, must successfully undergo verification of its regulatory compliance (“conformity assessment”) by a so-called Notified Body, which is usually a private entity that has been certified and equipped with respective rights by governmental regulators. The nature of the assessment depends on the regulatory class of the product. Under European law, any medical device products we may develop are likely to be in class III. In the case of class III products, a company must follow the requirements set forth in Article 11 of the MDD and its relevant Annexes, which may impose the obligation to establish and maintain a complete quality system for design and manufacture as described in Annex II of the MDD (this corresponds to a quality system for design described in the standards ISO 9001 and EN 46001 as amended, in particular by EN ISO 13485: 2000 and EN ISO 13488: 2000). The Notified Body must audit this quality system and determine if it meets the requirements of the MDD. In addition, the Notified Body must approve the specific design of each device in class III. As part of the design approval process, the Notified Body must also verify that the products comply with the Essential Requirements of the MDD. In order to comply with these requirements, a company must, among other things, complete a risk analysis and present sufficient clinical data. The clinical data presented by a company must provide evidence that the products meet the performance specifications claimed by a company, provide sufficient evidence of adequate assessment of unwanted side effects and demonstrate that the benefits to the patient outweigh the risks associated with the device. A company will be subject to continued supervision by the Notified Body and competent authorities and will be required to report any serious adverse incidents to the appropriate authorities. A company will also be required to comply with additional national requirements that are beyond the scope of the MDD. Smith & Nephew is entitled to affix a CE marking on all of its wound care products with our SILCRYST™ coatings that are currently marketed in the European Union. There can be no assurance that we or Smith & Nephew will be able to maintain the requirements established for CE marking for any or all of these products or that we will be able to produce these products in a timely and profitable manner while complying with the requirements of the MDD and other regulatory requirements. 17 Environmental and Occupational Safety and Health Regulations Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state, provincial and municipal environmental statutes, regulations and policies, including those promulgated by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, Environment Canada, Alberta Environment, the Department of Health Services, and the Air Quality Management District, that govern activities and operations that may have adverse environmental effects such as discharges to air and water, as well as handling and disposal practices for solid and hazardous wastes. Some of these statutes and regulations impose strict liability for the costs of cleaning up, and for damages resulting from, sites of spills, disposals, or other releases of contaminants, hazardous substances and other materials and for the investigation and remediation of environmental contamination at properties leased or operated by us and at off-site locations where we have arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances. In addition, we may be subject to claims and lawsuits brought by private parties seeking damages and other remedies with respect to similar matters. If we are subject to governmental or private claims, lawsuits or other actions alleging that we violated environmental laws or that our operations or facilities are not in compliance with environmental laws, we may incur substantial legal costs and we could be subject to fines, penalties and damage awards and we could be required to make substantial expenditures to clean up contaminated sites, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have not to date needed to make material expenditures to comply with current environmental statutes, regulations and policies. However, we cannot accurately predict the impact and costs that future statutes, regulations and policies will impose on our business. Employees As of December 31, 2005, we had a total of 151 employees in Canada and the United States. Of these 151 employees, 24 were engaged in research and development, 4 in clinical research, 102 in manufacturing and quality assurance and 21 in administration. We had 62, 70 and 92 employees at the end of 2002, 2003 and 2004, respectively. No employees are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our relations with employees to be good. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS If any of the following risks materialize, then our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have a history of net losses and negative cash flow from operations; this will likely continue in the future and our cash may not be adequate to accomplish our objectives. We have a history of net losses. For the year ended December 31, 2003, we had a net loss of $2.3 million and negative cash flow from operations of $2.2 million. We would have realized a net loss and negative operating cash flow for the year ended December 31, 2004, but for the receipt of $10.0 million in milestone payments from Smith & Nephew. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, we had negative operating cash flow of $2.1 million, and we would have realized a greater net loss but for the receipt of $5.0 million in milestone payments from Smith & Nephew. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $23.6 million. Our ability to generate revenue is dependent on our ability to successfully and in a timely fashion manufacture products for sale by Smith & Nephew and design, develop, obtain regulatory approval for, manufacture, and commercialize our product candidates. We expect to increase our operating expenses and capital expenditures over the next several years as we expand our research and development activities and scale up our manufacturing and quality control operations and hire additional personnel. As a result, we expect to continue to incur net losses and negative cash flow from operations for the foreseeable future. Therefore, we will be required to obtain additional financing in the future, and additional financing may not be available at times, in amounts or on terms acceptable to us or at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our product development efforts, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when or if we will become profitable. We have in the past been wholly dependent upon Westaim for financial support, and Westaim does not intend to provide us with financial support in the future. In the past, all of our external financing was provided by Westaim and we have relied on Westaim for the ongoing financial support necessary to operate our business. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We have repaid a portion of our debt to Westaim with a portion of the proceeds of our 18 initial public offering and Westaim has exchanged our remaining debt to Westaim for additional common shares. As a result, Westaim does not intend to provide us any further financing or financial support and we will be entirely reliant on third parties for financing necessary to satisfy our cash needs. We do not have any lines of credit or other financing arrangements in place with banks or other financial institutions. We will likely require additional external financing in the future and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional financing as and when required, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We are dependent on our relationship with Smith & Nephew. In May 2001, we entered into a number of agreements with Smith & Nephew. The principal agreements are a license and development agreement under which we licensed to Smith & Nephew the exclusive right to market, distribute and sell products with our SILCRYST™ coatings for use on non-minor skin wounds and burns on humans worldwide, and a supply agreement under which we agreed to manufacture these products and supply them to Smith & Nephew. Our agreements with Smith & Nephew are described under the heading “Business—Smith & Nephew Agreements.” Since May 2001, all of our revenues have been earned under our contracts with Smith & Nephew and Smith & Nephew is currently our only customer. Our revenues under these contracts are derived primarily from royalties, which are calculated as a percentage of Smith & Nephew’s sales of Acticoat™ products, milestone payments, which are cash payments we receive upon the achievement by Smith & Nephew of certain sales goals or regulatory achievements relating to the Acticoat™ products, and reimbursement for our costs incurred in manufacturing Acticoat™ products. As a result, our revenues generally vary in proportion to increases or decreases in Smith & Nephew’s sales of its Acticoat™ products. We therefore depend and will continue to depend on Smith & Nephew to market and sell Acticoat™ products successfully. If Smith & Nephew does not increase future sales of its Acticoat™ products, this would likely have a material adverse effect on us and on the market price of our common shares. The Smith & Nephew agreements expire in 2026. However, Smith & Nephew may terminate our agreements earlier if we fail to cure a material breach of the agreements or if we suspend operations, cease to carry on business or file for bankruptcy or take other similar actions. If Smith & Nephew were to terminate our agreements prior to their expiration, we would lose the benefit of our strategic collaboration and our only current source of revenue. Smith & Nephew is our only customer for all of our existing products. We have agreed to exclusively supply Smith & Nephew with our SILCRYST™ coatings for use in Smith & Nephew’s advanced wound care products, which are marketed by Smith & Nephew under its Acticoat™ trademark. Our agreements with Smith & Nephew cover products used to treat non-minor skin wounds and burns on humans, which we sometimes collectively refer to as “serious” wounds, excluding consumer first-aid products designed for self-medication or use without advice from a health care professional. We currently do not have any other products being sold in the marketplace. Consequently, all of our revenue is received from Smith & Nephew and is principally comprised of cost reimbursement, royalty payments and milestone payments. The amount of our revenues is determined primarily by the level of sales of Acticoat™ products achieved by Smith & Nephew. Moreover, Smith & Nephew is not required to purchase any significant amount of products from us. We are at risk of Smith & Nephew becoming less motivated to market Acticoat™ products due to any one of a number of factors, including other products marketed by Smith & Nephew having better profit margins, or achieving greater acceptance or popularity with health care providers, than the Acticoat™ products. We are also subject to the risk that sales of Acticoat™ products will not grow or will decline due to factors outside Smith & Nephew’s control, including competition from products marketed by competitors having better characteristics than Acticoat™ products resulting in customers generally preferring the competitor’s products. Smith & Nephew has the authority to unilaterally determine the selling price for Acticoat™ products. Smith & Nephew may set a relatively low price for our products, or give discounts or rebates that effectively lower the price of the Acticoat™ products, which in either case could reduce our revenues and delay or eliminate receipt of milestone payments. If we lose our patent rights in a particular country and in respect of a particular SILCRYST™ coated product and if someone else sells a competing product in that country that would have infringed on our patent rights had they been in effect, then we are obligated to negotiate in good faith with Smith & Nephew for the reduction of the royalty rate applicable to sales of the particular product in that country for so long as the competing product is being sold and we are without patent protection. If those negotiations do not result in any agreement, the matter would be referred to binding arbitration, although there is a limit on the maximum royalty reduction permitted. Any reduction in our royalties will adversely affect our results of operations. Decisions regarding key aspects of our relationship with Smith & Nephew and the pricing and marketing of Acticoat™ products are made by a limited number of key Smith & Nephew executives. The departure or replacement of any of these executives could have a 19 material adverse effect on our relationship. Our future success depends in part on the launch of new Acticoat™ products by Smith & Nephew. We work with Smith & Nephew on the development of such new products; however, the decision to develop or launch a new product, the timing of the development and launch and all related matters are entirely within Smith & Nephew’s discretion. Therefore, there can be no assurance that new products will be developed or launched at all or on the timeline or in the manner we anticipate. We may be unable to sell our existing products to other parties, even if our agreements with Smith & Nephew expire or terminate. We have agreed to exclusively supply Smith & Nephew with our SILCRYST™ coatings for use in silver-based products for non-minor skin wounds and burns on humans. We do not have the right to sell these products to other parties so long as Smith & Nephew has complied with the terms of our agreements. In addition, we do not have the right to sell the products marketed by Smith & Nephew as Acticoat™ 3/ Acticoat™ Burn and Acticoat™ 7 in the United States or Canada under any circumstances. If our agreements with Smith & Nephew were terminated or expire, or if we otherwise have the right to sell SILCRYST™-coated wound care products to customers other than Smith & Nephew, we may be unable to market, distribute and sell these products or to enter into a marketing, distribution and sales agreement with another distributor. We do not currently have a marketing, distribution or sales organization and there can be no assurance that we would be successful in marketing, distributing or selling our products were we to attempt to do so. In addition, Smith & Nephew owns and uses the trademark Acticoat™ to sell products with our SILCRYST™ coatings and consequently end-users tend to have greater familiarity with the Acticoat™ trademark as compared to the SILCRYST™ trademark. If our agreements with Smith & Nephew were terminated or expire and we attempted to market products with our SILCRYST™ coatings ourselves or through a distributor, we would not have the benefit of the Acticoat™ trademark. We are required to manufacture Acticoat™ products according to Smith & Nephew’s forecasts and, if we suffer a material difficulty supplying Acticoat™ products, Smith & Nephew would have the right to manufacture or cause a third party to manufacture Acticoat™ products using our technology and facilities. As discussed below, if we suffer a material difficulty in supplying Acticoat™ products, Smith & Nephew may manufacture or cause a third party to manufacture Acticoat™ products, and in such circumstances we will be subject to a number of risks, including, but not limited to, Smith & Nephew failing to comply with FDA-mandated current good manufacturing practices or similar regulations in other jurisdictions, resulting in mandated production halts or limitations, Smith & Nephew experiencing manufacturing quality or control issues which halt or limit Acticoat™ production, and a greater risk that some of our proprietary manufacturing processes and trade secrets will become known to other third parties. Smith & Nephew has on several occasions requested that we increase our production capacity and, as a result, we are currently expanding our production capacity. However, there is a risk that we will not be able to do so in the future or to supply Smith & Nephew with the quantity or quality of products it requests. For a description of certain factors that may make it difficult to supply the quantity of Acticoat™ products required by Smith & Nephew, see below. We are obligated to provide the quantity of Acticoat™ product specified by Smith & Nephew in its demand forecasts. Meeting anticipated demand for Acticoat™ products estimated by Smith & Nephew may require significant scale-up expenses for new facilities and personnel. Although Smith & Nephew is required to reimburse us for costs of manufacturing products that we sell to Smith & Nephew, reimbursement for capital expenditures to acquire equipment typically takes the form of cash payments approximately equal to our depreciation, which payments are typically spread out over a number of years. Accordingly, scaling up our manufacturing capability may require that we make substantial up-front cash expenditures for which we will not be reimbursed for a period of several years. Smith & Nephew is not required to reimburse us for any costs incurred in acquiring or improving owned real property, buildings or similar improvements and, as a result, we are and will be required to obtain additional financing to fund any such expenditures and there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. Smith & Nephew’s obligation to reimburse us in any calendar year for fixed costs that are within our control or the control of our affiliates (including Westaim), other than costs incurred at the request of Smith & Nephew, is capped at the greater of a fixed percent and the increase in the Canadian Consumer Price Index. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully increase our manufacturing capacity to meet anticipated demand or that we will be able to satisfy demand in a cost-effective manner. Further, the demand forecasts provided by Smith & Nephew may materially overstate actual demand for Acticoat™ products, thereby resulting in excessive inventories and the potential for loss of product due to shelf-life expiration, or such forecasts may materially understate actual demand for Acticoat™ products 20 resulting in lost sales due to the inability to meet demand on a timely basis. Either situation would have a negative impact on our results of operations. We lease certain manufacturing equipment from Smith & Nephew which represented approximately 40% of our total manufacturing capacity at December 31, 2005. If we suffer a material difficulty in supplying Acticoat™ products (which would give Smith & Nephew the right to assume the manufacture of Acticoat™ products as described below), and that difficulty is not cured on a timely basis, this lease would terminate and Smith & Nephew would have the right to take possession of the equipment it leases to us and to buy our other manufacturing equipment used in the production of Acticoat™ products. In such case, Smith & Nephew would also receive the right to use our technology and this equipment to manufacture, on its own, Acticoat™ products for non-minor skin wounds and burns on humans. If Smith & Nephew were to take possession of this equipment and manufacture Acticoat™ products on its own or with a third party, even for a limited period of time, it would have a material adverse effect on our business. We have deposited with an escrow agent certain documentation and manuals that describe the technology used to manufacture Acticoat™ products. Upon the occurrence of certain release events, the documentation and manuals would be released by the escrow agent to Smith & Nephew as part of the right to use our technology to manufacture Acticoat™ products for non-minor skin wounds and burns on humans. A release event is defined as a material difficulty in supplying Acticoat™ products under our supply agreement with Smith & Nephew that is not cured on a timely basis or the occurrence of certain events in connection with our insolvency or bankruptcy. In addition, we have granted to Smith & Nephew a security interest in our manufacturing technology and patent rights used in the manufacture of Acticoat™ products. This security interest secures our obligations to Smith & Nephew under the manufacturing right that would be granted to Smith & Nephew as described above. Under the security trust agreement and trust indenture, Smith & Nephew may take possession of and use our manufacturing technology and patent rights upon the occurrence of a release event as described above. Accordingly, Smith & Nephew would have the right, upon the occurrence of specified events, to use our manufacturing technologies and patent rights to manufacture Acticoat™ products on its own or have them manufactured by a third party. If this were to occur, it would have a material adverse effect on our business and would pose a risk that some of our proprietary manufacturing processes and trade secrets will become known to third parties. In addition, the existence of these Smith & Nephew rights will likely make it more difficult for us to obtain debt and other forms of financing in the future and may also limit the amount investors are willing to pay for our common shares. We rely on Smith & Nephew for regulatory filings for Acticoat™ products and our results would be adversely affected if they do not fully comply with regulatory requirements. Smith & Nephew is responsible for regulatory filings required for the marketing and sale of Acticoat™ products. If Smith & Nephew does not fully comply with regulatory requirements related to these products, then we may be subject to risks which could adversely affect our results of operations and prospects, including but not limited to actions by the FDA or other regulatory authorities which may have the effect of restricting or preventing our ability to market and sell our products, or to have those products marketed or sold. It could also result in increased costs related to compliance with regulatory requirements. Our agreements with Smith & Nephew may limit our ability to enter into agreements to transfer certain of our assets. We have granted Smith & Nephew a right of first offer regarding our assets and technology used to manufacture and supply Acticoat™ products if we desire to sell all or substantially all of these assets. We have also granted Smith & Nephew a right of first refusal regarding these assets if we receive an offer to purchase them, which we wish to accept, from a competitor of Smith & Nephew’s in the wound care market. The existence of these Smith & Nephew rights could limit our ability to enter into transactions involving the transfer of all or substantially all of these assets. We have agreed to indemnify Smith & Nephew for claims under our agreements, which could result in significant costs to us. We have agreed to indemnify Smith & Nephew in respect of claims resulting from any alleged physical injury or property damage as a result of our acts or omissions, the failure to perform our obligations under the license and development agreement and the supply agreement, our non-compliance with applicable law or regulation, or any breach of our representations under these two agreements for so long as the particular representation survives. Also, we have agreed to indemnify Smith & Nephew in respect of claims resulting from any actual or threatened action by any third party alleging our SILCRYST™ coatings infringe that third party’s intellectual property rights, subject to Smith & Nephew’s remedy for such an infringement action being limited to withholding damages or royalties it must pay on account of the infringement action from amounts or royalties payable to us under the two agreements, unless we have breached any representation to Smith & Nephew in connection with that infringement. 21 Our ability to develop and sell future products, particularly our dermatological, gastrointestinal and future wound care products, is critical to our success, and if we fail to do so, our business and financial condition will suffer. We have invested and will continue to invest a significant portion of our time and financial resources in the development of future products including products for wound care, dermatological and gastrointestinal applications. The development of medical devices and pharmaceutical products is risky because there is no guarantee that products will be as effective as we anticipate or will receive regulatory approval, and the development of new products is extremely costly and typically extends over many years. Even if we receive regulatory approval, other companies may be able to market similar products prior to the launch of our products, during which time their products may gain a significant marketing advantage. We expect to incur substantial capital expenditures in connection with the development of future products. If we fail to successfully develop and sell our future products then we will not earn any return on our investment in these future products, which will adversely affect our results of operations and could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. It would also adversely affect our financial condition. In addition, if we are unable to develop future products, we will remain dependent on Smith & Nephew’s ability to market and sell Acticoat™ products successfully. Our success in developing and selling new products will depend upon multiple factors, including: • our ability to develop safe and effective products; • our ability to obtain regulatory approval in the United States, the European Union and other markets and the scope of such approval; • our ability to add sufficient manufacturing capacity and capability at an acceptable cost and in compliance with regulatory requirements; • our ability to generate commercial sales of our products; • acceptance of the product by the medical community and by patients and third-party payors; • inherent development risks, such as the product proving to be unsafe or unreliable, or not having the anticipated effectiveness; • preclusion or obsolescence resulting from third parties’ proprietary rights or superior or equivalent products; • our ability to enter into favorable and effective marketing and distribution agreements, or to be able to effectively market and distribute on our own; • our ability to develop repeatable processes to manufacture new products in sufficient quantities; • our ability to raise on acceptable terms the substantial additional capital expected to be necessary to successfully develop and commercialize such products; and • general economic conditions. If any of these factors cannot be overcome, we may not be able to develop and introduce new products in a timely or cost-effective manner, which could adversely affect our future growth and results of operations. Our failure to develop new products could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. If product liability lawsuits are brought against us, they could result in costly litigation and significant liabilities. Our use of products in clinical trials, and our or Smith & Nephew’s marketing and sale of products, may expose us to product liability claims and associated adverse publicity. Additionally, the manufacture and sale of medical or pharmaceutical products or devices exposes us to an inherent risk of product liability claims, and the industries in which our products are sold or are likely to be sold have been subject to significant product liability litigation. Any claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, reduced sales, significant liabilities and diversion of our management’s time and attention. We have product liability insurance coverage in an amount we believe is adequate for a company of our size in our industry under a policy maintained by Westaim, which covers Westaim and other entities it controls, and we expect to have this coverage for a period 22 of at least 18 months after the closing of our initial public offering, subject to the earlier termination of the services agreement we entered into with Westaim or that portion of the services agreement relating to the provision of insurance to us by Westaim. See “Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions—Relationship with Westaim—Services Agreement.” Once we are no longer covered by Westaim’s insurance policies, we will have to obtain our own insurance policies, which could result in increased costs or reduced insurance coverage. In addition, our insurance coverage may not protect us against any or all of the product liability claims which could be brought against us in the future, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain product liability insurance in the future at a cost that we deem acceptable, or at all. In the event a product liability claim is brought against us, we may be required to pay legal and other expenses to defend the claim and, if such a claim is successful, damage awards may not be covered, in whole or in part, by our insurance. We may not have sufficient capital resources to pay a judgment, in which case our creditors could levy against our assets. We may also be obligated to indemnify our collaborators and make payments to other parties with respect to product liability damages and claims. Defending any product liability claims, or indemnifying others against those claims, could require us to expend significant financial and managerial resources. The market for advanced wound care and pharmaceutical products is intensely competitive and many of our competitors have significantly more resources and experience than we do, which may limit our commercial opportunities and revenues. The medical device and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive. There are numerous silver-containing advanced wound care dressings and silver-coated medical devices available from a variety of health care companies. Some of these products have been recently introduced and directly compete with Acticoat™. We sell products containing our SILCRYST™ coatings to Smith & Nephew and Smith & Nephew markets and sells them under its Acticoat™ trademark into a larger competitive environment. We may not be able to compete successfully. Major competitors in the advanced wound dressing market in which Smith & Nephew’s Acticoat™ products are sold include Convatec, a Bristol Myers Squibb company, Johnson & Johnson Wound Management, a division of Ethicon, Inc., Argentum Medical, LLC, Coloplast Corp., AcryMed, Inc., 3M Company, Mölnlycke Health Care Group AB and Paul Hartmann AG. To the extent that we develop pharmaceutical products to treat dermatological and gastrointestinal conditions, we will face competition from pharmaceutical companies developing alternative drugs to treat these diseases. A number of parties are beginning to compete in the medical device coating area, including AcryMed, Inc., Covalon Technologies Ltd., C.R. Bard Inc, and St. Jude Medical Inc. In addition, we face and will continue to face competition from other major multi-national pharmaceutical companies, medical device companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies, universities and other research institutions. Products or treatments of our competitors that exist now or that may be developed in the future may reduce the marketability of the current SILCRYST™ coatings and any of our future products, particularly to the extent such products: are more effective; have fewer or less severe adverse side effects; have better patient compliance; receive better reimbursement terms; are accepted by more physicians; have better distribution channels; are easier to administer; are less expensive; or are more cost effective. There can be no assurance that our competitors will not succeed in developing alternative technologies and products that are more effective, easier to use or more economical than those which have been or are being developed by us or that would render our technology and products obsolete and noncompetitive in these fields. Inflammation associated with atopic dermatitis is a complex condition and our competitors or prospective competitors may develop new or improved formulations of products already approved for treating inflammation associated with atopic dermatitis (such as corticosteroids and topical immunomodulators) or extend to the treatment of atopic dermatitis regulatory approvals of products already approved for treating inflammation associated with other skin diseases (such as those approved for treating psoriasis). Some of our competitors, either alone or together with their collaborators, have substantially greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, and other resources and larger research, development and regulatory staffs than we do. In addition, many of our competitors, either alone or together with their collaborators, have significantly greater experience than we do in discovering, developing, manufacturing and marketing products and may also have greater experience in conducting clinical trials and obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals. As a result, they may be able to devote greater resources to the development, manufacture, marketing or sale of their products, initiate or withstand substantial price competition or development costs, or more readily take advantage of acquisitions or other opportunities. Additional mergers and acquisitions, collaborations or other transactions, or the emergence or growth of other competitors in the medical device and pharmaceutical industries, may result in even more resources being concentrated in our competitors. 23 If we are unable to effectively manage our expected future growth, we may be unable to meet demand for Acticoat™ products with our SILCRYST™ coatings and we may be unable to develop or commercialize future products successfully. As of December 31, 2005, we had 151 employees. We currently intend to hire additional employees and expand our facilities, although we cannot guarantee that we will grow as planned, or at all. However, to the extent that we are successful in doing so, our ability to manage our operations and expected growth will require us to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. We may not be able to make such improvements in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. Our ability to develop and commercialize future products and compete effectively, and our future financial performance will depend, in part, on our ability to manage any future growth effectively. We currently manufacture all Acticoat™ products with our SILCRYST™ coatings in our manufacturing facility in Fort Saskatchewan, Alberta. Production of increased quantities of our current products or production of new products may involve technical challenges for us and may require significant scale-up expenses for additions to facilities and personnel. At the end of the third quarter of 2005, we began construction of an expansion of our Fort Saskatchewan production facility with an estimated cost of approximately $5.7 million. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve sufficient manufacturing capabilities to satisfy demand for our current or new products in a cost-effective manner or to produce and sell the quantities necessary for us to operate profitably. We depend on our executive officers and scientific and technical personnel, and if we are not able to retain them or recruit additional qualified personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop or commercialize future products. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our executive officers and scientific and technical personnel. Due to the specialized knowledge each of our executive officers possesses with respect to our operations, the loss of service of any of our executive officers could delay or prevent the successful completion of the clinical trials necessary for the commercialization of present or future products. We rely substantially upon the services of Scott H. Gillis, our President and Chief Executive Officer; Paul J. Schechter, our Vice President, Drug Development & Regulatory Affairs and Chief Medical Officer; Eliot M. Lurier, our Vice President, Finance and Administration; and David C. McDowell, our Vice President, Manufacturing Operations. Although these individuals have employment agreements with us, we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain their services. In the event Mr. Gillis or Dr. Schechter is terminated without cause, we will be required to make severance payments to such officer under the terms of his employment agreement. See “Executive Compensation—Employment Agreements.” We do not currently maintain key man life insurance policies with respect to any of our employees. Our success also depends in part on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, commercial and administrative personnel. In order to pursue our product development and commercialization strategies, we will need to attract and hire additional personnel with experience in a number of disciplines, including product development, manufacturing, quality, clinical testing, government regulation, sales and marketing, drug reimbursement and information systems. There is intense competition for personnel in the fields in which we operate. If we are unable to attract new employees and retain existing employees, we may be unable to continue our development and commercialization activities. We currently purchase most of our raw materials from single suppliers. If we are unable to obtain raw materials and other products from our suppliers that we depend on for our operations, our ability to deliver our products to market may be impeded. We depend on suppliers for raw materials and other components that are subject to stringent regulatory requirements. We currently purchase most of our raw materials from single suppliers and the loss of any of these suppliers could result in a disruption in our production. If this were to occur, it may be difficult to arrange a replacement supplier, because certain of these materials may only be available from one or a limited number of sources. Our suppliers may encounter problems during manufacturing due to a variety of reasons, including failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, failure to comply with applicable regulations, equipment malfunction and environmental factors. In addition, establishing additional or replacement suppliers for these materials may take a substantial period of time, as certain of these suppliers must be approved by regulatory authorities. If we are unable to secure on a timely basis sufficient quantities of the materials we depend on to manufacture Acticoat™ products, if we encounter delays or contractual or other difficulties in our relationships with these suppliers, or if we cannot find replacement suppliers at an acceptable cost, then the manufacture of Acticoat™ products may be disrupted, which could increase our costs and have 24 a materially adverse effect on our revenues. If we are not successful in establishing collaborations with prominent health care companies, we may not be able to grow our business. Our long-term success depends upon our ability to identify, develop and commercialize products, potentially including new device coatings and products for dermatological and gastrointestinal applications. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing new products. However, if we do develop new products, we will need to either market and sell such products ourselves or collaborate with one or more other companies that have the required marketing and sales capabilities. New collaborations are a key part of our growth strategy. If we are unable to enter into collaborations respecting new products or market and sell such products ourselves, we will continue to be dependent upon Smith & Nephew for all of our revenues, and we may be limited in our ability to grow our business. The terms and conditions of any future collaboration agreements may be less favorable than our agreements with Smith & Nephew. If a natural or man-made disaster strikes one or more of our facilities, or facilities upon which we depend, we may be unable to manufacture certain products for a substantial amount of time and our revenue could decline. Our facilities and the facilities of others on which we depend may be affected by natural or man-made disasters, which may include terrorist activities. We depend on our manufacturing facility and research laboratories, as well as our critical information systems, for the continued operation of our business. Our sole manufacturing facility is located in Fort Saskatchewan, Alberta, Canada. This facility and the manufacturing equipment that we use to produce our products, as well as our critical information systems, would be difficult to replace and could require substantial lead time to repair or replace. In the event that our manufacturing facility was affected by a natural or man-made disaster, we would be forced to construct new manufacturing facilities and may not be able to produce our products in sufficient quantities, or at all, during the period of construction. In that regard, due to the specialized nature of our manufacturing equipment, we anticipate that it would take a substantial period of time to construct new manufacturing facilities. Moreover, we would need to secure regulatory approval to manufacture our products at a new facility. Accordingly, construction of new facilities and regulatory approvals could take years to complete. We have historically had internal controls and accounting processes in place and have modified these controls and processes over time as the need has arisen. However, if our internal controls and accounting processes are insufficient, we may not detect in a timely manner misstatements that could occur in our financial statements in amounts that could be material. As a result of our initial public offering and the subsequent listing of our common shares on NASDAQ, we need to devote substantial efforts to the reporting obligations and internal controls required of a public company in the United States and Canada, which will result in substantial costs, and a failure to properly meet these obligations could cause investors to lose confidence in us and have a negative impact on the market price of our common shares. Because, prior to our initial public offering, we had a small accounting staff and relied on Westaim to provide certain accounting services to us, these obligations will be more taxing on our resources than if we were a larger organization. We will be required to devote significant resources to the documentation and testing of our operational and financial systems for the foreseeable future. We will need to make continued efforts with respect to the documentation of our internal controls in order to meet the requirements of being a public company in the United States and Canada, including the rules under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in the United States and proposed Multilateral Instrument 52-111—Reporting on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting in Canada. However, the improvements we have made to date and the efforts with respect to our accounting processes that we will need to continue to make may not be sufficient to ensure that we maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations in the United States or Canada or result in misstatements in our financial statements in amounts that could be material. Insufficient internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our shares and may expose us to litigation risk. We may incur losses associated with currency fluctuations and may not be able to effectively hedge our exposure. The Smith & Nephew sales revenues on which our royalty and milestone revenues are determined are reported to us in U.S. dollars. Sales by Smith & Nephew in other currencies will result in fluctuations in their revenue as reported in U.S. dollars. Our accounts receivable from Smith & Nephew are denominated in U.S. dollars. The functional currency that we use for accounting 25 purposes is the Canadian dollar and, as a result, accounts receivable recorded in Canadian dollars are exposed to changes in the exchange rate between the Canadian and U.S. dollars until these receivables are collected. We do not maintain derivative instruments to mitigate our exposure to fluctuations in exchange rates. Risks Related to Regulatory Matters Smith & Nephew may be unable to maintain existing regulatory approvals or obtain new regulatory approvals for the Acticoat™ products that it currently sells, which would negatively affect our results of operations. Our future products may not be approved by the regulatory agencies, and any failure or delay associated with our product development and clinical trials or the agencies’ approval would increase our product development costs and time to market. Smith & Nephew is required to maintain regulatory approvals to sell the Acticoat™ products that it currently sells and to obtain additional regulatory approvals for those current products to sell them in any new markets. All of our future products will also require regulatory approval before we or any collaborator are allowed to market and sell them. We expect the regulatory approval process to be lengthy and expensive and we will have the burden of proving that our products are safe and effective. Satisfying regulatory requirements may cause our products to become prohibitively expensive. There is no assurance that Smith & Nephew will be able to maintain existing regulatory approvals for the Acticoat™ products it now sells or obtain new regulatory approvals, or that the conditions imposed by regulators will not adversely affect Smith & Nephew’s ability to market those products. Regulatory requirements imposed on products could limit Smith & Nephew’s ability to commercialize its product and our ability to test, manufacture and commercialize our products. Loss of these approvals or an inability to obtain approvals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Preclinical studies and clinical trials are expensive, can take many years and have uncertain outcomes. In addition, the regulatory approval procedures vary among countries and additional testing may be required in some jurisdictions. It usually takes at least several years to complete the requisite pre-clinical studies and clinical trials, and a product candidate may fail at any stage of testing. Difficulties and risks associated with pre-clinical studies and clinical trials may result in failure to receive regulatory approval or inability to commercialize products for new indications. Clinical trials may be suspended or terminated at any time due to the actions of the FDA, other regulatory authorities, our collaborators, or due to our own actions. The commencement and completion of our clinical trials could be delayed or prevented by several factors, including: • delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, including approvals by the competent institutional review board, or IRB, or ethics committee, or EC, to commence or continue a study; • delays in identifying and reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective clinical trial sites; • insufficient quantities of the study product; • scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions; • slower than expected rates of patient recruitment and enrollment or the inability to reach full enrollment; • improper enrollment practices resulting in protocol management problems and statistical analysis problems; • inconclusive or negative interim results during clinical trials, including lack of effectiveness or unforeseen safety issues; • death of, or serious adverse effects experienced by, one or more patients during a clinical trial even if the reasons are not related to the study product candidate, including the advanced stage of the patient’s disease or medical condition; • uncertain dosing issues; • inability to monitor patients adequately during and after treatment; • inability or unwillingness of contract laboratories to follow good laboratory practices or of our clinical investigators and us to follow good clinical practices; • the occurrence of adverse events during the clinical trials; 26 • inability or unwillingness of clinical investigators to follow our clinical protocols or good clinical practices generally; • inability or unwillingness of patients to follow our clinical protocols; and • inability or unwillingness of other third parties to perform data collection and analysis in a timely or accurate manner. Delays or failures in obtaining regulatory approvals may: • delay or prevent the commercialization of any product that we develop for new indications or any product within an already approved indication for which the submission of additional clinical trial data is required; • in the case of delays, materially and adversely increase the cost of completing the development of such product and obtaining regulatory approval to market it; • diminish any competitive advantages; and • adversely affect our ability to attract new collaborators. Completion of clinical trials does not guarantee successful commercialization of future products. Completion of clinical trials does not guarantee successful commercialization, for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to: • clinical trials can have negative or inconclusive results; • regulators may not agree with our results or our analysis of the safety or the efficacy of our products; • there is a risk of failure in commercialization even after a product has been launched into the market, for example due to unexpected side effects of the product which were not discovered during clinical trials; and • the market may fail to respond positively to a product for a variety of factors outside our control, including but not limited to inadequate or unsuccessful marketing efforts by third parties on which we depend but cannot control, competition from other products, cost, reimbursement policies of third-party payors or the buying decisions of consumers for a variety of unforeseen reasons. In the case of products that have already received regulatory approval or products for which we may receive regulatory approval in the future, we, Smith & Nephew and any companies with which we may collaborate in the future may still face development and regulatory difficulties that may delay or impair future sales. Current Acticoat™ products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA, other federal authorities and certain state, provincial, territorial and foreign regulatory authorities. If we, Smith & Nephew or any companies with which we may collaborate in the future obtain regulatory approval for any future products, we, Smith & Nephew and any such collaborators will also be subject to extensive regulation by the FDA, other federal authorities and certain state, provincial, territorial and foreign regulatory authorities. These regulations will impact and do impact in the case of Acticoat™ products many aspects of our operations, including manufacturing, record keeping, quality control, adverse event reporting, storage, labeling, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution, export and personnel. The FDA and state, provincial, territorial and foreign agencies may conduct periodic inspections to assess compliance with these requirements. We, together with Smith & Nephew and any companies with which we may collaborate in the future, will be required to conduct post-marketing surveillance of the products. We also may be required to conduct post-marketing studies and safety monitoring. Any failure by us, Smith & Nephew or any companies with which we may collaborate in the future to comply with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements, or the discovery of previously unknown problems, may result in problems including: delays in commercialization; refusal by the FDA or other regulatory agencies to review pending applications or supplements to approved applications; product recalls or seizures; warning letters; suspension of manufacturing; withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications; fines and other civil penalties; injunctions, suspensions or revocations of marketing licenses; refusals to permit products to be imported to or exported from the United States and other countries; and civil litigation and criminal prosecutions. See “Business—Government Regulation—United States—Manufacturing cGMP Requirements.” 27 If government and third-party payors fail to provide coverage and adequate reimbursement rates for Acticoat™ products or our future products, our revenues and potential for profitability will be reduced. Our revenues currently depend in part and will continue to depend upon the reimbursement rates established by third-party payors, including government health administration authorities, managed-care providers, public health insurers, private health insurers and other organizations. These third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price, and examining the cost-effectiveness, of medical products and services. Cost control initiatives could decrease the established reimbursement rates that we receive for any products in the future, which would limit our revenues. Legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceutical products or medical devices, including the Acticoat™ products, may change at any time, which could limit or eliminate reimbursement rates for Acticoat™ or other products. If physicians, hospitals and other users of Acticoat™ products or any products we develop in the future fail to obtain sufficient reimbursement from healthcare payors for these products, or if adverse changes occur in governmental and private third-party payors’ policies toward reimbursement for these products, it could negatively affect the demand for these products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status, if any, of newly approved pharmaceutical or medical device products, and we have no assurance that adequate or any third-party coverage will be provided for any new products introduced by us. If our new products do not receive adequate coverage and reimbursement, the market acceptance of these products would be adversely affected, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may need to conduct post-marketing clinical trials in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of products. Such studies may require us to commit a significant amount of management time and financial and other resources. Future products may not be reimbursed or covered by any of these third-party payors for our targeted indications. In many foreign markets, particularly countries in the European Union and Canada, the pricing of medical products is subject to governmental control. In these countries, obtaining pricing approval from governmental authorities can take many months and sometimes years to obtain. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of a product to other available therapies. If reimbursement of such products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, then our revenues could be reduced. In the United States, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental pricing controls. We cannot predict whether the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 will have a significant effect on pricing or reimbursement for the pharmaceutical products that we are developing. Our business involves the use, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials and may subject us to environmental liability, and any future environmental liability could seriously harm our financial condition. We do not maintain insurance covering these risks. Our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the use, handling, storage and disposal of various materials commonly used in conducting these activities in the pharmaceutical industry, such as alcohols and acids. These materials are considered hazardous because they may be toxic, corrosive or flammable under certain conditions. We are subject to federal, state, provincial, local and foreign laws, regulations and policies governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of these materials. Some of our facilities are located in areas that may experience environmental contamination due to the activities of third parties. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from the use, manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of materials we use. In the event of an accident or contamination, we could be liable for damages or costs of clean-up or remediation or be penalized with fines. This liability could be substantial and exceed our resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We do not maintain insurance for environmental liabilities. We may have to incur significant costs to comply with future environmental laws and regulations. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that costs and expenses relating to environmental matters or our use of hazardous materials will not have a material adverse effect on our business. We perform and manage our clinical trials rather than relying on third-party clinical research organizations, or CROs, and since we do not have extensive experience in this area, there may be delays in completing, or a failure to complete, clinical trials that comply with regulatory requirements. We may not have the experience or the capability to take a product through the entire research and development process. 28 Specifically, we may not be able to take a product through pre-clinical development, clinical trials management, clinical data management, study design, biostatistical analysis, central laboratory and regulatory affairs. Thus, we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize, our product candidates. Further, we may not perform our clinical trials in accordance with good clinical and laboratory practices, as required by the applicable regulatory authorities. If our clinical trials fail to comply with these regulatory practices, we may be unable to use the data from those trials. Consequently, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated. We also may not be able to run our clinical trials as efficiently as a CRO and therefore we may experience a longer and more costly product development phase. This increase in the product development phase may subsequently reduce our period of patent exclusivity, and in turn diminish our potential economic returns. Failure to comply with workplace safety legislation could seriously harm our financial condition. If we fail to comply with workplace safety legislation applicable to our employees, we may be subject to sanctions, fines and penalties including but not limited to closure of our manufacturing facility, as well as litigation risks, all of which would seriously harm our financial condition. Risks Related to Intellectual Property The protection of our intellectual property rights is critical to our success and any failure on our part to adequately protect those rights would materially adversely affect our business. Patents. Our commercial success will depend in part on the patent rights we own or may license in the future. As of March 7, 2006, our patent portfolio currently comprises 18 patents and 22 pending patent applications in the United States and 60 corresponding patents and 38 corresponding patent applications in the other major markets around the world. Our success depends on maintaining these patent rights against third-party challenges to their validity, scope or enforceability. In general, our patent position is subject to the risk that a governmental agency, such as the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or PTO, or the courts may deny, narrow or invalidate patent claims. We may not be successful in securing or maintaining proprietary or patent protection for our products and candidates, and protection that we do secure may be challenged and possibly lost. Our competitors may develop products similar to ours using compositions, methods and technologies that are beyond the scope of our intellectual property rights. In addition, if we are unable to maintain our proprietary rights, other companies may be able to copy our products or manufacturing processes. For example, although we believe that we have valid patent protection for our current products until at least 2014, it is possible that, prior to the expiration of our patents, competitors will attempt to introduce products similar to ours outside of the scope of our patents. Intellectual property protection is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and technical questions. Our patents and any patent that we may license in the future may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated, or circumvented. Our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products, or provide us with any competitive advantage. The PTO, the PTO’s counterparts in other nations and the courts in the United States and elsewhere have not established a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed related to pharmaceutical patents. The allowance of broader claims may increase the incidence and cost of patent interference proceedings and the risk of infringement litigation. On the other hand, the allowance of narrower claims may limit the value of our proprietary rights. Failure to obtain or maintain patent or trade secret protection, for any reason, could adversely affect our competitiveness in the marketplace. Additionally, the laws of some countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States and Canada. For example, enforcing patents in countries such as China and Japan may be difficult due to the structures of their patent systems. In addition, litigation in these or other countries may not be cost effective when balanced against the benefit that may be obtained. Further, there may be substantial global markets in which we do not have or may not be able to secure patent protection. There are also countries where our patents may not provide us with a financial or commercial benefit due to that country’s tolerance of patent violations. In addition, our competitors or other third parties, including generic drug companies, may challenge the validity of our patent 29 claims. As a result, these patents may be narrowed in scope or invalidated and may fail to provide us with any market exclusivity or competitive advantage even after our investment of significant amounts of money. We also may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights against third-party infringement, which may be difficult to detect. In addition, we cannot assure you that third parties will not claim that we are infringing upon their patents or other intellectual property rights. If we become involved in any dispute regarding our intellectual property rights, regardless of whether we prevail, we could be required to engage in costly, distracting and time-consuming litigation that could harm our business and that could result in substantial expense. Likewise, if we were found to infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of others, we might be required to make substantial royalty or other payments to third parties or otherwise cease manufacturing and marketing the product that is alleged to be infringing such third party patent or other intellectual property right, which in either case could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Trade Secrets and Proprietary Know-how. We also rely upon trade secrets and unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation in developing our products, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. We seek to protect this intellectual property, in part, by generally requiring our employees, consultants and current and prospective business partners to enter into confidentiality agreements. We may lack the financial or other resources to successfully monitor and detect, or to enforce our rights in respect of, infringements of our rights or breaches of these confidentiality agreements. In the case of any such undetected or unchallenged infringements or breaches, these confidentiality agreements may not provide us with meaningful protection of our trade secrets and unpatented proprietary know-how or adequate remedies. In addition, others may independently develop technology that is similar or equivalent to our trade secrets or know-how. If any of our trade secrets, unpatented know-how or other confidential and proprietary information is divulged to third parties, including our competitors, our competitive position in the marketplace could be harmed and our ability to successfully sell products in our target markets could be severely compromised. Trademarks. We have received trademark registrations for the words NUCRYST™ and SILCRYST™ as well as associated designs, in many jurisdictions that we consider major markets. We have pending trademark applications in other major market jurisdictions, including the United States. If we do not adequately protect our rights in our various trademarks from infringement, any goodwill that has been developed in those marks could be lost or impaired. If the marks we use are found to infringe upon the trademark or service mark of another company, we could be forced to stop using those marks and, as a result, we could lose any goodwill which has been developed in those marks and could be liable for damages caused by any such infringement. The ability to market Acticoat™ products and any other products we develop is subject to the intellectual property rights of third parties. Acticoat™ products, and the product candidates we currently are developing and those we may develop in the future, may infringe patent and other rights of third parties. In addition, our competitors, many of which have substantially greater resources than us and have made significant investments in competing technologies or products, may seek to apply for and obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use and sell products either in North America or international markets. Intellectual property litigation in the pharmaceutical industry is common, and we expect this to continue. If we or our collaborators are found to be infringing or to have infringed upon the intellectual property rights of third parties, we may be required to license the disputed rights, if the holder of those rights is willing, or to cease marketing the challenged products, or, if possible, to modify our products to avoid infringing upon those rights. Moreover, we could be liable for royalties on past sales and significant damages, and we could be required to obtain and pay for licenses if we are to continue to manufacture our products. These licenses may not be available and, if available, could require us to pay substantial upfront fees and future royalty payments. Any patent owner may seek preliminary injunctive relief in connection with an infringement claim, as well as a permanent injunction, against us or our collaborators and, if successful in the claim, may be entitled to lost profits from infringing sales, legal fees and interest and other amounts. Any damages could be increased if there is a finding of willful infringement. Even if we and our collaborators are successful in defending an infringement claim, the expense, time delay and burden on management of litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. Many of our employees were previously employed at universities or other medical device or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former 30 employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying money damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize product candidates, which could severely harm our business. We may become involved in expensive intellectual property litigation or other proceedings related to intellectual property rights. We may deem it necessary or advisable to commence litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. Others may claim that we have infringed upon their intellectual property rights and commence litigation against us. We believe that we will be subject to an increasing number of infringement claims to the extent we produce more products. Our commercial success depends in part on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. Infringement proceedings in the pharmaceutical industry are lengthy, costly and time-consuming and their outcome is uncertain. We may also be forced to engage in litigation to enforce any patents issued or licensed to us, or to determine the scope and validity of third party proprietary rights. Moreover, if our competitors prepare and file patent applications in the United States to claim technology that is also claimed by us, we may be forced to participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention. In addition, in Europe, any patents issued to us may be challenged by third parties in opposition proceedings. Litigation and participation in such proceedings could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts, even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us. Litigation could also subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties or require us to cease using certain technology. If we become involved in any patent litigation, interference, opposition or other administrative proceedings, we will incur substantial expense and the efforts of our technical and management personnel will be significantly diverted. As a result of such litigation or proceedings we could lose our proprietary position and be restricted or prevented from developing, manufacturing and selling the affected products, incur significant damage awards, including punitive damages, or be required to seek third-party licenses that may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, we may lack the resources, whether financial or otherwise, to monitor, prosecute and enforce our intellectual property rights. Moreover, our collaborators may choose not to enforce or maintain their intellectual property rights, and we may be forced to incur substantial additional costs to maintain or enforce such rights or may incur additional risks should we choose not to maintain or enforce such rights. Risks Related to Our Common Shares There has been limited trading in our common shares and, as a result, our common share price may be highly volatile. Prior to our initial public offering, our common shares were not sold in a public market. We cannot predict the extent to which a trading market will develop or how liquid any market that may develop might become. An active trading market for our common shares may never develop or may not be sustained. The stock market in general, and the market for stocks of medical devices and pharmaceutical companies in particular, has been highly volatile. As a result, the market price of our common shares is likely to be similarly volatile, and investors in our common shares may experience a decrease, which could be substantial, in the value of their shares, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. The market price of our common shares could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including those listed elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section and others such as: • variations in our operating performance and the performance of our competitors; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly or annual operating results; • results of pre-clinical and clinical trials by us and our competitors; • matters relating to our agreements with Smith & Nephew, including fluctuations in sales of Smith & Nephew’s Acticoat™ products; 31 • assertions that our intellectual property infringes on the intellectual property rights of others or other matters calling into question our intellectual property; • changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • publication of research reports by securities analysts about us or our competitors or our industry; • our failure or the failure of our competitors to meet analysts’ projections or guidance that we or our competitors may give to the market; • additions and departures of key personnel; • strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic collaborations or investments or changes in business strategy; • the passage of legislation or other regulatory developments affecting us or our industry; • speculation in the media or investment community; • changes in accounting principles; • terrorist acts, acts of war or periods of widespread civil unrest; and • changes in general market and economic conditions. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources, and could require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments or to settle litigation. Future sales of currently restricted shares could cause the market price of our common shares to decrease significantly, even if our business is doing well. Prior to the issuance of our common shares in our initial public offering, Westaim held 100% of our outstanding common shares. As of January 27, 2006, Westaim holds approximately 75.3% of our outstanding common shares and will be able to sell these common shares in the future. Sales of a significant number of our common shares, or the perception that these sales could occur, could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common shares and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We also intend to register all common shares that we may issue under our amended equity incentive plan and upon exercise of our outstanding share options and share appreciation rights for resale in the public markets in the United States. In addition, shares issued under our amended equity incentive plan and upon the exercise of our outstanding share options and share appreciation rights may be sold without restriction in the Canadian public markets, provided there is compliance with Multilateral Instrument 45-102. As of December 31, 2005, 9,323 common shares, subject to adjustment as described below, were issuable on the exercise of share appreciation rights outstanding under our amended equity incentive plan and 713,770 common shares were issuable upon the exercise of options to purchase our common shares outstanding under our amended equity incentive plan. In addition, as of December 31, 2005, and after giving effect to the issuance of options to purchase an aggregate of 60,000 common shares to be issued to persons who became non-employee directors prior to the completion of our initial public offering, 1,416,907 common shares were reserved for future awards under our amended equity incentive plan. The outstanding share appreciation rights, or SARs, referred to above entitle the holder to receive upon exercise a payment of cash or, if provided in the award agreement, at our option, common shares. The number of common shares issuable upon exercise of these SARs varies depending upon the value of our common shares. The number of common shares issuable upon exercise of the SARs referred to above has been determined based upon the market price of our common shares on December 31, 2005. The actual number of common shares issuable upon exercise of those SARs will depend upon whether we elect to settle in cash or common shares and, if we elect to settle in common shares, the value of our common shares at the time of exercise. Therefore, the actual number of shares issuable upon exercise may be greater or less than the number of shares reflected above. 32 Westaim controls and will continue to control us and may have conflicts of interest with us or you in the future. As of January 27, 2006, Westaim owns approximately 75.3% of our outstanding common shares. In addition, certain of our directors also serve as directors of Westaim. In particular, the Chairman of our board of directors, Barry M. Heck, is the Chief Executive Officer, President and a Director of Westaim. For as long as Westaim continues to own more than 50% of our common shares, Westaim will be able to direct the election of all of the members of our board of directors. For so long as Westaim owns a significant percentage of our outstanding common shares, even if less than a majority, Westaim will be able to control or exercise a controlling influence over our business and affairs, including the incurrence of indebtedness by us, the issuance of any additional common shares or other equity securities, the repurchase of common shares and the payment of dividends, if any, and will have the power to determine or significantly influence the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including mergers, consolidations, sales or dispositions of assets, other business combinations and amendments to our articles. Westaim may take actions with which you do not agree, including actions that delay, defer or prevent a change in control of our company or that could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. In addition, Westaim may take other actions that might be favorable to Westaim but not favorable to our other shareholders. If Westaim sells all or a portion of its interest in us, it may cause the value of your investment to decrease. The amount of our net operating loss carryovers may be limited. The amount of net operating loss carryovers, or NOLs, which may be used by us for U.S. federal income tax purposes in any future year could be limited by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. In general, Section 382 would limit our ability to use NOLs for U.S. federal income tax purposes in the event of certain changes in ownership of our company, including as a result of sales of our common shares by Westaim and future offerings of common shares by us. If such limitations were triggered as a result of future shifts in ownership of us, combined with shifts in ownership that will occur as a result of the issuance of our common shares offered hereby, the use of our NOLs for U.S. federal income tax purposes would be limited. Any limitation of our use of NOLs could (depending on the extent of such limitation and the amount of NOLs previously used) result in us retaining less cash after payment of U.S. federal income taxes during any year in which we have taxable income (rather than losses) than we would be entitled to retain if such NOLs were available as an offset against such income for U.S. federal income tax reporting purposes. We do not expect the issuance of shares under our initial public offering to trigger a material limitation on the use of our NOLs. As noted elsewhere, we expect to incur losses on a quarterly and annual basis for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, we cannot predict when or if we will generate taxable income. If we are classified as a passive foreign investment company, it could have adverse tax consequences to investors. Special rules apply to certain U.S. holders that own shares in a non-U.S. corporation that is classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC. We do not believe that we will be a PFIC for the current taxable year and, based on our current business plan, we do not expect to be a PFIC in the foreseeable future. Since the determination as to whether or not a corporation is a PFIC is highly factual, however, there can be no assurance that we will not become a PFIC in future taxable years. The PFIC rules are extremely complex and could, if they apply, have significant adverse effects on the taxation of dividends received and gains realized by a U.S. holder of our common shares. Accordingly, prospective U.S. holders are strongly urged to consult their tax advisers concerning the potential application of the PFIC rules to their particular circumstances. We do not intend to pay dividends, which may adversely affect the market price of our common shares. We currently intend to retain all available cash to finance our operations and the expansion of our business and do not intend to declare or pay cash dividends on our common shares in the foreseeable future. Any future determination to pay cash dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, financial condition, current and anticipated cash needs, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. You should not rely on an investment in our company if you require dividend income from your investment. The success of your investment will likely depend entirely upon any future appreciation of the market price of our common shares, which is uncertain and unpredictable. There is no guarantee that our common shares will appreciate in value or that the value of the common shares will not decline, perhaps substantially. 33 As a foreign private issuer, we are subject to different U.S. securities laws and rules than a domestic U.S. issuer, which may limit the information publicly available to our shareholders. As a foreign private issuer we are not required to comply with all the disclosure requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 such as proxy statements and therefore there may be less publicly available information about NUCRYST than if we were a U.S. domestic issuer. In addition, our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and “short-swing” profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules thereunder. Therefore, our shareholders may not know on a timely basis when our officers, directors and principal shareholders purchase or sell our common shares. All of our directors and officers will be subject to the insider reporting rules under Canadian securities legislation. You may be unable to enforce actions against us or certain of our directors and officers under U.S. federal securities laws. We are a corporation organized under the laws of Alberta, Canada. A majority of our directors and certain of our officers reside outside of the United States. Service of process upon such persons may be difficult or impossible to effect within the United States. Furthermore, because a substantial portion of our assets, and substantially all of the assets of our non-U.S. directors and officers and the Canadian experts named herein, are located outside of the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States, including a judgment based upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws, against us or any of such persons may not be collectible within the United States. In addition, there is doubt as to the applicability of the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities law to original actions instituted in Canada. It may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to assert U.S. securities laws claims in original actions instituted in Canada. Therefore, it may not be possible to enforce those actions against us or certain of our directors and officers. We have outstanding options and share appreciation rights that have the potential to dilute shareholder value and cause the price of our common shares to decline. In the past, we have offered, and we expect to continue to offer, share options, share appreciation rights or other forms of share-based compensation to our directors, officers and employees. Share options and share appreciation rights issued in the past have per share exercise prices below the initial public offering price per share in our initial public offering. As of December 31, 2005, we had options outstanding to purchase 713,770 of our common shares at a weighted average exercise price of $2.98 per share. As of December 31, 2005 we had outstanding share appreciation rights to purchase 9,323 of our common shares at a weighted average exercise price of $2.64 per share. The exercise price of our outstanding share options and share appreciation rights are stated in Canadian dollars, and the foregoing weighted average exercise prices, which are stated in United States dollars, are based upon the noon buying rate reported by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on December 31, 2005. The outstanding share appreciation rights entitle the holder to receive upon exercise a payment of cash or, if provided in the award agreement, at our option, common shares. In addition, the number of common shares issuable upon exercise of these share appreciation rights varies depending upon the value of our common shares. The number of common shares issuable upon exercise of the share appreciation rights referred to in this paragraph has been determined based upon an assumed value of our common shares on December 31, 2005. The actual number of common shares issuable upon exercise of those share appreciation rights will depend upon whether we elect to settle in cash or common shares and, if we elect to settle in common shares, the value of our common shares at the time of exercise. Therefore, the actual number of shares issuable upon exercise of the share appreciation rights may be greater or less than the number of shares reflected in this paragraph. If some or all of these options or share appreciation rights are exercised and such shares are sold into the public market, the market price of our common shares may decline. Our articles and certain Canadian laws could delay or deter a change of control. Our authorized preferred shares are available for issuance from time to time at the discretion of our board of directors, without shareholder approval. Our board of directors may amend our articles to fix the number of preferred shares in, and determine the designation of the shares of, each series of preferred shares and may create, define and attach voting, dividend and other rights and restrictions to the shares of each series, subject to the rights and restrictions attached to our preferred shares as a class. The economic, voting and other rights attaching to a particular series of our preferred shares may be superior to those of our common shares and may dilute or otherwise adversely affect the voting and economic interests of the holders of our common shares. Limitations on the ability to acquire and hold our common shares may be imposed by the Competition Act (Canada). This legislation permits the Commissioner of Competition of Canada, or Commissioner, to review any acquisition of a significant interest in us. This legislation grants the Commissioner jurisdiction, for up to three years, to seek a remedial order, including an order to 34 prohibit the acquisition, from the Canadian Competition Tribunal, which order may be granted where the Competition Tribunal finds that the acquisition substantially prevents or lessens, or is likely to prevent or lessen, competition in any market in Canada. The Investment Canada Act (Canada), or Investment Act, requires each “non-Canadian,” as determined in the Investment Act, who commences a new business activity in Canada or acquires control of an existing Canadian business, where the establishment or acquisition of control is not a reviewable transaction by Canadian authorities under the Investment Act, to file a notification in prescribed form. Subject to certain exceptions, a transaction that is reviewable under the Investment Act may not be implemented until an application for review has been filed and the responsible Minister of the federal cabinet has determined that the investment is likely to be of “net benefit to Canada” taking into account the factors, where relevant, set out in the Investment Act. An investment in our common shares by a non-Canadian would be reviewable under the Investment Act if it were an investment to acquire control of us and the value of our assets was C$5.0 million or more as determined pursuant to the Investment Act. Any of the foregoing may make it more difficult for shareholders to replace our management, and could prevent or delay a change of control of our company and deprive or limit strategic opportunities for our shareholders to sell their shares. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 