ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us Our only assets are our partnership interests in ARLP and therefore our operating cash flow is completely dependent upon the ability of ARLP to make distributions to its partners. The amount of cash that ARLP can distribute to its partners, including us, each quarter principally depends on the amount of cash it generates from its operations, which fluctuates from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: • the amount of coal the ARLP Partnership is able to produce from its properties; • the price at which the ARLP Partnership is able to sell coal, which is affected by the supply of and demand for domestic and foreign coal; • the level of the ARLP Partnership’s operating costs; • weather conditions; • the proximity to and capacity of transportation facilities; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures; and • prevailing economic conditions. 19 Table of Contents In addition, the actual amount of cash that ARLP will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, including: • the level of its capital expenditures; • the cost of acquisitions, if any; • its debt service requirements and restrictions on distributions contained in its current or future debt agreements; • fluctuations in its working capital needs; • the ability of ARLP to borrow under its credit agreement to make distributions to its unitholders; and • the amount, if any, of cash reserves established by MGP for the proper conduct of ARLP’s business. Because of these factors, ARLP may not have sufficient available cash to pay a specific level of cash distributions at the current level or at all. Furthermore, the amount of cash that ARLP has available for distribution depends primarily upon its cash flow, including cash flow from financial reserves and working capital borrowing, and is not solely a function of profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, ARLP may be able to make cash distributions during periods when it records net losses and may be unable to make cash distributions during periods when it records net income. Please read “-Risks Related to Alliance Resource Partners’ Business” for a discussion of further risks affecting ARLP’s ability to generate distributable cash flow. In the future, we may not have sufficient cash to pay distributions at our current quarterly distribution level or to increase distributions. The source of our earnings and cash flow consists of cash distributions from ARLP. Therefore, the amount of distributions we are able to make to our unitholders may fluctuate based on the level of distributions ARLP makes to its partners. We cannot assure you that ARLP will continue to make quarterly distributions at its current level or increase its quarterly distributions in the future. In addition, while we would expect to increase or decrease distributions to our unitholders if ARLP increases or decreases distributions to us, the timing and amount of such increased or decreased distributions, if any, will not necessarily be comparable to the timing and amount of the increase or decrease in distributions made by ARLP to us. Our ability to distribute cash received from ARLP to our unitholders is limited by a number of factors, including: • interest expense and principal payments on our indebtedness; • restrictions on distributions contained in any current or future debt agreements; • our general and administrative expenses; • expenses of our subsidiaries other than ARLP, including tax liabilities of our corporate subsidiaries, if any; • reserves necessary for us to make the necessary capital contributions to maintain our 1.98% general partner interest in ARLP as required by the partnership agreement of ARLP upon the issuance of additional partnership securities by ARLP; and • reserves our general partner believes prudent for us to maintain for the proper conduct of our business or to provide for future distributions. We cannot guarantee that in the future we will be able to pay distributions or that any distributions we do make will be at or above our current quarterly distribution level. The actual amount of cash that is available for distribution to our unitholders will depend on numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control or the control of our general partner. We do not have any subordinated units, which would have their distributions reduced before distributions to the common units are reduced. ARLP’s managing general partner, with our consent, may limit or modify the incentive distributions we are entitled to receive in order to facilitate ARLP’s growth strategy. Our general partner’s board of directors can give this consent without a vote of our unitholders. We own ARLP’s managing general partner, which owns the incentive distribution rights in ARLP that entitle us to receive increasing percentages, up to a maximum of 48%, of any cash distributed by ARLP, as certain target distribution levels are reached in excess of $0.275 per ARLP unit in any quarter. The incentive distribution rights currently participate at the maximum 48% target cash distribution level. A substantial portion of the cash flow we receive from ARLP is provided by these incentive distribution rights. The MGP Board of Directors may reduce the incentive distribution rights payable to us with our consent, which we may provide without the approval of our unitholders. 20 Table of Contents A reduction in ARLP’s distributions will disproportionately affect the amount of cash distributions to which we are currently entitled. MGP’s ownership of the incentive distribution rights in ARLP entitles us to receive specified percentages of total cash distributions made by ARLP with respect to any particular quarter only in the event that ARLP distributes more than $0.275 per unit for such quarter. As a result, the holders of ARLP’s common units have a priority over the holders of ARLP’s incentive distribution rights to the extent of cash distributions by ARLP up to and including $0.275 per unit for any quarter. MGP’s incentive distribution rights entitle us to receive increasing percentages, up to 48%, of all cash distributed by ARLP. Because the incentive distribution rights currently participate at the maximum 48% target cash distribution level, future growth in distributions we receive from ARLP will not result from an increase in the target cash distribution level associated with the incentive distribution rights. Furthermore, a decrease in the amount of distributions by ARLP to less than $0.375 per common unit per quarter would reduce MGP’s percentage of the incremental cash distributions above $0.3125 per common unit per quarter from 48% to 23%. As a result, any such reduction in quarterly cash distributions from ARLP would disproportionately reduce the amount of all distributions that we receive from ARLP as compared to the impact on the holders of common units only. Restrictions in future financing agreements could limit our ability to make distributions to our unitholders, borrow additional funds or capitalize on business opportunities. There is no material operating or financial restrictions or covenants in our existing credit facility with C-Holdings, LLC (“C-Holdings”). However, any future credit facility could include such provisions and our ability to comply with them may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. Failure to comply with any such restrictions or covenants could have significant consequences, such as causing a significant portion of the indebtedness under such a facility to become immediately due and payable or our lenders’ commitment to make further loans to us under such facility to terminate. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make such payments. Our payment of principal and interest on any future indebtedness will reduce our cash available for distribution on our units. In addition, any future levels of indebtedness may: • adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing for future operations or capital needs; • limit our ability to pursue acquisitions and other business opportunities; or • make our results of operations more susceptible to adverse economic or operating conditions. For more information regarding our credit facility, please read “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations—Debt Obligations.” Our unitholders do not elect our general partner or vote on our general partner’s officers or directors. Certain current and former members of management and their affiliates currently own 79.86% of our units, a sufficient number to block any attempt to remove our general partner. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, our unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Our unitholders do not have the ability to elect our general partner or the officers or directors of our general partner. The board of directors of our general partner, including our independent directors, is chosen by the members of our general partner. Furthermore, if our unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have little ability to remove our general partner. Our general partner may not be removed except upon the vote of the holders of at least 2/3rds of our outstanding units. Because certain current and former members of our management and their affiliates currently own 79.86% of our outstanding common units, it will be particularly difficult for our general partner to be removed without their consent. As a result, the price at which our units trade may be lower because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. 21 Table of Contents We may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests without the consent of our unitholders, which will dilute your ownership interest in us and may increase the risk that we will not have sufficient available cash to maintain or increase our per unit distribution level. At any time we may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests of any type without the approval of our unitholders on terms and conditions established by our general partner. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; • the ratio of taxable income to distributions may increase; and • the market price of our common units may decline. The market price of our common units could be adversely affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common units in the public markets, including sales by our existing unitholders. Sales by any of our existing unitholders of a substantial number of our common units in the public markets, or the perception that such sales might occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common units or could impair our ability to obtain capital through an offering of equity securities. We do not know whether any such sales would be made in the public market or in private placements, nor do we know what impact such potential or actual sales would have on our unit price in the future. Control of our general partner and the incentive distribution rights in ARLP may be transferred to a third-party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest in us to a third-party in a merger or in a sale of its equity securities without the consent of our unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in the partnership agreement on the ability of the owner of our general partner to sell or transfer all or part of its ownership interest in our general partner to a third-party. The new owner or owners of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the directors and officers of our general partner and control the decisions made and actions taken by its board of directors and officers. In addition, the owner of our general partner controls MGP, the owner of the incentive distribution rights in ARLP. Control of MGP can likewise be transferred to a third-party without unitholder consent. Our ability to sell our partnership interests in ARLP may be limited by securities law restrictions and liquidity constraints. Of the 15,544,169 common units of ARLP that we own, 6,422,531 common units are unregistered, restricted securities within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”). Unless we exercise our registration rights with respect to these common units, we are limited to selling into the market in any three-month period an amount of ARLP common units that does not exceed the greater of 1% of the total number of common units outstanding or the average weekly reported trading volume of the common units for the four calendar weeks prior to the sale. We face contractual limitations on our ability to sell our general partner interest and incentive distribution rights and the market for such interests is illiquid. We depend on the leadership and involvement of Joseph W. Craft III and other key personnel for the success of our and ARLP’s business. We depend on the leadership and involvement of Joseph W. Craft III, the President and Chief Executive Officer of our general partner and ARLP’s managing general partner. Mr. Craft has been integral to the success of ARLP and us due in part to his ability to identify and develop internal growth projects and accretive acquisitions, make strategic decisions and attract and retain key personnel. The loss of his leadership and involvement or the services of any members of our or ARLP’s senior management team could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations of us and ARLP. Several key personnel, including Messrs. Craft, Charles R. Wesley and Thomas M. Wynne, received substantial amounts of the proceeds from our IPO in May 2006. As a result of these cash payments, there is an increased risk that key personnel will retire or resign in the future. 22 Table of Contents Your liability as a limited partner may not be limited, and our unitholders may have to repay distributions or make additional contributions to us under certain circumstances. As a limited partner in a partnership organized under Delaware law, you could be held liable for our obligations to the same extent as a general partner if you participate in the “control” of our business. Our general partner generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. Additionally, the limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in many jurisdictions. Under certain circumstances, our unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, neither we nor ARLP may make a distribution to our unitholders if the distribution would cause our or ARLP’s respective liabilities to exceed the fair value of our respective assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the partnership for the distribution amount. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. An increase in interest rates may cause the market price of our common units to decline. Like all equity investments, an investment in our common units is subject to certain risks. In exchange for accepting these risks, investors may expect to receive a higher rate of return than would otherwise be obtainable from lower-risk investments. Accordingly, as interest rates rise, the ability of investors to obtain higher risk-adjusted rates of return by purchasing government-backed debt securities may cause a corresponding decline in demand for riskier investments generally, including yield-based equity investments such as publicly traded limited partnership interests. Reduced demand for our common units resulting from investors seeking other more favorable investment opportunities may cause the trading price of our common units to decline. If in the future we cease to manage and control ARLP, we may be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we cease to manage and control ARLP and are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940 because of our ownership of ARLP partnership interests, we would either have to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, obtain exemptive relief from the Commission or modify our organizational structure or our contract rights to fall outside the definition of an investment company. Registering as an investment company could, among other things, materially limit our ability to engage in transactions with affiliates, including the purchase and sale of certain securities or other property to or from our affiliates, restrict our ability to borrow funds or engage in other transactions involving leverage and require us to add additional directors who are independent of us or our affiliates. The price of our common units may be volatile, and the trading market for our common units may not provide you with adequate liquidity. The market price of our common units could be subject to significant fluctuations. The following factors could affect our common unit price: • ARLP’s operating and financial performance and prospects; • quarterly variations in the rate of growth of our financial indicators, such as distributable cash flow per unit, net income and revenues; • changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports by analysts; • speculation by the press or investment community; • sales of our common units by our unitholders; • actions by our existing unitholders prior to their disposition of our common units; • announcements by ARLP or its competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, securities offerings or capital commitments; • general market conditions; and • domestic and international economic, legal and regulatory factors related to ARLP’s performance. 23 Table of Contents The equity markets in general have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common units. In addition, potential investors may be deterred from investing in our common units for various reasons, including the very limited number of publicly traded entities whose assets consist almost exclusively of partnership interests in a publicly traded partnership. The lack of liquidity may also contribute to significant fluctuations in the market price of our common units and limit the number of investors who are able to buy our common units. Our common units and ARLP’s common units may not trade in simple relation or proportion to one another. Instead, while the trading prices of our common units and ARLP’s common units are likely to follow generally similar broad trends, the trading prices may diverge because, among other things: • ARLP’s cash distributions to its common unitholders have a priority over distributions on its incentive distribution rights; • AHGP participates in the incentive distribution rights in ARLP while ARLP’s common unitholders do not; and • AHGP may enter into other businesses separate and apart from ARLP or any of its affiliates. Our partnership agreement restricts the rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our units. Our unitholders’ voting rights are restricted by the provision in our partnership agreement generally providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot be voted on any matter. In addition, our partnership agreement contains provisions limiting the ability of our unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting our unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of our management. As a result, the price at which our common units will trade may be lower because of the absence or reduction of a takeover premium in the trading price. ARLP may issue additional units, which may increase the risk that ARLP will not have sufficient available cash to maintain or increase its per unit distribution level. ARLP has wide latitude to issue additional units on terms and conditions established by its managing general partner, including units that rank senior to the ARLP common units and the incentive distribution rights as to quarterly cash distributions. The payment of distributions on those additional units may increase the risk that ARLP may not have sufficient cash available to maintain or increase its per unit distribution level, which in turn may impact the available cash that we have to distribute to our unitholders. To the extent these units are senior to the common units or the incentive distribution rights, there is an increased risk that we will not receive the same level or increased distributions on the common units and incentive distribution rights. Neither the common units nor the incentive distribution rights are entitled to any arrearages from prior quarters. Risks Related to Conflicts of Interest Conflicts of interest exist and may arise in the future among us, ARLP and our respective general partners and affiliates. Future conflicts of interest may arise among us and the entities affiliated with any general partner interests we acquire or among ARLP and such entities. For a further discussion of conflicts of interest that may arise, please read “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions, and Director Independence.” Although we control ARLP through our ownership of ARLP’s managing general partner, ARLP’s managing general partner owes fiduciary duties to ARLP and ARLP’s unitholders, which may conflict with our interests. Conflicts of interest exist and may arise in the future as a result of the relationships between us and our affiliates, including ARLP’s managing general partner, on the one hand, and ARLP and its limited partners, on the other hand. The directors and officers of ARLP’s managing general partner have fiduciary duties to manage ARLP in a manner beneficial to us, its owner. At the same time, ARLP’s managing general partner has a fiduciary duty to manage ARLP in a manner beneficial to ARLP and its limited partners. The MGP Board of Directors will resolve any such conflict and has broad latitude to consider the interests of all parties to the conflict. The resolution of these conflicts may not always be in our best interest or that of our unitholders. 24 Table of Contents For example, conflicts of interest may arise in the following situations: • the allocation of shared overhead expenses to ARLP and us; • the interpretation and enforcement of contractual obligations between us and our affiliates, on the one hand, and ARLP, on the other hand; • the determination and timing of the amount of cash to be distributed to ARLP’s partners and the amount of cash to be reserved for the future conduct of ARLP’s business; • the decision as to whether ARLP should make acquisitions, and on what terms; • the determination of whether ARLP should use cash on hand, borrow or issue equity to raise cash to finance acquisition or expansion capital projects, repay indebtedness, meet working capital needs, pay distributions to ARLP’s partners or otherwise; and • any decision we make in the future to engage in business activities independent of, or in competition with, ARLP. The fiduciary duties of our general partner’s officers and directors may conflict with those of ARLP’s general partner’s officers and directors. Our general partner’s officers and directors have fiduciary duties to manage our business in a manner beneficial to us and our partners. However, all of our general partner’s executive officers also serve as executive officers of MGP. In addition, our general partner’s non-independent director and one of our independent directors also serve as directors of MGP. As a result, these executive officers and directors have fiduciary duties to manage the business of ARLP in a manner beneficial to ARLP and its partners. Consequently, these directors and officers may encounter situations in which their fiduciary obligations to ARLP, on one hand, and us, on the other hand, are in conflict. The resolution of these conflicts may not always be in our best interest or that of our unitholders. If we are presented with certain business opportunities, ARLP will have the first right to pursue such opportunities. Pursuant to an agreement among ARLP, SGP, MGP, ARH, ARH II, our general partner and us, among others, (referred to as the omnibus agreement), we have agreed to certain business opportunity arrangements to address potential conflicts that may arise between us and ARLP. If a business opportunity in respect of any coal mining, marketing and transportation assets is presented to us, our general partner or ARLP or its general partners, then ARLP will have the first right to acquire such assets. The omnibus agreement provides, among other things, that ARLP will be presumed to desire to acquire the assets until such time as it advises us that it has abandoned the pursuit of such business opportunity, and we may not pursue the acquisition of such assets prior to that time. ARLP and affiliates of our general partner are not limited in their ability to compete with us, which could cause conflicts of interest and limit our ability to acquire additional assets or businesses which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Neither our partnership agreement nor the omnibus agreement will prohibit ARLP or affiliates of our general partner from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us or one another. In addition, ARLP and its affiliates or affiliates of our general partner, may acquire, construct or dispose of additional assets related to the mining, marketing and transportation of coal or other assets in the future, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or construct any of those assets. As a result, competition among these entities could adversely impact ARLP’s or our results of operations and cash available for distribution. Potential conflicts of interest may arise among our general partner, its affiliates and us. Our general partner and its affiliates have limited fiduciary duties to us and our unitholders, which may permit them to favor their own interests to the detriment of us and our unitholders. Conflicts of interest may arise among our general partner and its affiliates, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following: • Our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, including ARLP and its affiliates and any other businesses acquired in the future, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to our unitholders. 25 Table of Contents • Our general partner has limited its liability and reduced its fiduciary duties under the terms of our partnership agreement, while also restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without these limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duties. As a result of purchasing our units, unitholders consent to various actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable state law. • Our general partner determines the amount and timing of our investment transactions, borrowings, issuances of additional partnership securities and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available for distribution to our unitholders. • Our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us. • Our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered, or from entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf, so long as the terms of any such payments or additional contractual arrangements are fair and reasonable to us. • Our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by it and its affiliates. • Our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. The president and chief executive officer of both our general partner and ARLP’s managing general partner effectively controls us and ARLP through his control of our general partner and ARLP’s managing general partner. Joseph W. Craft III, the president and chief executive officer of both our general partner and ARLP’s managing general partner, controls ARLP’s managing general partner, indirectly owns SGP and owns the outstanding interests of the parent of SGP and owns or controls 43.43% of ARLP’s common units. Mr. Craft also currently holds, directly or indirectly or may be deemed to be the beneficial owner of, 79.86% of our common units. These interests give Mr. Craft substantial control over our and ARLP’s business and operations and the ability to control the outcome of many matters that require unitholder approval. Mr. Craft is not restricted from disposing of all or a part of his equity interests in our general partner, in ARLP’s managing general partner or in the indirect parent of ARLP’s special general partner. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to us and our unitholders and restricts the remedies available to our unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement: • permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner. Examples include the exercise of its limited call right, its voting rights with respect to the units it owns, its registration rights and its determination whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of our partnership or amendment to our partnership agreement; • provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as a general partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning it believed the decisions were in the best interests of our partnership; • generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the audit and conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or be “fair and reasonable” to us and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships among the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; • provides that in resolving conflicts of interest, it will be presumed that in making its decision our general partner acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or us, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption; and • provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that the general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct or, in the case of a criminal matter, acted with knowledge that such person’s conduct was criminal. 26 Table of Contents In order to become a limited partner of our partnership, our unitholders are required to agree to be bound by the provisions in the partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require you to sell your units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 85% of our outstanding units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, you may be required to sell your units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on your investment. You may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of your units. Certain members of management and their affiliates currently own approximately 79.86% of our common units. Risks Related to ARLP’s Business Because our cash flow consists exclusively of distributions from ARLP, risks to the ARLP Partnership’s business are also risks to us. We have set forth below many of the risks to ARLP’s business or results of operations, the occurrence of which could negatively impact the ARLP Partnership’s financial performance and decrease the amount of cash it is able to distribute to us, thereby decreasing the amount of cash we have available for distribution to our unitholders. A substantial or extended decline in coal prices could negatively impact the ARLP Partnership’s results of operations. The prices the ARLP Partnership receives for its production depends upon factors beyond its control, including: • the supply of and demand for domestic and foreign coal; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • weather conditions; • the proximity to, and capacity of, transportation facilities; • worldwide economic conditions; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; and • the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures. A substantial or extended decline in coal prices could materially and adversely affect the ARLP Partnership by decreasing its revenues in the event that it is not otherwise protected pursuant to the specific terms of its coal supply agreements. A material amount of the ARLP Partnership’s net income and cash flow has been dependent on its ability to realize direct or indirect benefits from federal income tax credits such as non-conventional source fuel tax credits. The non-conventional source fuel tax credit expired on December 31, 2007. The loss of the benefits from these tax credits could negatively impact ARLP’s results of operations and reduce its cash available for distributions. In 2007, the ARLP Partnership derived a material amount of its net income under long-term synfuel-related agreements with SSO, PCIN and Mt. Storm (see discussions under “Warrior Complex,” “Gibson Complex” and “Mettiki (WV)” in Item 1. Business). These agreements terminated on December 31, 2007 in connection with the expiration on that date of the non-conventional synfuel tax credit. In 2007, the incremental net income benefit to the ARLP Partnership from these synfuel-related agreements was approximately $28.5 million. The elimination of synfuel tax credits and the loss of related benefits could negatively impact the ARLP Partnership’s results of operations and reduce its cash available for distributions. Competition within the coal industry may adversely affect the ARLP Partnership’s ability to sell coal, and excess production capacity in the industry could put downward pressure on coal prices. The ARLP Partnership competes with other large coal producers and hundreds of small coal producers in various regions of the United States for domestic coal sales. The industry has undergone significant consolidation over the last decade. This consolidation has led to several competitors having significantly larger financial and operating resources than the ARLP Partnership has. In addition, the ARLP Partnership competes to some extent with western surface coal mining operations that have a much lower per ton cost of production and produce low-sulfur coal. Over the last 20 years, growth in production from western coal mines has substantially exceeded growth in production from the east. Declining prices from an oversupply of coal in the market could reduce the ARLP Partnership’s revenues and its cash available for distribution. 27 Table of Contents Any change in consumption patterns by utilities away from the use of coal could affect the ARLP Partnership’s ability to sell the coal it produces. Some power plants are fueled by natural gas because of the relatively cheaper construction costs of such plants compared to coal-fired plants and because natural gas is a cleaner burning fuel. The domestic electric utility industry accounts for approximately 90% of domestic coal consumption. The amount of coal consumed by the domestic electric utility industry is affected primarily by the overall demand for electricity, the price and availability of competing fuels for power plants such as nuclear, natural gas and fuel oil as well as hydroelectric power, and environmental and other governmental regulations. A decrease in coal consumption by the domestic electric utility industry could adversely affect the price of coal, which could negatively impact the ARLP Partnership’s results of operations and reduce its cash available for distribution. From time to time conditions in the coal industry may make it more difficult for the ARLP Partnership to extend existing or enter into new long-term coal supply agreements. This could affect the stability and profitability of the ARLP Partnership’s operations. A substantial decrease in the amount of coal sold by the ARLP Partnership pursuant to long-term contracts would reduce the certainty of the price and amounts of coal sold and subject its revenue stream to increased volatility. If that were to happen, changes in spot market coal prices would have a greater impact on the ARLP Partnership’s results, and any decreases in the spot market price for coal could adversely affect its profitability and cash flow. In 2007, the ARLP Partnership sold approximately 90.2% of its sales tonnage under contracts having a term greater than one year. The ARLP Partnership refers to these contracts as long-term contracts. Long-term sales contracts have historically provided a relatively secure market for the amount of production committed under the terms of the contracts. From time to time industry conditions may make it more difficult for the ARLP Partnership to enter into long-term contracts with its electric utility customers, and if supply exceeds demand in the coal industry, electric utilities may become less willing to lock in price or quantity commitments for an extended period of time. Accordingly, the ARLP Partnership may not be able to continue to obtain long-term sales contracts with reliable customers as existing contracts expire. Some of the ARLP Partnership’s long-term coal supply agreements contain provisions allowing for the renegotiation of prices and, in some instances, the termination of the contract or the suspension of purchases by customers. Some of the ARLP Partnership’s long-term contracts contain provisions that allow for the purchase price to be renegotiated at periodic intervals. These price reopener provisions may automatically set a new price based on the prevailing market price or, in some instances, require the parties to the contract to agree on a new price. Any adjustment or renegotiation leading to a significantly lower contract price could adversely affect the ARLP Partnership’s operating profit margins. Accordingly, long-term contracts may provide only limited protection during adverse market conditions. In some circumstances, failure of the parties to agree on a price under a reopener provision can also lead to early termination of a contract. Several of the ARLP Partnership’s long-term contracts also contain provisions that allow the customer to suspend or terminate performance under the contract upon the occurrence or continuation of certain specified events. These events are called “force majeure” events. Some of these events that are specific to the coal industry include: • the ARLP Partnership’s inability to deliver the quantities or qualities of coal specified; • changes in the CAA rendering use of the ARLP Partnership’s coal inconsistent with the customer’s pollution control strategies; and • the occurrence of events beyond the reasonable control of the affected party, including labor disputes, mechanical malfunctions and changes in government regulations. In the event of early termination of any of the ARLP Partnership’s long-term contracts, if the ARLP Partnership is unable to enter into new contracts on similar terms, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 28 Table of Contents Extensive environmental laws and regulations affect coal consumers, which have corresponding effects on the demand for the ARLP Partnership’s coal as a fuel source. Federal, state and local laws and regulations extensively regulate the amount of sulfur dioxide, particulate matter, nitrogen oxides, mercury and other compounds emitted into the air from coal-fired electric power plants, which are the ultimate consumers of the ARLP Partnership’s coal. These laws and regulations can require significant emission control expenditures for many coal-fired power plants, and various new and proposed laws and regulations may require further emission reductions and associated emission control expenditures. A substantial portion of the ARLP Partnership’s coal has a high sulfur content, which may result in increased sulfur dioxide emissions when combusted. Accordingly, these laws and regulations may affect demand and prices for the ARLP Partnership’s low- and high-sulfur coal. There is also continuing pressure on state and federal regulators to impose limits on carbon dioxide emissions from electric power plants, particularly coal-fired power plants. As a result of these current and proposed laws, regulations and regulatory initiatives, electricity generators may elect to switch to other fuels that generate less of these emissions, possibly further reducing demand for the ARLP Partnership’s coal. Please read “Item 1. Business – Regulation and Laws—Air Emissions” and “—Carbon Dioxide Emissions.” The ARLP Partnership depends on a few customers for a significant portion of its revenues, and the loss of one or more significant customers could affect the ARLP Partnership’s ability to maintain the sales volume and price of the coal it produces. During 2007, the ARLP Partnership derived approximately 37.9% of its total revenues from three customers, which individually accounted for 10.0% or more of its 2007 total revenues. If the ARLP Partnership were to lose any of these customers without finding replacement customers willing to purchase an equivalent amount of coal on similar terms, or if these customers were to decrease the amounts of coal purchased or the terms, including pricing terms, on which they buy coal from the ARLP Partnership, it could have a material adverse effect on the ARLP Partnership’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Litigation resulting from disputes with the ARLP Partnership’s customers may result in substantial costs, liabilities and loss of revenues. From time to time the ARLP Partnership has disputes with its customers over the provisions of long-term coal supply contracts relating to, among other things, coal pricing, quality, quantity and the existence of specified conditions beyond the ARLP Partnership’s control that suspend performance obligations under the particular contract. Disputes may occur in the future and the ARLP Partnership may not be able to resolve those disputes in a satisfactory manner. The ARLP Partnership’s profitability may decline due to unanticipated mine operating conditions and other events that are not within its control and that may not be fully covered under its insurance policies. The ARLP Partnership’s mining operations are influenced by changing conditions or events that can affect production levels and costs at particular mines for varying lengths of time and, as a result, can diminish the ARLP Partnership’s profitability. These conditions and events include, among others: • fires; • mining and processing equipment failures and unexpected maintenance problems; • prices for fuel, steel, explosives and other supplies; • fines and penalties incurred as a result of alleged violations of environmental and safety laws and regulations; • variations in thickness of the layer, or seam, of coal; • amounts of overburden, partings, rock and other natural materials; • weather conditions, such as heavy rains and flooding; • accidental mine water discharges and other geological conditions; • employee injuries or fatalities; • labor-related interruptions; • inability to acquire mining rights or permits; and • fluctuations in transportation costs and the availability or reliability of transportation. 29 Table of Contents These conditions have had, and can be expected in the future to have, a significant impact on the ARLP Partnership’s operating results. Prolonged disruption of production at any of the ARLP Partnership’s mines would result in a decrease in its revenues and profitability, which could materially adversely impact its quarterly or annual results. During September 2007, the ARLP Partnership completed its annual property and casualty insurance renewal with various insurance coverages effective as of October 1, 2007. Available capacity for underwriting property insurance continues to be limited as a result of insurance carrier losses in the mining industry. As a result, the ARLP Partnership has elected to retain a participating interest along with its insurance carriers at an average rate of approximately 14.7% in the overall $75.0 million commercial property program, representing 35% of the primary $30.0 million layer and 2.5% of the second layer of $20.0 million in excess of the $30.0 million primary layer. The ARLP Partnership does not participate in the third layer of $25.0 million in excess of $50.0 million. The 14.7% participation rate for this year’s renewal is consistent with the ARLP Partnership’s prior year participation. The aggregate maximum limit in the commercial property program is $75.0 million per occurrence of which, as a result of its participation, the ARLP Partnership would be responsible for a maximum amount of $11.0 million for each occurrence, excluding a $1.5 million deductible for property damage, a 60-day waiting period for business interruption and an additional $5.0 million aggregate deductible. The ARLP Partnership can make no assurances that it will not experience significant insurance claims in the future, which as a result of its level of participation in the commercial property program, could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to purchase property insurance in the future. A shortage of skilled labor may make it difficult for the ARLP Partnership to maintain labor productivity and competitive costs and could adversely affect its profitability. Efficient coal mining using modern techniques and equipment requires skilled laborers, preferably with at least one year of experience and proficiency in multiple mining tasks. In recent years, a shortage of trained coal miners has caused the ARLP Partnership to operate certain mining units without full experienced staff, which decreases its productivity and increases its costs. This shortage of trained coal miners is the result of a significant percentage of experienced coal miners reaching retirement age, combined with the difficulty of retaining existing workers in and attracting new workers to the coal industry. Thus, this shortage of skilled labor could continue over an extended period. If the shortage of experienced labor continues or worsens, it could have an adverse impact on the ARLP Partnership’s labor productivity and costs and its ability to expand production in the event there is an increase in the demand for its coal, which could adversely affect its profitability. Although none of the ARLP Partnership’s employees are members of unions, its work force may not remain union-free in the future. None of the ARLP Partnership’s employees are represented under collective bargaining agreements. However, all of the ARLP Partnership’s work force may not remain union-free in the future. If some or all of the ARLP Partnership’s currently union-free operations were to become unionized, it could adversely affect its productivity and increase the risk of work stoppages at its mining complexes. In addition, even if the ARLP Partnership remains union-free, its operations may still be adversely affected by work stoppages at unionized companies, particularly if union workers were to orchestrate boycotts against the ARLP Partnership’s operations. The ARLP Partnership may be unable to obtain and renew permits necessary for its operations, which could reduce its production, cash flow and profitability. Mining companies must obtain numerous governmental permits or approvals that impose strict conditions and obligations relating to various environmental and safety matters in connection with coal mining. The permitting rules are complex and can change over time. Regulatory authorities exercise considerable discretion in the timing and scope of permit issuance. The public has the right to comment on permit applications and otherwise participate in the permitting process, including through court intervention. Accordingly, permits required by the ARLP Partnership to conduct its operations may not be issued, maintained or renewed, or may not be issued or renewed in a timely fashion, or may involve requirements that restrict its ability to economically conduct its mining operations. Limitations on the ARLP Partnership’s ability to conduct its mining operations due to the inability to obtain or renew necessary permits or similar approvals could reduce its production, cash flow and profitability. Please read “Item 1. Business – Regulations and Laws—Mining Permits and Approvals.” 30 Table of Contents Lawsuits filed in the federal Southern District of Western Virginia and in the federal Eastern District of Kentucky have sought to enjoin the issuance of permits pursuant to Nationwide Permit 21, which is a general permit issued by the Corps of Engineers to streamline the process for obtaining permits under Section 404 of the CWA. In the event current or future litigation contesting the use of Nationwide Permit 21 is successful, the ARLP Partnership may be required to apply for individual discharge permits pursuant to Section 404 of the CWA in areas that would have otherwise utilized Nationwide Permit 21. In addition, lawsuits filed in the federal Southern District of West Virginia and in the federal Western District of Kentucky have challenged the Corps of Engineers’ issuance of certain individual Section 404 permits and led to a decision on March 23, 2007, by the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of West Virginia rescinding the permits in question based on a finding that the Corps of Engineers issued the permits in violation of the CWA and National Environmental Policy Act. This decision is currently on appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. Although the ARLP Partnership’s mining operations are not implicated in any of these particular cases, it is possible that this ruling may have long-term effects on the Corps of Engineers’ ability to issue CWA permits and could thereby adversely affect its results of operation and financial position. Such a change could result in delays in obtaining required mining permits to conduct operations, which could in turn result in reduced production, cash flow and profitability. Please read “Item 1. Business – Regulations and Laws – Water Discharge.” Fluctuations in transportation costs and the availability or reliability of transportation could reduce revenues by causing the ARLP Partnership to reduce its production or by impairing its ability to supply coal to its customers. Transportation costs represent a significant portion of the total cost of coal for the ARLP Partnership’s customers and, as a result, the cost of transportation is a critical factor in a customer’s purchasing decision. Increases in transportation costs could make coal a less competitive source of energy or could make the ARLP Partnership’s coal production less competitive than coal produced from other sources. Conversely, significant decreases in transportation costs could result in increased competition from coal producers in other parts of the country. For instance, difficulty in coordinating the many eastern coal loading facilities, the large number of small shipments, the steeper average grades of the terrain and a more unionized workforce are all issues that combine to make coal shipments originating in the eastern United States inherently more expensive on a per-mile basis than coal shipments originating in the western United States. Historically, high coal transportation rates from the western coal producing areas into certain eastern markets limited the use of western coal in those markets. Lower or higher rail rates from the western coal producing areas to markets served by eastern U.S. coal producers have created major competitive challenges, as well as opportunities, for eastern coal producers. In the event of lower transportation costs, the increased competition could have a material adverse effect on the ARLP Partnership’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of the ARLP Partnership’s mines depend on a single transportation carrier or a single mode of transportation. Disruption of any of these transportation services due to weather-related problems, flooding, drought, accidents, mechanical difficulties, strikes, lockouts, bottlenecks, and other events could temporarily impair the ARLP Partnership’s ability to supply coal to its customers. The ARLP Partnership’s transportation providers may face difficulties in the future that may impair its ability to supply coal to its customers, resulting in decreased revenues. If there are disruptions of the transportation services provided by the ARLP Partnership’s primary rail or barge carriers that transport its coal and the ARLP Partnership is unable to find alternative transportation providers to ship its coal, the ARLP Partnership’s business could be adversely affected. In recent years, the states of Kentucky and West Virginia have increased enforcement of weight limits on coal trucks on their public roads. It is possible that all states in which the ARLP Partnership’s coal is transported by truck may modify their laws to limit truck weight limits. Such legislation and enforcement efforts could result in shipment delays and increased costs. An increase in transportation costs could have an adverse effect on the ARLP Partnership’s ability to increase or to maintain production and could adversely affect revenues. Mine expansions and acquisitions involve a number of risks, any of which could cause us not to realize the anticipated benefits. Since ARLP’s formation and the acquisition of its predecessor in August 1999, the ARLP Partnership has expanded its operations by adding and developing mines and coal reserves in existing, adjacent and neighboring properties. The ARLP Partnership continually seeks to expand its operations and coal reserves. If the ARLP Partnership is unable to successfully integrate the companies, businesses or properties it acquires through such expansion, the ARLP Partnership’s profitability may decline and it could experience a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, or results of operations. 31 Table of Contents Expansion and acquisition transactions involve various inherent risks, including: • uncertainties in assessing the value, strengths, and potential profitability of, and identifying the extent of all weaknesses, risks, contingent and other liabilities (including environmental or mine safety liabilities) of, expansion and acquisition opportunities; • the ability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies anticipated to result from an expansion or an acquisition; • problems that could arise from the integration of the new operations; and • unanticipated changes in business, industry or general economic conditions that affect the assumptions underlying the ARLP Partnership’s rationale for pursuing the expansion or acquisition opportunity. Any one or more of these factors could cause the ARLP Partnership not to realize the benefits anticipated to result from an expansion or acquisition. Any expansion or acquisition opportunities the ARLP Partnership pursues could materially affect its liquidity and capital resources and may require the ARLP Partnership to incur indebtedness, seek equity capital or both. In addition, future expansions or acquisitions could result in the ARLP Partnership assuming more long-term liabilities relative to the value of the acquired assets than the ARLP Partnership has assumed in its previous expansions and/or acquisitions. The ARLP Partnership may not be able to successfully grow through future acquisitions. Historically, a portion of the ARLP Partnership’s growth and operating results have been from acquisitions. The ARLP Partnership’s future growth could be limited if it is unable to continue to make acquisitions, or if the ARLP Partnership is unable to successfully integrate the companies, businesses or properties it acquires. The ARLP Partnership may not be successful in consummating any acquisitions and the consequences of undertaking these acquisitions are unknown. Moreover, any acquisition could be dilutive to earnings and distributions to unitholders and any additional debt incurred to finance an acquisition could affect the ARLP Partnership’s ability to make distributions to unitholders. The ARLP Partnership’s ability to make acquisitions in the future could be limited by restrictions under its existing or future debt agreements, competition from other coal companies for attractive properties or the lack of suitable acquisition candidates. The unavailability of an adequate supply of coal reserves that can be mined at competitive costs could cause the ARLP Partnership’s profitability to decline. The ARLP Partnership’s profitability depends substantially on its ability to mine coal reserves that have the geological characteristics that enable them to be mined at competitive costs and to meet the quality needed by its customers. Because the ARLP Partnership’s reserves decline as it mines coal, its future success and growth depend, in part, upon its ability to acquire additional coal reserves that are economically recoverable. Replacement reserves may not be available when required or, if available, may not be capable of being mined at costs comparable to those of the depleting mines. The ARLP Partnership may not be able to accurately assess the geological characteristics of any reserves that it acquires, which may adversely affect its profitability and financial condition. Exhaustion of reserves at particular mines also may have an adverse effect on the ARLP Partnership’s operating results that is disproportionate to the percentage of overall production represented by such mines. The ARLP Partnership’s ability to obtain other reserves in the future could be limited by restrictions under its existing or future debt agreements, competition from other coal companies for attractive properties, the lack of suitable acquisition candidates or the inability to acquire coal properties on commercially reasonable terms. The ARLP Partnership’s business depends, in part, upon its ability to find, develop or acquire additional coal reserves that it can recover economically. The ARLP Partnership’s existing reserves will decline as they are depleted. The ARLP Partnership’s planned development projects and acquisition activities may not increase its reserves significantly and the ARLP Partnership may not have continued success expanding existing and developing additional mines. The ARLP Partnership believes that there are substantial reserves on certain adjacent or neighboring properties that are unleased and otherwise available. However, the ARLP Partnership may not be able to negotiate leases with the landowners on acceptable terms. An inability to expand the ARLP Partnership’s operations into adjacent or neighboring reserves under this strategy could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations. 32 Table of Contents The estimates of the ARLP Partnership’s coal reserves may prove inaccurate, and you should not place undue reliance on these estimates. The estimates of the ARLP Partnership’s coal reserves may vary substantially from actual amounts of coal it is able to economically recover. The reserve data set forth in “Item 2. Properties” represent the ARLP Partnership’s engineering estimates. All of the reserves presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitute proven and probable reserves. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of reserves, including many factors beyond the ARLP Partnership’s control. Estimates of coal reserves necessarily depend upon a number of variables and assumptions, any one of which may vary considerably from actual results. These factors and assumptions relate to: • geological and mining conditions, which may not be fully identified by available exploration data and/or differ from the ARLP Partnership’s experiences in areas where it currently mines; • the percentage of coal in the ground ultimately recoverable; • historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas; • the assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies; and • assumptions concerning future coal prices, operating costs, capital expenditures, severance and excise taxes and development and reclamation costs. For these reasons, estimates of the recoverable quantities of coal attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of future net cash flows expected from these properties as prepared by different engineers, or by the same engineers at different times, may vary substantially. Actual production, revenue and expenditures with respect to the ARLP Partnership’s reserves will likely vary from estimates, and these variations may be material. As a result, you should not place undue reliance on the coal reserve data included herein. Mining in certain areas in which the ARLP Partnership operates is more difficult and involves more regulatory constraints than mining in other areas of the United States, which could affect the mining operations and cost structures of these areas. The geological characteristics of some of the ARLP Partnership’s coal reserves, such as depth of overburden and coal seam thickness, make them difficult and costly to mine. As mines become depleted, replacement reserves may not be available when required or, if available, may not be capable of being mined at costs comparable to those characteristic of the depleting mines. In addition, permitting, licensing and other environmental and regulatory requirements associated with certain of the ARLP Partnership’s mining operations are more costly and time-consuming to satisfy. These factors could materially adversely affect the mining operations and cost structures of, and the ARLP Partnership’s customers’ ability to use coal produced by, its mines. Unexpected increases in raw material costs could significantly impair the ARLP Partnership’s operating profitability. The ARLP Partnership’s coal mining operations continue to be affected by commodity prices. The ARLP Partnership uses significant amounts of steel, petroleum products and other raw materials in various pieces of mining equipment, supplies and materials, including the roof bolts required by the room and pillar method of mining. Steel prices have risen significantly in recent years, and historically, the prices of scrap steel, natural gas and coking coal consumed in the production of iron and steel have fluctuated. In 2007, the ARLP Partnership continued to experience increases in the cost of materials and supplies, particularly consumables such as steel, copper and power. There may be acts of nature or terrorist attacks or threats that could also increase the costs of raw materials. If the price of steel, petroleum products or other raw materials increase, the ARLP Partnership’s operational expenses will increase and could have a significant negative impact on its profitability. Cash distributions are not guaranteed and may fluctuate with the ARLP Partnership’s performance. In addition, the ARLP Partnership’s managing general partner’s discretion in establishing financial reserves may negatively impact the AHGP Partnership’s receipt of cash distributions. Distributions on ARLP’s common units depend on the amount of cash generated by the ARLP Partnership’s operations, which fluctuates from quarter to quarter. Therefore, the current quarterly distribution or any distribution may not be paid each quarter. The actual amount of cash that is available to be distributed each quarter will depend upon numerous factors, some of which are beyond the ARLP Partnership’s control and the control of MGP. 33 Table of Contents ARLP’s partnership agreement requires its managing general partner to deduct from operating surplus cash reserves that in its reasonable discretion are necessary for the proper conduct of the ARLP Partnership’s business, to comply with applicable law or agreements to which ARLP is a party or to provide funds for future distributions to ARLP’s partners. These cash reserves will affect the amount of cash available for distribution to ARLP’s unitholders, including us. The ARLP Partnership’s indebtedness may limit its ability to borrow additional funds, make distributions to unitholders or capitalize on business opportunities. The ARLP Partnership has long-term indebtedness, consisting of its outstanding 8.31% senior unsecured notes and its revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2007, the ARLP Partnership’s total indebtedness outstanding was $154.0 million. The ARLP Partnership’s leverage may: • adversely affect its ability to finance future operations and capital needs; • limit its ability to pursue acquisitions and other business opportunities; • make its results of operations more susceptible to adverse economic or operating conditions; and • make it more difficult to self-insure for its workers’ compensation obligations. In addition, the ARLP Partnership has unused borrowing capacity under its revolving credit facility. Future borrowings, under the ARLP Partnership’s credit facilities or otherwise, could result in a significant increase in its leverage. The ARLP Partnership’s payments of principal and interest on any indebtedness will reduce the cash available for distribution on its units. The ARLP Partnership will be prohibited from making cash distributions: • during an event of default under any of its indebtedness; or • if either before or after such distribution, it fails to meet a coverage test based on the ratio of its consolidated debt to its consolidated cash flow. Various limitations in the ARLP Partnership’s debt agreements may reduce its ability to incur additional indebtedness, to engage in some transactions and to capitalize on business opportunities. Any subsequent refinancing of the ARLP Partnership’s current indebtedness or any new indebtedness could have similar or greater restrictions. Federal and state laws require bonds to secure the ARLP Partnership’s obligations related to statutory reclamation requirements and workers’ compensation and black lung benefits. The ARLP Partnership’s inability to acquire or failure to maintain surety bonds that are required by state and federal law would have a material adverse effect on the ARLP Partnership. Federal and state laws require the ARLP Partnership to place and maintain bonds to secure its obligations to repair and return property to its approximate original state after it has been mined (often referred to as “reclaim” or “reclamation”), to pay federal and state workers’ compensation and pneumoconiosis, or black lung, benefits and to satisfy other miscellaneous obligations. These bonds provide assurance that the ARLP Partnership will perform its statutorily required obligations and are referred to as “surety” bonds. These bonds are typically renewable on a yearly basis. The failure to maintain or the inability to acquire sufficient surety bonds, as required by state and federal laws, could subject the ARLP Partnership to fines and penalties and result in the loss of its mining permits. Such failure could result from a variety of factors, including: • lack of availability, higher expense or unreasonable terms of new surety bonds; • the ability of current and future surety bond issuers to increase required collateral, or limitations on availability of collateral for surety bond issuers due to the terms of the ARLP Partnership’s credit agreements; and • the exercise by third-party surety bond holders of their rights to refuse to renew the surety. The ARLP Partnership has outstanding surety bonds with third parties for reclamation expenses, federal and state workers’ compensation obligations and other miscellaneous obligations. The ARLP Partnership may have difficulty maintaining its surety bonds for mine reclamation as well as workers’ compensation and black lung benefits. The ARLP Partnership’s inability to acquire or failure to maintain these bonds would have a material adverse effect on the ARLP Partnership. 34 Table of Contents The ARLP Partnership’s mining operations are subject to extensive and costly laws and regulations, and such current and future laws and regulations could increase current operating costs or limit the ARLP Partnership’s ability to produce coal. The ARLP Partnership is subject to numerous and comprehensive federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting the coal mining industry, including laws and regulations pertaining to employee health and safety, permitting and licensing requirements, air quality standards, water pollution, plant and wildlife protection, reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining is completed, the discharge or release of materials into the environment, surface subsidence from underground mining and the effects that mining has on groundwater quality and availability. Certain of these laws and regulations may impose joint and several strict liability without regard to fault or legality of the original conduct. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial liabilities, and the issuance of injunctions limiting or prohibiting the performance of operations. Complying with these laws and regulations may be costly and time consuming and may delay commencement or continuation of exploration or production operations. The possibility exists that new laws or regulations (or judicial interpretations or more stringent enforcement of existing laws and regulations) may be adopted or that judicial interpretations or more stringent enforcement of existing laws and regulations may occur, in the future that could materially affect the ARLP Partnership’s mining operations, cash flow, and profitability, either through direct impacts such as new requirements impacting its existing mining operations, or indirect impacts such as new laws and regulations that discourage or limit its customers’ use of coal. As a result of recent mining accidents that caused fatalities in West Virginia and Kentucky, Congress and several state legislatures (including those in West Virginia, Illinois and Kentucky) have passed new laws addressing mine safety practices and imposing stringent new mine safety and accident reporting requirements and increased civil and criminal penalties for violations of mine safety laws. Implementing and complying with these new laws and regulations has increased and will continue to increase the ARLP Partnership’s operating expense and continue to have an adverse effect on its results of operation and financial position. For more information, please read “Item 1. Business – Regulation and Laws – Mine Health and Safety Laws.” Some of the ARLP Partnership’s operating subsidiaries lease a portion of the surface properties upon which their mining facilities are located. The ARLP Partnership’s operating subsidiaries do not, in all instances, own all of the surface properties upon which their mining facilities have been constructed. Certain of the operating companies have constructed and now operate all or some portion of their facilities on properties owned by unrelated third-parties with whom the applicable company has entered into a long-term lease. The ARLP Partnership has no reason to believe that there exists any risk of loss of these leasehold rights given the terms and provisions of the subject leases and the nature and identity of the third-party lessors; however, in the unlikely event of any loss of these leasehold rights, operations could be disrupted or otherwise adversely impacted as a result of increased costs associated with retaining the necessary land use. Tax Risks to Our Common Unitholders If we or ARLP were to become subject to entity-level taxation for federal or state tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax benefit of an investment in our units depends largely on AHGP being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) on this matter. The value of our investment in ARLP depends largely on ARLP being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. Despite the fact that we and ARLP are limited partnerships under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ARLP’s or ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. Although we do not believe based upon ARLP’s current operations that we or ARLP would be so treated, a change in ARLP’s business or our business (or a change in current law) could cause us or ARLP to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us or ARLP to taxation as an entity. 35 Table of Contents If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35% and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to you would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to you. Because taxes would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. Thus, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in our anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to you, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our units. If ARLP were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, it would pay federal income tax on its taxable income at the corporate tax rate and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to us would generally be taxable to you as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deduction or credits would flow through to us. As a result, there would be a material reduction in our anticipated cash flow, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our units. Current law may change, causing us or ARLP to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subjecting us or ARLP to entity level taxation. At the state level, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. If any state were to impose a tax upon us or ARLP as an entity, the cash available for distribution to you would be reduced. ARLP’s partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects ARLP to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects ARLP to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on ARLP. Likewise, our cash distributions to you will be reduced if we or ARLP is subjected to any form of such entity-level taxation. The tax treatment of our structure is subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The U.S. federal income tax treatment of unitholders depends in some instances on determinations of fact and interpretations of complex provisions of U.S. federal income tax law. You should be aware that the U.S. federal income tax rules are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the IRS, and the U.S. Treasury Department, frequently resulting in revised interpretations of established concepts, statutory changes, revisions to Treasury Regulations and other modifications and interpretations. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the exception for us to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes that is not taxable as a corporation (referred to as the “Qualifying Income Exception”), affect or cause us to change our business activities, affect the tax considerations of an investment in us, change the character or treatment of portions of our income and adversely affect an investment in our Common Units. For example, in response to certain recent developments, members of Congress are considering substantive changes to the definition of qualifying income under Internal Revenue Code section 7704(d). It is possible that these efforts could result in changes to the existing U.S. federal tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships, including us. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. If the IRS were to contest the federal income tax positions we take, it may adversely impact the market for our common units or ARLP common units, and the costs of any such contest would reduce cash available for distribution to ARLP and our unitholders. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions that we or ARLP take, even positions taken with the advice of counsel. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we or ARLP take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we or ARLP take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units or ARLP’s common units and the prices at which they trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne by ARLP and therefore indirectly by us, as a unitholder and as the owner of the general partner of ARLP. Moreover, the costs of any contest between us and the IRS will result in a reduction in cash available for distribution to our unitholders and thus will be borne indirectly by our unitholders. 36 Table of Contents Even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us, you will be required to pay taxes on your share of our taxable income. You will be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on your share of our taxable income, whether or not you receive cash distributions from us. You may not receive cash distributions from us equal to your share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that result from your share of our taxable income. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our units could be different than expected. If you sell your units, you will recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and your tax basis in those units. Because distributions in excess of your allocable share of our net taxable income decrease your tax basis in your units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units you sell will, in effect, become taxable income to you if you sell such units at a price greater than your tax basis therein, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income to you due to potential recapture items, including depreciation and depletion recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our non-recourse liabilities, if you sell your units, you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons owning our units face unique tax issues that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts (known as “IRAs”) and non-U.S. persons, raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our common units. We treat each purchaser of our units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of units, we adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from your sale of units and could have a negative impact on the value of our units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units 37 Table of Contents could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and the unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. When we or ARLP issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, ARLP determines the fair market value of its assets and allocates any unrealized gain or loss attributable to such assets to the capital accounts of ARLP’s unitholders and us. Although ARLP may from time to time consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, including the valuation of its assets, ARLP makes many of the fair market value estimates of its assets itself using a methodology based on the market value of its common units as a means to measure the fair market value of its assets. ARLP’s methodology may be viewed as understating the value of ARLP’s assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain ARLP unitholders and us, which may be unfavorable to such ARLP unitholders. Moreover, under our current valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of our common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to ARLP’s tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to ARLP’s intangible assets. The IRS may challenge ARLP’s valuation methods, or our or ARLP’s allocation of Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to ARLP’s tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between us and certain of ARLP’s unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests within a twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated our partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders could receive two Schedules K-1) for one fiscal year and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. A termination does not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. You will likely be subject to state and local taxes and income tax return filing requirements in jurisdictions where you do not live as a result of investing in our units. In addition to federal income taxes, you will likely be subject to other taxes, such as state and local income taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property. You will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, you may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We may own property or conduct business in other states in the future. It is your responsibility to file all federal, state and local tax returns. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 38 Table of Contents 