Item 1A: Risk Factors RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Due in part to the highly cyclical nature of the railcar industry, we have incurred substantial operating losses in the past and may experience declines in revenue and substantial operating losses in the future. The North American railcar market has been, and we expect it to continue to be highly cyclical. For example, over the past six months, we have experienced a decrease in demand and an increase in pricing pressures in the hopper railcar market. We cannot assure you that these conditions will improve soon, if at all, or that they will not affect our 12 Table of Contents other railcar product offerings. Downturns in part or all of the railcar manufacturing industry could occur in the future and could result in decreased demand for our products and services. Thus, future demand for our railcars may not match or exceed recently achieved levels. An economic downturn could result in cancellation of railcar orders, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to convert our railcar backlog into revenues. In addition, an economic downturn in the United States could result in lower sales volumes, lower prices for railcars and a loss of profits for us. A substantial number of the end users of our railcars acquire railcars through leasing arrangements with our leasing company customers. Economic conditions that result in higher interest rates would increase the cost of new leasing arrangements, which could cause our leasing company customers to purchase fewer railcars. A reduction in the number of railcars purchased by our leasing company customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend upon a small number of customers that represent a large percentage of our revenues. The loss of any single customer, or a reduction in sales to any such customer, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Railcars are typically sold pursuant to large, periodic orders and, therefore, a limited number of customers typically represent a significant percentage of our railcar sales in any given year. Our top ten customers based on consolidated revenues represented, in the aggregate, approximately 87.9%, 87.1% and 84.8% of our total consolidated revenues in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Moreover, our top three customers based on revenues represented, in the aggregate, approximately 80.1%, 59.9% and 44.9% of our total consolidated revenues in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. In 2007, sales to each of these top three customers represented approximately 52.0%, 22.4% and 5.7% of our total consolidated revenues, respectively. In addition, one of our customers accounted for 48.2% of our backlog as of December 31, 2007. The loss of any significant portion of our sales to any major customer, the loss of a single major customer or a material adverse change in the financial condition of any one of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and financial results. The level of our reported railcar backlog may not necessarily indicate what our future revenues will be and our actual revenues may fall short of the estimated revenue value attributed to our railcar backlog. We define backlog as the number of railcars, and the revenue value in dollars attributed to these railcars, to which our customers have committed in writing to purchase from us that have not yet been recognized as revenues. Our competitors may not define railcar backlog in the same manner as we do, which could make comparisons of our railcar backlog with theirs misleading. Our reported railcar backlog may not be converted into revenues in any particular period, if at all, and the actual revenues from such sales may not equal our reported estimates of railcar backlog value. Certain railcar orders included in our backlog are subject to our fulfillment of certain competitive conditions, including pricing conditions. If we do not meet these competitive conditions, those orders could be cancelled. Furthermore, any contract included in our reported railcar backlog that actually generates revenues may not be profitable. We operate in a highly competitive industry and we may be unable to compete successfully, which would materially adversely affect our results of operations. We face intense competition in all of our markets. In each of our hopper and tank railcar manufacturing businesses, we have two principal competitors and other competitors are expanding their capabilities into our focused railcar markets. Any of these competitors may, from time to time, have greater resources than we do. Some railcar manufacturers produce railcars primarily for use in their own railcar leasing operations, competing directly with leasing companies, some of which are our largest customers. Our current competitors may increase their participation, or new competitors may enter into the railcar markets in which we compete. Strong competition within the industry could limit our ability to increase prices or obtain better margins on our railcars. If we produce any types of railcars other than what we currently produce, we will be competing with other manufacturers that may have more experience with that railcar type. 13 Table of Contents New competitors, or alliances among existing competitors, may emerge in the railcar components industry and rapidly gain market share. We compete with numerous companies in our railcar fleet management and railcar repair services business, ranging from companies with greater resources than we have to small, local companies. Technological innovation by any of our existing competitors, or new competitors entering any of the markets in which we do business, could put us at a competitive disadvantage and could cause us to lose market share. Increased competition for the sales of our railcars, our fleet management and repair services and our railcar components could result in price reductions, reduced margins and loss of market share, which could materially adversely affect our prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations. The cost of the raw materials and components that we use to manufacture railcars, particularly steel, are high and subject to escalation and surcharges and could increase. Any increase in these costs or delivery delays of these raw materials may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The cost of steel and all other materials, including scrap metal, used in the production of our railcars, represents approximately 80% to 85% of our manufacturing costs. We have provisions in many of our current railcar manufacturing contracts that allow us to pass on to our customers, price fluctuations in and surcharges related to certain raw materials, including steel, as well as certain components. We may not be able to pass on price increases to our customers in the future, which could adversely affect our operating margins and cash flows. Any fluctuations in the price or availability of steel, or any other material or component used in the production of our railcars, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Such price increases could reduce demand for our railcars. As customers may not accept contracts with price adjustment clauses in the future, we may lose railcar orders or may be required to enter into contracts with fixed pricing provisions or other less favorable contract terms, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of our raw material or component suppliers were unable to continue their businesses or were to seek bankruptcy relief, the availability or price of the materials we use could be adversely affected. Deliveries of our raw materials and components may also fluctuate depending on various factors including supply and demand for the raw material or component, or governmental regulation relating to the raw material or component, including regulation relating to importation. Fluctuations in the supply of components and raw materials we use in manufacturing railcars, which are often only available from a limited number of suppliers, could cause production delays or reductions in the number of railcars we manufacture, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our railcar manufacturing business depends on the adequate supply of numerous railcar components, such as railcar wheels, brakes, tank railcar heads, sideframes, axles, bearings, yokes, bolsters and other heavy castings. Some of these components are only available from a limited number of domestic suppliers. Strong demand can cause industry-wide shortages of many critical components as reliable suppliers could reach capacity production levels. Supply constraints in our industry are exacerbated because, although multiple suppliers may produce certain components, railcar manufacturing regulations and the physical capabilities of manufacturing facilities restrict the types and sizes of components and raw materials that manufacturers may use. In addition, we do not carry significant inventories of certain components and procure many of our components on an as needed basis. In the event that our suppliers of railcar components and raw materials were to stop or reduce the production of railcar components and raw materials that we use, or refuse to do business with us for any reason, our business would be disrupted. Our inability to obtain components and raw materials in required quantities or of acceptable quality could result in significant delays or reductions in railcar shipments and could materially or adversely affect our operating results. If any of our significant suppliers of railcar components were to shut down operations, our business and financial results could be affected as we may incur substantial delays and significant expense in finding alternative sources, the quality and reliability of alternative sources may not be the same and these alternative sources may charge significantly higher prices. 14 Table of Contents Equipment failures, delays in deliveries or extensive damage to our facilities, particularly our railcar manufacturing complexes in Paragould or Marmaduke, Arkansas, or to ACF’s tank railcar manufacturing facility, could lead to production or service curtailments or shutdowns. An interruption in manufacturing capabilities at our Paragould or Marmaduke complexes, at ACF’s tank railcar manufacturing facility where ACF produces tank railcars for us, or at any of our component manufacturing facilities, whether as a result of equipment failure or any other reason, could reduce, prevent or delay production of our railcars or railcar and industrial components, which could alter the scheduled delivery dates to our customers and affect our production schedule. This could result in the termination of orders, the loss of future sales and a negative impact to our reputation with our customers and in the railcar industry, all of which would materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. All of our manufacturing and service facilities, as well as ACF’s facility, are subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events, such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, tornados or weather conditions. We may experience plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of equipment failures, loss of power, gray outs, delays in deliveries, or extensive damage to any of our facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. The variable purchase patterns of our railcar customers and the timing of completion, delivery and acceptance of customer orders may cause our revenues and income from operations to vary substantially each quarter, which could result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly results. Railcar sales comprised approximately 83.5%, 83.1% and 81.5% of our total consolidated revenue in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Our results of operations in any particular quarterly period may be significantly affected by the number and type of railcars manufactured and delivered in any given quarterly period, which is impacted by customer needs that vary greatly year to year, as discussed above. The delivery and acceptance of our railcars determines when we record the revenues associated with our railcar sales and, as a result, are likely to cause fluctuations in our quarterly results. As a result of these fluctuations, we believe that comparisons of our sales and operating results between quarterly periods within the same fiscal year and between quarterly periods within different fiscal years may not be meaningful and, as such, these comparisons should not be relied upon as indicators of our future performance. Our failure to complete our capital expenditure projects, on time and within budget, or the failure of these projects, once constructed, to operate as anticipated, could materially adversely affect our ability to fulfill our existing railcar customer commitments and our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our construction plans are subject to a number of risks and contingencies over which we may have little control and which may adversely affect the cost and timing of the completion of those projects, or the capacity or efficiencies of those projects once constructed. If our capital expenditure projects do not achieve the results anticipated, we may not be able to satisfy our operational goals and contractual commitments on a timely basis, if at all. Any significant delay in deliveries to our customers as a result of the failure of our capital projects could result in the termination of orders or the termination of long-term purchase contracts and incurring additional costs under those orders or contracts, which could lead to lost future sales. If we are not able to complete the construction of any of our capital expenditure projects on time or within budget, or if those projects do not achieve the capacity or efficiencies anticipated, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our efforts to manage overhead and manage production slow downs may result in the loss of key employees. As a result of less demand and increased competition for some of our hopper railcar products, we have implemented production slow downs and are managing our overhead costs in order to improve our manufacturing efficiencies. We may need to increase these efforts and such production slow downs and decreases to overhead costs may result in the loss of skilled, trained, qualified production and management employees, upon which our business substantially depends. If we do lose the services of such key employees due to production slow downs or otherwise, we may not be able to rehire such personnel, and suitable new employees may not be available, if and when our production needs later increase. 15 Table of Contents We may pursue acquisitions or joint ventures that involve inherent risks, any of which may cause us not to realize anticipated benefits, and we may have difficulty integrating the operations of any companies that we acquire, which may adversely affect our results of operations. We may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition or joint venture opportunities or complete any particular acquisition, combination, joint venture or other transaction on acceptable terms. Our identification of suitable acquisition candidates and joint venture opportunities and the integration of acquired business operations involves risks inherent in assessing the values, strengths, weaknesses, risks and profitability of these opportunities. This includes their effects on our business, diversion of our management’s attention and risks associated with unanticipated problems or unforeseen liabilities, and may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be used for the ongoing development of our business. The difficulties of integration may be increased by the necessity of coordinating geographically dispersed organizations, integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds and combining different corporate cultures. These difficulties could be further increased to the extent we pursue acquisition or joint venture opportunities internationally, where we do not have significant experience. In addition, we may not be effective in retaining key employees or customers of the combined businesses. We may face integration issues pertaining to the internal controls and operations functions of the acquired companies and we also may not realize cost efficiencies or synergies that we anticipated when selecting our acquisition candidates. We may experience managerial or other conflicts with our joint venture partners. Any of these items could adversely affect our results of operations. Our failure to identify suitable acquisition or joint venture opportunities may restrict our ability to grow our business. If we are successful in pursuing future acquisitions or joint ventures, we may be required to expend significant funds, incur additional debt or issue additional securities, which may materially adversely affect our results of operations and be dilutive to our stockholders. If we spend significant funds or incur additional debt, our ability to obtain financing for working capital or other purposes could decline and we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and competitive pressures. If we lose any of our executive officers or key employees, our operations and ability to manage the day-to-day aspects of our business may be materially adversely affected. Our future performance will substantially depend on our ability to retain and motivate our executive officers and key employees, both individually and as a group. If we lose any of our executive officers or key employees, which have many years of experience with our company and within the railcar industry and other manufacturing industries, or are unable to recruit qualified personnel, our ability to manage the day-to-day aspects of our business may be materially adversely affected. The loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, who also have strong personal ties with customers and suppliers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not currently maintain “key person” life insurance. If we face labor shortages or increased labor costs, our growth and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Due to the competitive nature of the labor markets in which we operate and the cyclical nature of the railcar industry, the resulting type of employment cycle increases our risk of not being able to retain, recruit and train the personnel we require in our railcar manufacturing and other businesses, particularly in periods of economic expansion. Our inability to recruit, retain and train adequate numbers of qualified personnel on a timely basis could materially adversely affect our ability to operate our businesses, our financial condition and our results of operations. Rapid growth could strain our operations and require us to incur costs to upgrade our infrastructure. Our potential future growth could place a significant strain on our management, operations and financial systems and also on our ability to retain employees. Our future operating results will depend in part on our ability to continue to implement and improve our operating and financial controls and management information systems. If we fail to 16 Table of Contents manage our growth effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Uncertainty surrounding acceptance of our new railcar offerings by our customers, and costs associated with those new offerings, could materially adversely affect our business. Our strategy depends in part on our continued development and sale of new railcar designs to expand or maintain our market share in our current railcar markets. New or modified railcar designs may require customers to alter their existing business methods or displace existing equipment in which these customers may have a substantial capital investment. Additionally, many railcar purchasers with established railcar fleets prefer to maintain a standardized fleet of railcars and are generally resistant to railcar design changes. Therefore, any new or modified railcar designs that we develop may not gain widespread acceptance in the marketplace and any such products may not be able to compete successfully with existing railcar designs or new railcar designs that may be introduced by our competitors. Furthermore, we may experience significant initial costs of production of new railcar product lines related to training, labor and operating inefficiencies. To the extent that the total costs of production significantly exceed our anticipated costs of production, we may incur a loss on our sale of new railcar product lines. Our reliance on the railroads to provide a means of transportation for our railcars may cause our revenues and income from operations to vary each quarter, which could result in fluctuations in our quarterly results. The delivery or inability to deliver our railcars determines when we record the revenues associated with our railcar sales and, as a result, will cause fluctuations in our quarterly results. The railroads could potentially go on strike or have other service interruptions, which could ultimately create a logjam and potentially cause us to slow down or halt our delivery and production schedules, which could have a materially adverse affect on our financial results. We are subject to a variety of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and the cost of complying, or our failure to comply, with such requirements may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations relating to the release or discharge of materials into the environment, the management, use, processing, handling, storage, transport or disposal of hazardous materials, or otherwise relating to the protection of public and employee health, safety and the environment. These laws and regulations expose us to liability for the environmental condition of our current or formerly owned or operated facilities, and also may expose us to liability for the conduct of others or for our actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time these actions were taken. They also may expose us to liability for claims of personal injury or property damage related to alleged exposure to hazardous or toxic materials. Despite our intention to be in compliance, we cannot guarantee that we will at all times be in compliance with all such requirements. The cost of complying with these requirements may also increase substantially in future years. If we violate or fail to comply with these requirements, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. In addition, these requirements are complex, change frequently and may become more stringent over time, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our failure to maintain and comply with environmental permits that we are required to maintain could result in fines or penalties or other sanctions and have a material adverse effect on our operations or results. Future events, such as new environmental regulations or changes in or modified interpretations of existing laws and regulations or enforcement policies, newly discovered information or further investigation or evaluation of the potential health hazards of products or business activities, may give rise to additional compliance and other costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and operations. In addition to environmental, health and safety laws, the transportation of commodities by railcar raises potential risks in the event of a derailment or other accident. Generally, liability under existing law in the United States for a derailment or other accident depends on the negligence of the party, such as the railroad, the shipper, or the manufacturer of the railcar or its components. However, for certain hazardous commodities being shipped, strict liability concepts may apply. 17 Table of Contents As a public company, we are required to comply with the reporting obligations of the Exchange Act and are required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we fail to comply with the reporting obligations of the Exchange Act and Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or if we fail to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting, our business, results of operations and financial condition, and investors’ confidence in us, could be materially adversely affected. As a public company, we are required to comply with the periodic reporting obligations of the Exchange Act, including preparing annual reports, quarterly reports and current reports. Our failure to prepare and disclose this information in a timely manner could subject us to penalties under federal securities laws, expose us to lawsuits and restrict our ability to access financing. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. Our failure to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act on a timely basis could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. Our joint ventures, including our Ohio Castings and Axis, LLC joint ventures, and our relationships with our partners in those joint ventures may not be successful, which could materially adversely affect our business. If either of our joint ventures generates significant losses, it could affect our financial results. If our joint venture, Axis, LLC, is unable to start up operations effectively and in a timely manner and incurs significant losses at the onset of operations, our financial results could be adversely impacted. We have financial guarantees associated with obligations of our joint ventures and if those joint ventures fail to honor those obligations for any reason, our obligation to satisfy those guarantees could materially adversely affect our financial position. Companies affiliated with Mr. Carl C. Icahn are important customers, suppliers and manufacturers. We manufacture railcars and railcar components and provide railcar services for companies affiliated with Mr. Carl C. Icahn, our principal beneficial stockholder and the chairman of our board of directors. To the extent our relationships with affiliates of Mr. Carl C. Icahn change due to the sale of his interest in us or otherwise, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Affiliates of Mr. Carl C. Icahn have accounted for approximately 22.4%, 10.7% and 10.8% of our consolidated revenues in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. This revenue is primarily attributable to our sale of railcars to ARL, a railcar leasing company owned by affiliates of Mr. Carl C. Icahn, which currently purchases all of its railcars from us, but is not required to do so in the future. We also purchase railcar and industrial components from ACF, another entity affiliated with Mr. Carl C. Icahn. ACF has supplied us with certain railcar components and those purchases have amounted to $46.9 million, $81.5 million and $76.4 million of our inventory purchases in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Currently, ACF is our sole supplier of important railcar components that we use in our manufacturing operations. These railcar components are manufactured and sold to us under a supply agreement that is terminable by ACF at the end of any contract year on six months prior notice. We cannot guarantee that we would be able to obtain alternative supplies of these railcar components on a timely basis and on comparable terms if we were no longer able to purchase these railcar components from ACF. ACF also manufactures certain of our tank railcar requirements pursuant to a manufacturing agreement we entered into in May 2007. If ACF is unable to manufacture these tank railcars up to our quality standards or on a timely basis, our railcar production and deliveries to our customers could be delayed. This could result in the termination of orders, the loss of future sales and a potential negative impact on our reputation with our customers and in the railcar industry, all of which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. If a sublease provided to us by ARL, an entity controlled by Mr. Carl C. Icahn, is terminated, we may need to find new headquarters space, which may require us to incur additional costs. 18 Table of Contents We currently sublease our headquarters office space in St. Charles, Missouri from ARL. The arrangement may be terminated by either party upon six months notice or by mutual agreement and, if it were terminated, we would be required to relocate our office headquarters. As this agreement was negotiated with ARL, an entity affiliated with us, the rates charged to us under this agreement may be lower than rates that may be charged by an unaffiliated third party for an office sublease. If this agreement is terminated, we many incur additional expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations. As a public company, we may have reduced access to resources of, and benefits provided by, entities affiliated with Mr. Carl C. Icahn. We believe that our relationship with entities affiliated with Mr. Carl C. Icahn have, in many cases, provided us with a competitive advantage in identifying opportunities for sales of our products and identifying and attracting partners for critical supply and buying arrangements. If we were unable to participate in these supply and buying group arrangements, our manufacturing costs could increase and our results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. We are involved in investigation and remediation activities relating to facilities previously owned by ACF, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations if significant liabilities relating to these activities arise and ACF is not able to honor the obligations. We have various investigations and cleanups of sites in process, but it is too early to be able to make a reasonable estimate, with any certainty, of the timing and extent of remedial actions that may be required, and the costs that would be involved in such remediation. Substantially all of the issues identified relate to the use of the properties prior to their transfer to us in 1994 by ACF and for which ACF has retained liability and agreed to indemnify us. However, if ACF fails to honor its obligations to us, we would be responsible for the cost of such remediation. The discovery of historic contamination or the release of substances into the environment at our current or formerly owned or operated facilities could require ACF or us in the future to incur investigative or remedial costs or other liabilities that could be material or that could interfere with the operation of our business. Any environmental liabilities that we may incur that are not covered by adequate insurance or indemnification will also increase our costs and have a negative impact on our profitability. Some of our railcar services and component manufacturing employees belong to labor unions and strikes or work stoppages by them or unions formed by some or all of our other employees in the future could adversely affect our operations. We are a party to collective bargaining agreements with labor unions at our Longview, Texas, North Kansas City, Missouri and our Milton, Pennsylvania repair facilities and at our Longview, Texas steel foundry and components manufacturing facility. As of December 31, 2007, the covered employees at these sites collectively represent approximately 12.9% of our total workforce. Disputes with regard to the terms of these agreements or our potential inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions in the future could result in, among other things, strikes, work stoppages or other slowdowns by the affected workers. We cannot guarantee that our relations with our railcar services workforce will remain positive. We cannot guarantee that union organizers will not be successful in future attempts to organize our railcar manufacturing employees or our other employees at some of our other facilities. If our workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, or other employees were to become unionized or the terms and conditions in future labor agreements were renegotiated, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations and higher ongoing labor costs. In addition, we could face higher labor costs in the future as a result of severance or other charges associated with layoffs, shutdowns or reductions in the size and scope of our operations. Changes in assumptions or investment performance of pension and other postretirement benefit plans that we sponsor could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are responsible for making funding contributions to pension plans and are liable for any unfunded liabilities that may exist should the plans be terminated. Under certain circumstances, such liability could be senior to our unsecured senior notes. Our liability and resulting costs for these plans may increase or decrease based upon a number of factors, including actuarial assumptions used, the discount rate used in calculating the present value of 19 Table of Contents future liabilities, and investment performance, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We also provide certain postretirement health care and life insurance benefits for certain of our salaried and hourly employees and retirees. Our postretirement benefit obligations and related expense with respect to these postretirement benefits also increase or decrease based on several factors, including changes in health care cost trend rates, and could similarly be materially adversely affected by adverse changes in these factors. Our manufacturer’s warranties expose us to potentially significant claims. We may be subject to significant warranty claims in the future relating to workmanship and materials. These types of warranty claims could result in costly product recalls, significant repair costs and damage to our reputation, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unresolved warranty claims could result in users of our products bringing legal actions against us. For example, we have been named as the defendant in a lawsuit in which the plaintiff claims we were responsible for the damage caused by allegedly defective railcars that were manufactured by us. The plaintiff alleges that failures in certain components caused the contents transported by these railcars to spill out of the railcars causing property damage, clean-up costs, monitoring costs, testing costs and other costs and damages. Our revolving credit facility, as amended, and our unsecured senior notes contain, and any additional financing we may obtain could contain, covenants that restrict our ability to engage in certain transactions and may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. Complying with the covenants under our revolving credit facility, as amended, and our unsecured senior notes may limit our management’s discretion by restricting our ability to: • incur additional debt; • redeem our capital stock; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; • pay dividends and make other distributions; • make investments and other restricted payments; and • create liens. Any additional financing we may obtain could contain similar or more restrictive covenants. Our ability to comply with any covenants may be affected by general economic conditions, political decisions, industry conditions and other events beyond our control. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with these covenants when and if they become applicable to us. Our failure to comply with these covenants should they become applicable to us, could result in an event of default, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. If there were an event of default under our revolving credit facility, as amended, or any other financing arrangement, and amounts were then outstanding thereunder, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately. We cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to fully repay amounts due under any of our financing arrangements if accelerated upon an event of default, or that we would be able to repay, refinance or restructure the payments under any such arrangements. Our substantial indebtedness, as a result of the offering of our outstanding unsecured senior notes, could adversely affect our operations and financial results and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under the notes. Our substantial indebtedness, consisting of our $275.0 million of unsecured senior notes, and our potential future liability under our revolving credit facility, as amended, could have important consequences to our investors. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the notes and other indebtedness; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; 20 Table of Contents • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate purposes or acquisitions. Failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could have a significant adverse effect on us. Despite our substantial indebtedness, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. Despite our restrictions under our revolving credit facility, as amended, and our indenture governing our unsecured senior notes, we may be able to incur future indebtedness, including secured indebtedness and this debt could be substantial. Any additional secured borrowings by us and any borrowings by our subsidiaries would be senior to the notes. If new debt is added to our or our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks that we or they now face could be magnified. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to service all of our obligations, including our obligations under our revolving credit facility and our the unsecured senior notes. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including the indebtedness incurred under our revolving credit facility, as amended, and the unsecured senior notes, and to fund planned capital expenditures, strategic transactions and expansion efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our business may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and there can be no assurance that future borrowings will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness as such indebtedness matures and to fund our other liquidity needs. If this is the case, we will need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, and cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including our revolving credit facility, as amended, and the unsecured senior notes, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We could have to adopt one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying planned expenses and capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring debt, or obtaining additional equity or debt financing. These financing strategies may not be affected on satisfactory terms, if at all. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness or obtain additional financing and/or to do so on commercially reasonable terms will depend on our financial condition at the time, restrictions in agreements governing our indebtedness, the indenture governing the notes, and other factors, including the condition of the financial markets and the railcar industry. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and additional borrowings, refinancings or proceeds of asset sales are not available to us, we may not have sufficient cash to enable us to meet all of our obligations, including payments on the exchange notes. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property and prevent its improper use by third parties, our ability to compete in the market may be harmed. Various patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws afford only limited protection and may not prevent our competitors from duplicating our products or gaining access to our proprietary information and technology. These means also may not permit us to gain or maintain a competitive advantage. Any of our patents may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful should one or more of our patents be challenged for any reason. If our patent claims are rendered invalid or unenforceable, or narrowed in scope, the patent coverage afforded our products could be impaired, which could significantly impede our ability to market our products, negatively affect our competitive position and materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Our pending or future patent applications held by us may not result in an issued patent and, if patents are issued to us, such patents may not provide meaningful protection against competitors or against competitive technologies. The United States federal courts may invalidate our patents or find them unenforceable. Competitors may also be able to design around our patents. Other parties may develop and obtain patent protection for more effective technologies, designs or methods. If these developments were to occur, it could have an adverse effect on our sales. If our intellectual property rights are not adequately protected, we may not be able to commercialize our technologies, products or services and our competitors could commercialize our technologies, which could result in a decrease in our sales and market share and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products could infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may lead to litigation that could itself be costly, could result in the payment of substantial damages or royalties, and could prevent us from using technology that is essential to our products. We cannot guarantee you that our products, manufacturing processes or other methods do not infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. Infringement and other intellectual property claims and proceedings brought against us, whether successful or not, could result in substantial costs and harm our reputation. Such claims and proceedings can also distract and divert management and key personnel from other tasks important to the success of our business. In addition, intellectual property litigation or claims could force us to do one or more of the following: • cease selling or using any of our products that incorporate the asserted intellectual property, which would adversely affect our revenue; • pay substantial damages for past use of the asserted intellectual property; • obtain a license from the holder of the asserted intellectual property, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; and • redesign or rename, in the case of trademark claims, our products to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may not be possible and could be costly and time-consuming if it is possible to do. In the event of an adverse determination in an intellectual property suit or proceeding, or our failure to license essential technology, our sales could be harmed and our costs could increase, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increasing insurance claims and expenses could lower profitability and increase business risk. Increased insurance premiums may further increase our insurance expense as coverages expire or cause us to raise our self-insured retention. If the number or severity of claims within our self-insured retention increases, we could suffer costs in excess of our reserves. An unusually large liability claim or a series of claims based on a failure repeated throughout our mass production process may exceed our insurance coverage or result in direct damages if we were unable or elected not to insure against certain hazards because of high premiums or other reasons. In addition, the availability of, and our ability to collect on, insurance coverage is often subject to factors beyond our control. Moreover, any accident or incident involving us, even if we are fully insured or not held to be liable, could negatively affect our reputation among customers and the public, thereby making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, and could materially adversely affect the cost and availability of insurance in the future. Our failure to comply with regulations imposed by federal and foreign agencies could negatively affect our financial results. New regulatory rulings and regulations from federal or foreign regulatory agencies may impact our financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to comply with the requirements and regulations of these agencies that impact our manufacturing, safety and other processes, we may face sanctions and penalties that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Further consolidation of the railroad industry may materially adversely affect our business. As railroad carriers are large purchasers of railcars and represent a significant portion of our historical customer base, a further consolidation of railroad carriers will generate proportionately greater buying power and operating efficiency for those customers. This may intensify competition among railcar manufacturers to retain customer relationships with the consolidated railroad carriers and cause our prices to decline, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Reductions in the availability of energy supplies or an increase in energy costs may increase our operating costs. Various factors including hostilities between the United States and any foreign power, or natural disasters could result in a real or perceived shortage of petroleum and/or natural gas, which could result in an increase in the cost of electricity and the energy sources we use to manufacture our railcars. Future limitations on the availability or consumption of petroleum products and/or an increase in energy costs, particularly electricity for plant operations, could have a materially adverse effect upon our business and results of operations. We may be required to reduce the value of our inventory, long-lived assets and/or goodwill, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to reduce inventory carrying values using the lower of cost or market approach in the future due to a decline in market conditions in the railcar business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Future events could cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist and that goodwill associated with our acquired businesses is impaired. Any resulting impairment loss related to reductions in the value of our long-lived assets or our goodwill could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The price of our common stock is subject to volatility. Various factors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially including general financial market changes, changes in governmental regulation, significant railcar industry announcements or developments, the introduction of new products or technologies by us or our competitors, and changes in other conditions or trends in our industry or in the markets of any of our significant customers. Other factors that could cause our stock’s price to fluctuate could be actual or anticipated variations in our or our competitors’ quarterly or annual financial results, financial results failing to meet expectations of analysts or investors, changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our future performance or of that of our competitors and the general health of our industry. Our stock price may decline due to sales of shares by Mr. Carl C. Icahn and other stockholders. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that these sales may occur, may adversely affect the price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities in the future. Of our outstanding shares of common stock, approximately 54% are beneficially owned by our principal beneficial stockholder and the Chairman of our Board of Directors, Mr. Carl C. Icahn. Certain stockholders are contractually entitled, subject to certain exceptions, to exercise their demand registration rights to register their shares under the Securities Act. If this right is exercised, holders of any of our common stock subject to these agreements will be entitled to participate in such registration. By exercising their registration rights, and selling a large number of shares, these holders could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Approximately 11.3 million shares of common stock are covered by such registration rights. Mr. Carl C. Icahn exerts significant influence over us and his interests may conflict with the interest of our other stockholders. 23 Table of Contents Mr. Carl C. Icahn controls approximately 54% of the voting power of our capital stock and is able to control or exert substantial influence over us, including the election of our directors, and controlling most matters requiring board or shareholder approval, including business strategies, mergers, business combinations, acquisitions or dispositions of significant assets, issuances of common stock, incurrence of debt or other financing, and the payment of dividends. The existence of a controlling stockholder may have the effect of making it difficult for, or may discourage or delay, a third party from seeking to acquire, a majority of our outstanding common stock, which may adversely affect the market price of the stock. Mr. Carl C. Icahn owns and controls and has an interest in a wide array of companies, some of which, such as ARL and ACF as described below, may compete directly or indirectly with us. As a result, his interests may not always be consistent with our interests or the interests of our other stockholders. For example, ARL, a railcar leasing company owned by Mr. Carl C. Icahn, competes directly with our other customers that are in the railcar leasing business and ACF, which supplies us with critical components, also provides components to our competitors. ACF also is manufacturing railcars for us. Mr. Carl C. Icahn and entities controlled by him may also pursue acquisitions or business opportunities that may be complementary to our business. Our certificate of incorporation allows Mr. Carl C. Icahn, entities controlled by him, and any director, officer, member, partner, stockholder or employee of Mr. Carl C. Icahn or entities controlled by him, to take advantage of such corporate opportunities without first presenting such opportunities to us, unless such opportunities are expressly offered to any such party solely in, and as a direct result of, his or her capacity as our director, officer or employee. As a result, corporate opportunities that may benefit us may not be available to us in a timely manner, or at all. To the extent that conflicts of interest may arise between us and Mr. Carl C. Icahn and his affiliates, those conflicts may be resolved in a manner adverse to us or to you or other holders of our securities. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASDAQ Global Market rules and therefore we are not subject to all of the NASDAQ Global Market corporate governance requirements. As we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of the NASDAQ Global Market, we have elected, as permitted by those rules, not to comply with certain governance requirements. For example, our board of directors does not have a majority of independent directors, our officers’ compensation is not determined by our independent directors, and director nominees are not selected or recommended by a majority of independent directors. As a result, we do not have a majority of independent directors and we do not have a nominating committee nor do we have a compensation committee consisting of independent members. Payments of cash dividends on our common stock may be made only at the discretion of our board of directors and may be restricted by Delaware law. Our revolving credit facility, as amended, and our senior unsecured notes, contain provisions that limit our ability to pay dividends. Our board of directors may, in its discretion, refuse to declare future dividends depending upon our operating results, strategic plans, capital requirements, financial condition, provisions of our borrowing arrangements and other factors our board of directors considers relevant. In addition, our revolving credit facility and our senior notes restrict our ability to declare and pay dividends on our capital stock. Furthermore, Delaware law imposes restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. Accordingly, we may not be able to pay dividends in any given amount in the future, or at all. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None 