D. Risk Factors The following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and our business in general. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Any of these risks may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and the trading price of our securities could decline. Risk Factors Relating to Our Company A renewed contraction or worsening of the global credit markets and economic conditions and the resulting volatility in the financial markets could have a material adverse impact on our ability to obtain sufficient funds to grow or effectively manage our growth. A principal focus of our strategy is to grow by expanding our business. Our future growth depends, in part, on our ability to obtain financing for our existing and new operations and business lines. In recent years, global financial markets have experienced extraordinary volatility following significant contraction, deleveraging and reduced liquidity in the global credit markets. In addition, a number of major financial institutions have experienced serious financial difficulties and, in some cases, have entered into bankruptcy proceedings or are subject to regulatory enforcement actions. These difficulties have been compounded by a general decline in the willingness by banks and other financial institutions to extend credit and may adversely affect the financial institutions that may provide us with credit to support our working capital requirements. In addition, these difficulties may impair the ability of our lenders to continue to perform under their financing obligations to us, which could negatively impact our ability to fund current and future obligations. These recent and developing economic factors may have a material adverse effect on our ability to expand our business. Further, as a result of the ongoing economic downturn in Greece resulting from the sovereign debt crisis and the related austerity measures implemented by the Greek government, our operations in Greece may be subjected to new regulations that may require us to incur new or additional compliance or other administrative costs and may require that we pay to the Greek government new taxes or other fees. Furthermore, the change in the Greek government and potential shift in its policies may undermine Greece's political and economic stability, which may adversely affect our operations located in Greece. We also face the risk that strikes, work stoppages, civil unrest and violence within Greece may disrupt our shoreside operations located in Greece. Our future growth depends on a number of additional factors, which also may be adversely affected in the current economic climate, including our ability to: · increase our fleet of bunkering vessels; · identify suitable markets for expansion; · consummate vessel acquisitions at attractive prices, which may not be possible if asset prices rise too quickly; · integrate acquired vessels, or other assets or businesses successfully with our existing operations; · hire, train and retain qualified personnel to manage and operate our growing business and fleet; · improve our operating, financial and accounting systems and controls; · maintain or improve our credit control procedures; · obtain required financing for our existing and new operations; 4 · obtain and maintain required governmental authorizations, licenses and permits for new and existing operations; · manage relationships with our customers and suppliers; · provide timely service at competitive prices; and · attract and retain customers. A deficiency in any of these factors may negatively impact our ability to generate cash flow, raise money or effectively manage our growth. In addition, competition from other companies could reduce our expansion or acquisition opportunities, cause us to lose business opportunities, competitive advantages or customers or cause us to pay higher or charge lower prices than we might otherwise pay or charge. Furthermore, competitive conditions in the markets that we may consider for future expansion may be more adverse to us than those in markets served by our existing service centers, and any new markets that we may service may be less profitable than our existing markets. We may not be in compliance with the covenants contained in our debt agreements. Certain of our credit facilities, which are secured by mortgages on our vessels or other assets, require us to maintain specified financial ratios, mainly to ensure that the market value of the mortgaged vessels under the applicable credit facility, determined in accordance with the terms of that facility, does not fall below a certain percentage of the outstanding amount of the loan, which we refer to as a security value. In addition, certain of our credit facilities require us to satisfy certain other financial covenants. In general, these financial covenants require us to maintain, among other things, (i) a minimum market value adjusted net worth or book net worth; (ii) a minimum current ratio; (iii) a minimum amount of liquidity and a minimum liquidity ratio; (iv) a maximum ratio of total liabilities to total assets; and (v) a minimum working capital. A violation of these loan covenants, among others, may constitute an event of default under our credit facilities, which, unless cured within the grace period set forth under the credit facility, if applicable, or waived or modified by our lenders, may provide our lenders with the right to, among other things, require us to post additional collateral, enhance our equity and liquidity, increase our interest payments, pay down our indebtedness to a level where we are in compliance with our loan covenants, sell vessels in our fleet and accelerate our indebtedness and foreclose their liens on our vessels and the other assets securing the credit facilities, which would impair our ability to continue to conduct our business. In the past, we have not been in compliance with some of the financial covenants in our credit facilities and have obtained waivers from our lenders for such non-compliance. Furthermore, certain of our debt agreements contain cross-default provisions that may be triggered by a default under one of our other debt agreements. A cross default provision means that a default on one loan would result in a default on certain of our other loans. The occurrence of any event of default, or our inability to obtain a waiver from our lenders in the event of a default, could result in certain or all of our indebtedness being accelerated or the foreclosure of the liens on our vessels by our lenders as described above. If our secured indebtedness is accelerated in full or in part, it would be very difficult in the current financing environment for us to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing and we could lose our vessels and other assets securing our credit facilities if our lenders foreclose their liens, which would adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Moreover, in connection with any waivers of or amendments to our credit facilities that we have obtained, or may obtain in the future, our lenders may impose additional operating and financial restrictions on us or modify the terms of our existing credit facilities. These restrictions may further restrict our ability to, among other things, pay dividends, make capital expenditures or incur additional indebtedness, including through the issuance of guarantees. In addition, our lenders may require the payment of additional fees, require prepayment of a portion of our indebtedness to them, accelerate the amortization schedule for our indebtedness and increase the interest rates they charge us on our outstanding indebtedness. In addition, under the terms of our credit facilities, our payment of dividends or other payments to shareholders as well as our subsidiaries' payment of dividends to us is subject to no event of default. See "Item 8. Financial Information—Dividend Policy." As of December 31, 2014, we were in compliance with all of the financial covenants contained in our credit facilities. Restrictive covenants in our credit facilities impose operating restrictions on us that limit our corporate activities, which could negatively affect our growth and cause our financial performance to suffer. Our credit facilities contain covenants that impose operating restrictions on us. Such restrictions affect, and in many respects limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to pay dividends, incur additional indebtedness, create liens, sell assets, or engage in mergers or acquisitions. These restrictions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs or otherwise restrict corporate activities. These restrictions could adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities which will be in our interest. Our ability to comply with covenants and restrictions contained in our credit facilities may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions worsen, we may fail to comply with these covenants. If we breach any of the restrictions, covenants or ratios in our credit facilities, our obligations may become immediately due and payable, and the lenders' commitment, if any, to make further loans may terminate. A default under any of our credit facilities could also result in foreclosure on any of our vessels and other assets securing the related loans. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. In addition, our discretion is limited because we may need to obtain the consent from our lenders in order to engage in certain corporate actions. Our lenders' interests may be different from ours, and we may not be able to obtain our lenders' consent when needed. This may prevent us from taking actions that are in our security holders' best interest. 5 We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to pay interest on our 4.00% Convertible Unsecured Senior Notes due 2018, to repurchase the notes upon a fundamental change or to settle conversions of the notes in cash. We may also be restricted from satisfying our obligations upon the occurrence of a fundamental change. Our 4.00% Convertible Unsecured Senior Notes due 2018 bear interest semi-annually at a rate of 4.00% per year. In addition, in certain circumstances, we are obligated to pay additional interest or special interest on the notes. If a fundamental change occurs, holders of the notes may require us to repurchase all or a portion of their notes in cash. The terms of our credit facilities may also restrict our ability to repurchase all or a portion of the notes upon a fundamental change in certain circumstances. The occurrence of certain events that constitute a fundamental change also constitute an event of default under some of our credit agreements. Currently, our 2013 Secured Multicurrency Revolving Credit Facility does not allow us to redeem the notes at our option prior to the later of the maturity of the Tranche A Facility (one year tenor) and the maturity of the Tranche B Facility (two year tenor). Furthermore, upon conversion of any notes, unless we elect (or are required) to deliver solely shares of our common stock to settle the conversion (excluding cash in lieu of delivering fractional shares of our common stock), we must make cash payments in respect of the notes. Any of the cash payments described above could be significant, and we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing so that we can make such payments when due. If we fail to pay interest on the notes, repurchase the notes when required or deliver the consideration due upon conversion, we will be in default under the indenture which governs the notes. In the event the conditional conversion feature of our 4.00% Convertible Unsecured Senior Notes due 2018 is triggered, holders of such notes will be entitled to convert such notes at any time during specified periods at their option. Even if holders do not elect to convert their notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital. An inability to obtain financing for our growth or to fund our future capital expenditures could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. In order to fund future vessel acquisitions, expansion into new and existing markets and products, increased working capital levels or capital expenditures, we will be required to use cash from operations, incur borrowings or raise capital through the sale of debt or equity securities in the public or private markets. Use of cash for the above described purposes would reduce cash available for dividend distributions to you. Our ability to obtain additional bank financing or access the capital markets for any future offerings may be significantly limited by the volatility in the global financial markets and the adverse changes in the global credit markets that have occurred in recent years. The credit markets in the United States and elsewhere have experienced significant contraction, deleveraging and reduced liquidity. These adverse market conditions and other contingencies and uncertainties are beyond our control. Our ability to obtain additional bank financing will also depend on our financial condition, which may be adversely affected by prevailing economic conditions. Our failure to obtain funds for such purposes could impact our results of operations and financial condition. The issuance of additional equity securities would dilute your interest in us and reduce dividends payable to our shareholders. Even if we are successful in obtaining additional bank financing, paying debt service would limit cash available for working capital and increasing our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Business acquisition and co-operation opportunities may present increased risks and uncertainties, which if realized, could result in costs that outweigh the financial benefit of such opportunities. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to explore acquisition and co-operation opportunities of marine fuel supply and complementary businesses. Business acquisitions and co-operation opportunities, such as these, could expose us to additional business and operating risks and uncertainties, including: · the ability to effectively integrate and manage acquired businesses and assets; · the ability to realize our investment in the acquired businesses and assets; · the diversion of management's time and attention from other business concerns; · the risk of entering markets in which we may have no or limited direct prior experience; · the potential loss of key employees of the acquired businesses; · the risk that an acquisition could reduce our future earnings; and · exposure to unknown liabilities. Growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks, such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations, difficulty in obtaining additional qualified personnel, managing relationships with customers and suppliers and integrating newly acquired operations into existing infrastructures. For example, in December 2014, we filed a breach of contract claim against Hess Corporation (NYSE: HES), or Hess, for the breach of certain representations and warranties in connection with our acquisition of its East Coast bunkering business. For additional information, please see "Item 8.A Financial Information—Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal Proceedings." Our management may not properly evaluate the risks inherent in any particular transaction. In addition, the expansion of our business may impose significant additional responsibilities on our management and staff, and may necessitate that we increase the number of personnel. We cannot give any assurance that we will be successful in executing our growth plans or that we will not incur significant expenses and losses in connection with our future growth. 6 In addition, the terms of our credit facilities may also restrict our ability to expand or contract our business. In the current economic and regulatory climate, it may be especially difficult to assess the risks involved in a particular transaction due to uncertainty in government responses to market volatility and the contracted credit markets. Furthermore, future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and other expenses. Future acquisitions may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities and may affect the market price of our common shares. Difficulties encountered with acquisitions may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Material weaknesses in our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting could negatively affect shareholder and customer confidence towards our financial reporting and other aspects of our business. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to ensure that material financial and non-financial information that we prepare for public disclosure is recorded, processed, summarized and reported in a timely manner, and that it is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our President and Principal Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding such disclosure. Because there are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of disclosure controls and procedures, including our internal control over financial reporting, controls and procedures may not prevent or detect misstatements. As at December 31, 2014, our management, with the participation of our President and Principal Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures. Based upon that evaluation, our management concluded that as of December 31, 2014, our internal control over financial reporting was not effective due to material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, which are described in "Item 15(b)" of this annual report. These material weaknesses resulted in classification errors that were identified subsequent to the issuance of our earnings release for the three months and year ended December 31, 2014. The classification errors were corrected in our audited consolidated balance sheet, statement of income and statement of cash flows for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014, which are included in this annual report. Although we have initiated remedial steps to address these material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, the existence of these material weaknesses could negatively affect shareholder and customer confidence towards our financial reporting and other aspects of our business. Furthermore, further and continued determinations that there are material weaknesses in the effectiveness of our material controls and procedures would also reduce our ability to obtain financing or could increase the cost of any financing we obtain and require additional expenditures to comply with applicable requirements. Please see "Item 15. Controls and Procedures" for additional information regarding the material weaknesses discussed above. Due to the lack of diversification in our lines of business, adverse developments in the marine fuel supply business would negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. We rely primarily on the revenues generated from our business of physical supply and marketing of refined marine fuel and lubricants to end customers. Due to the lack of diversification in our line of business, an adverse development in our marine fuel supply business would have a significant impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Purchasing and operating secondhand vessels may expose us to increased operating risks because of the quality of those vessels and the lack of builders' or sellers' warranty protection. Our fleet renewal and expansion strategy includes the acquisition of secondhand vessels as well as newbuildings. Unlike newbuildings, secondhand vessels typically do not carry warranties with respect to their condition. Our inspections of secondhand vessels would normally not provide us with as much knowledge of its condition as we would possess if the vessel had been built for us and operated by us throughout its life. Repairs and maintenance costs for secondhand vessels may be more substantial than for vessels we have operated since they were built. These costs could decrease our profits and reduce our liquidity. The market value of our vessels may decrease, which could cause us to incur losses if we decide to sell them following a decline in their market values. The fair market value of the vessels that we currently own or may acquire in the future may increase or decrease depending on a number of factors, including general economic and market conditions affecting the international marine fuel supply industry, including competition from other marine fuel supply companies, types, sizes and ages of our vessels, supply and demand for bunkering tankers, costs of newbuildings and governmental or other regulations. If we sell any vessel when vessel prices have fallen and before we have recorded an impairment charge to our financial statements, the sale may be at less than the vessel's carrying amount on our financial statements, resulting in a loss. Such loss could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. International authorities and flag states may delay implementation of the phase-out of single hull vessels, which may lessen the competitive advantage we hope to gain by acquiring double hull bunkering tankers. Our strategy involves capitalizing on the phase-out of single hull bunkering tankers under environmental protection laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, those promulgated by the European Union, or the EU, and the International Maritime Organization, or the IMO, the United Nations agency for maritime safety and the prevention of pollution by ships. Both the EU and the IMO required a phase-out of all single hull vessels by 2010, or until 2015, subject to certain exemptions. Under the IMO regulations, a flag state may allow newer single hull vessels conforming to certain technical specifications to continue to operate until the earlier of the anniversary of the date of delivery of the vessel in 2015 or the 25th anniversary of the vessel's delivery. Our future success may depend, in part, on the timely and comprehensive implementation of the phase-out of single hull vessels. Any exemption or limitation in application of the environmental protection laws and regulations could limit our anticipated growth or other anticipated benefits because our strategy involves employing and acquiring secondhand double hull bunkering tankers. If we are unable to comply with existing or modified environmental laws and regulations relating to our fuel storage facilities, we would be exposed to significant compliance costs and liabilities. Our operations involving the transportation and storage of fuel are subject to stringent laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment, otherwise relating to protection of the environment, operational safety and related matters. Compliance with these laws and regulations increases our overall cost of business, including our capital costs to maintain and upgrade equipment and facilities, or claims for damages to property or persons resulting from our operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory and remedial liabilities, and the issuance of injunctions that may restrict or prohibit our operations or even claims of damages to property or persons resulting from our operations. The laws and regulations applicable to our operations are subject to change, and compliance with current and future laws and regulations may have a material effect on our results of operations or earnings. A discharge of hazardous materials into the environment could, to the extent such event is not insured, subject us to substantial expense, including both the cost to comply with applicable laws and regulations and liability to private parties for personal injury or property damage. 7 Most of our customers are not obligated to continue to contract our services and if some of our key customers reduce or terminate their purchases, our results of operations would decrease. Generally, we have not derived a significant amount of revenue from written volume commitments from our key customers or any other understandings with our key customers that relate to future purchases. Purchases by our key customers could be reduced or terminated at any time. A substantial reduction or a termination of purchases by any of our key customers could decrease our results of operations. We extend trade credit to most of our customers and our financial position and results of operations may diminish if we are unable to collect accounts receivable. We extend trade credit to most of our customers. Our success in attracting business has been due, in part, to our willingness to extend trade credit on an unsecured basis to our customers. As of December 31, 2014, 82 of our customers, representing 78% of our total customers, had outstanding balances with us of at least $1.0 million under the lines of credit that we have extended to them. Our credit procedures and policies do not fully eliminate customer credit risk. The adverse changes in world credit markets over the last several years may cause these numbers to increase if our customers cannot borrow money and are illiquid. We may not be able to collect on the outstanding balances of our customers if any of our customers enter bankruptcy proceedings. For example, we currently have $7.0 million receivables outstanding from O.W. Bunker AS and certain of its subsidiaries, which we refer to collectively as O.W. Bunker, which filed for bankruptcy protection in November 2014, which may not be recoverable. Losses due to nonpayment by our customers, if significant, would diminish our financial position and results of operations. We depend on a number of key suppliers, which makes us susceptible to supply shortages or price fluctuations that could diminish our operating results. We currently purchase refined marine petroleum products from a number of key suppliers. If our relationship with any of our key suppliers terminates or if any of our key suppliers suffers a disruption in production, we may not be able to obtain a sufficient quantity of refined marine fuel and lubricants on acceptable terms and without interruption in our business. We may experience difficulties and delays in obtaining marine fuel from alternative sources of supply. Any interruption or delay in the supply of marine fuel, or the inability to obtain fuel from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable amount of time, would impair our ability to meet scheduled deliveries to our customers and could cause customers to cancel orders, which would weaken our financial condition and reduce our results of operations. The refined marine fuel that we purchase from our suppliers may fail to meet the contractual specifications that we have agreed to supply to our customers and, as a result, we could lose business from those customers and be subject to claims or other liabilities. If the refined marine fuel that we purchase from our suppliers fails to meet the specifications we have contractually agreed to supply to our customers, we could be subject to claims or other liabilities. In addition, our relationship with our customers may be adversely affected or we could lose our customers. Our insurance policies that protect us against most of the risks involved in the conduct of our business may not be adequate and we may not have any recourse against our suppliers for marine fuel that fails to meet agreed specifications. The loss of customers and increased liabilities would reduce our earnings and could have a material adverse effect on our business, weaken our financial condition and reduce our results of operations. If Aegean Oil or third-party physical suppliers fail to provide services to us and our customers as agreed, we would be subject to customer claims which could negatively affect our business and results of operations. We have contracted with Aegean Oil to provide various services to our customers in Greece, including fueling of vessels in port and at sea. Aegean Oil is a related company owned and controlled by members of the family of Mr. Dimitris Melisanidis, our founder and Head of Corporate Development. Mr. Melisanidis may also be deemed a control person of Aegean Oil and other entities affiliated with us for U.S. securities law purposes, but Mr. Melisanidis disclaims such control. In connection with our limited marine fuel trading activities, from time to time, we contract with other third-party physical suppliers to deliver marine fuel to our customers in markets where we do not have service centers. The failure of Aegean Oil or any other third-party physical supplier to perform these services in accordance with the terms we have agreed with them and our customers could affect our relationships with our customers and subject us to claims and other liabilities which could harm our business or negatively affect our financial results. If Aegean Oil or any third-party physical suppliers fails to perform its obligations to us, you will not have any recourse directly against Aegean Oil or the third-party physical suppliers. Agreements between us, Aegean Oil and other affiliated entities may be more favorable or less favorable than agreements that we could obtain from unaffiliated third-parties. The marine fuel service supply agreement and other agreements we have with Aegean Oil, our largest supplier of marine petroleum products, as well as other agreements we have with affiliated entities have been made in the context of an affiliated relationship. Aegean Oil and other affiliated entities are owned and controlled by members of Mr. Melisanidis' family. Mr. Melisanidis has also been involved historically with our related companies and had a leadership role with respect to the promotion of their products and services. The negotiation of the marine fuel service supply agreement and our other contractual arrangements may have resulted in prices and other terms that are more favorable or less favorable to us than terms we might have obtained in arm's-length negotiations with unaffiliated third-parties for similar services because at the time of the negotiations, we were majority-owned by Leveret International Inc., or Leveret, a company controlled by Mr. Melisanidis. Moreover, Aegean Oil and other affiliated entities remain our related companies, and we remain subject to similar risks in future business dealings with these parties. Please see "Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions." We are vulnerable to price fluctuations of marine fuel, which may result in the reduced value of our inventory and cause us to suffer financial loss. Due to the nature of our business, we may increase the volume of our marine fuel inventories. Depending upon the price and price movement of refined marine fuel, our marine fuel inventories may subject us to a risk of financial loss. Furthermore, marine fuel prices have been volatile in the recent past and may continue to be volatile in the future due to factors outside of our control. These factors include, among others, global economic conditions, changes in global crude oil prices, expected and actual supply and demand for marine fuel, political conditions, laws and regulations related to environmental matters (including those mandating or incentivizing alternative energy sources or otherwise addressing global climate change), changes in pricing or production controls by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), technological advances affecting energy consumption and supply, energy conservation efforts, price and availability of alternative energy sources, and the weather. 8 Although we conservatively manage risks related to such fluctuations, we have no control over the changing market value of our inventory, and pricing terms with our suppliers and customers and hedges by way of oil futures or other instruments, that we have entered, or will enter into, may not adequately protect us in the event of a substantial downward movement in the price of marine fuel. Please see "Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk." Our business and our customers' businesses are vulnerable to currency exchange fluctuations, which could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows and reduce our profitability. Generally, in all of our service centers, we invoice our customers for the sale and delivery of marine petroleum products in U.S. dollars. Many of our customers are foreign customers and may be required to obtain U.S. dollars to pay for our products and services. A rapid depreciation or devaluation in a currency affecting our customers could have an adverse effect on our customers' operations and their ability to convert local currency to U.S. dollars to make required payments to us. This would in turn result in credit losses for us, which would reduce our results of operations and cash flows. Should we enter certain markets where payments and receipts are denominated in local currency or should either the international oil and gas markets or the international shipping markets change their base currency from the U.S. dollar to another international currency such as the Euro, the impact on our dollar-denominated consolidated statements of income may be significant. Due to the minimal historic impact of foreign exchange fluctuations on us, it is our policy to not enter into hedging arrangements in respect of our foreign currency exposures. Please see "Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk." Failure to comply with anti-bribery laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including as a result of criminal, civil and employment sanctions as well as negative publicity. Our operations are subject to various anti-bribery laws, including the UK Bribery Act and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Our employees and/or third parties acting as agents for us could engage in fraudulent behavior against us on their own or others' initiative, making them act against our interests. Such actions could include, entering into agreements with our competitors limiting free competition, document fraud, port bribes, fraudulent commission agreements, facilitation payments and bribes to get access to exclusive business. Whether intentional or not, such actions could potentially put us at risk for both legal liabilities and reputational harm. We may be unable to attract and retain key personnel, which could interrupt our business and limit our growth. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the abilities and efforts of our management team and our ability to hire and retain key members of our management team. The loss of any of these individuals, or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Difficulty in hiring and retaining key personnel could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. We do not intend to maintain "key man" life insurance on any of our officers or our board members, including Mr. Peter C. Georgiopoulos, the Chairman of our board of directors, and Mr. Dimitris Melisanidis, our founder and Head of Corporate Development. We believe that Mr. Georgiopoulos is an important member of our board of directors and Mr. Melisanidis is an important member of our management team and that the loss of the services or involvement in our business on the part of either or both of them would have a material adverse effect on our Company. We have entered into employment agreements with Mr. Melisanidis, Mr. E. Nikolas Tavlarios, our President and Mr. Spyros Gianniotis, our Chief Financial Officer. As we expand our fleet, we may not be able to recruit suitable employees and crew for our tankers, which may limit our growth and cause our financial performance to suffer. As we expand our fleet, we will need to recruit suitable crew, shoreside, administrative and management personnel. We may not be able to continue to hire suitable employees as we expand our fleet of tankers. If we are unable to recruit suitable employees and crews, we may not be able to provide our services to customers, our growth may be limited and our financial performance may suffer. A portion of our employees are covered by national collective bargaining agreements, which set minimum standards for employment, and any industrial action or other labor unrest could disrupt our business. A portion of our employees from Greece, the Philippines and Russia are covered by national collective bargaining agreements, which set minimum standards for employment. Industrial action or other labor unrest could disrupt our business. If not resolved in a timely and cost-effective manner, such industrial action or other labor unrest could prevent or hinder our operations from being carried out normally and could disrupt our business and reduce our results of operations and cash flows. We are a holding company, and are dependent primarily on the ability of our operating subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial and other obligations and to make dividend payments. We are a holding company, and we have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to satisfy our financial and other obligations and to pay dividends depends primarily on the performance of our operating subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. If we are unable to obtain funds from our operating subsidiaries, we will not be able to pay dividends unless we obtain funds from other sources. We may not be able to obtain the necessary funds from other sources on terms acceptable to us. 9 We may not achieve sufficient earnings to pay dividends to our shareholders. We currently intend to pay regular cash dividends on a quarterly basis. We will make such dividend payments to our shareholders only if our board of directors, acting in its sole discretion, determines that payments of dividends would be in our best interest and in compliance with relevant legal and contractual requirements. The principal business factors that our board of directors expects to consider when determining the timing and amount of dividend payments will be our earnings, financial condition and cash requirements at the time. U.S. investors in our Company could suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company. If, for any taxable year, our passive income or our assets that produce or are held for production of passive income exceed levels provided by law, we may be characterized as a "passive foreign investment company," or a PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to our U.S. shareholders. If we are classified as a PFIC, a U.S. shareholder of our common stock could be subject to increased U.S. federal income tax liability upon the sale or other disposition of our common stock or upon the receipt of amounts treated as "excess distributions." Under these rules, the excess distribution and any gain upon a sale of our common stock would be allocated ratably over the U.S. shareholder's holding period for the common stock, and the amount allocated to the current taxable year and any taxable year prior to the first taxable year in which we were a PFIC would be taxed as ordinary income in the current taxable year. The amounts allocated to each of the other taxable years would be subject to tax at the highest marginal rates on ordinary income in effect for the applicable class of taxpayer for that year, and an interest charge for the deemed tax deferral benefit would be imposed on the resulting tax liability as if such tax liability had been due with respect to each such other taxable year. In addition, shareholders of a PFIC may not receive a "step-up" in tax basis on common stock acquired from a decedent. U.S. shareholders should consult with their own U.S. tax advisors with respect to the U.S. tax consequences of investing in our common stock as well as the specific application of the "excess distribution" rule and other rules discussed in this paragraph. We presently believe that we are not a PFIC and do not anticipate becoming a PFIC. This is, however, a factual determination made on an annual basis based on our activities, income and assets, among other factors, and is subject to change. For a discussion of how we might be characterized as a PFIC and related U.S. federal tax income consequences, please see "Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders—Passive Foreign Investment Company." If we become subject to tax in the jurisdictions in which we operate, our net income and cash flow would decrease. Our business is affected by taxes imposed on the purchase and sale of refined marine petroleum products in various jurisdictions in which we operate from time to time. These taxes include income, sales, excise, goods and services taxes, value-added taxes and other taxes. We currently do not pay a significant amount of tax, including withholding taxes, in any jurisdiction in which we operate. As a result of changes in our operations, tax laws or the application by tax authorities of these laws or our failure to comply with tax laws, we may become liable for an increased amount of tax in any jurisdiction. An increased liability for taxes would decrease our net income and cash flow. Our insurance policies may not be adequate to cover our losses and because we obtain some of our insurance policies through protection and indemnity associations, we may be subject to calls in amounts based not only on our own claim records, but also the claim records of other members of the protection and indemnity associations, which could expose us to additional expenses. We carry insurance policies to protect us against most of the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of our business, including marine hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, which includes pollution risks, crew insurance, and war risk insurance. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from our operational risks. Additionally, our insurers may refuse to pay particular claims and our insurance policies may be voidable by the insurers if we take, or fail to take, certain action, such as failing to maintain certification of our vessels with applicable maritime regulatory organizations. Any significant uninsured or under-insured loss or liability could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In addition, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates in the future during adverse insurance market conditions. We may also be subject to calls or premiums in amounts based not only on our claim records but also the claim records of other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive insurance coverage for tort liability, including pollution-related liability. Our payment of these calls could result in significant expense to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Moreover, the protection and indemnity associations and other insurance providers reserve the right to make changes in insurance coverage with little or no advance notice. Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which could disrupt our cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flows and require us to pay a significant amount of money to have the arrest lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions under the "sister ship" theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel that is subject to the claimant's maritime lien and any "associated" vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert "sister ship" liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another vessel in our fleet. Terrorist attacks, piracy, and international hostilities have previously affected the shipping industry, and any future attacks could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. We conduct our marine fuel supply operations worldwide, and our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could suffer by changing economic, political and government conditions in the countries and regions where our vessels are employed or registered. Moreover, we operate in a sector of the economy that is likely to be adversely impacted by the effects of political instability, terrorist or other attacks, war, piracy, or international hostilities, and any restrictive governmental actions that may result in response to such activity. 10 In particular, in recent years, acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels have increased in frequency, which could adversely affect our business. Such acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea and in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, detention hijacking, involving the hostile detention of a vessel, as a result of an act of piracy against our vessels, or an increase in cost, or unavailability of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our principal shareholders own a significant portion of our outstanding common shares, which may limit your ability to influence our actions, and may not act in the best interests of our other shareholders. Our principal shareholders, Mr. Melisanidis, our founder and Head of Corporate Development, and Mr. Georgiopoulos, the Chairman of our board of directors, currently own approximately 22.4% and 10.4% of our outstanding shares of common stock, respectively. Accordingly, Messrs. Melisanidis and Georgiopoulos have the power to exert considerable influence over our actions, including the election of our directors, the adoption or amendment of provisions in our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws and approval of possible mergers, amalgamations, control transactions and other significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination. This concentration of ownership could also discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, which could in turn have an adverse effect on the market price of our shares. So long as Messrs. Melisanidis and Georgiopoulos continue to own a significant amount of our equity, even though such amount represents less than 50% of our voting power, they will continue to be able to exercise considerable influence over our decisions. In addition, Mr. Melisanidis and members of Mr. Melisanidis' family hold significant interest in our related companies and the interests of Mr. Melisanidis may not coincide with the interests of other holders of our notes and common shares. For further discussion, please see "Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions." Messrs. Melisanidis and Georgiopoulos may not necessarily act in accordance with the best interests of other shareholders. To the extent that conflicts of interests may arise, Messrs. Melisanidis and Georgiopoulos may vote in a manner adverse to us or to you or other holders of our securities. In addition, we have entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Melisanidis. The employment agreement restricts Mr. Melisanidis' ability to compete with us during the term of the employment agreement and 12 months following its termination. If we are unable to enforce such restrictions on Mr. Melisanidis against competing with us, any direct or indirect competition from Mr. Melisanidis could be particularly damaging to us. Some of our directors are affiliated with other companies, which could result in conflicts of interest that may not be resolved in our favor. Some of our directors also serve as directors of other public companies and are employees or have investments in companies in industries related to ours. In particular, Mr. Georgiopoulos, the Chairman of our board of directors, is the chairman of the board of directors of Gener8 Maritime, Inc., or Gener8, the combined company resulting from the recent merger on May 7, 2015 of General Maritime Corporation, or General Maritime, and Navig8 Crude Tankers, Inc., or Navig8, and he is also the Chairman of the board of directors and Chief Executive Officer of Genco Shipping & Trading Limited. Also, Mr. John Tavlarios is the Chief Operating Officer of Gener8. As such, Gener8 may be deemed one of our affiliates for United States securities laws purposes. To the extent that the other entities with which our directors may be affiliated compete with us for business opportunities, prospects or financial resources, or participate in ventures in which we may participate, our directors may face actual or apparent conflicts of interest in connection with decisions that could have different implications for us and the other companies. These decisions may relate to corporate opportunities, corporate strategies, potential acquisitions of businesses, intercompany agreements, competition, the issuance or disposition of securities, the election of new or additional directors and other matters. Such potential conflicts may delay or limit the opportunities available to us, and it is possible that conflicts may be resolved in a manner adverse to us. Our status as a foreign private issuer exempts us from certain of the corporate governance standards of the New York Stock Exchange, limiting the protections afforded to investors. We are a "foreign private issuer" within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, corporate governance standards. Under NYSE rules, a foreign private issuer may elect to comply with the practice of its home country and not to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that: · a majority of the board of directors be independent directors; · both a nominating and corporate governance and a compensation committee be established and composed entirely of independent directors and each committee has a written charter addressing its purpose and responsibilities; · an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees be undertaken; · non-management directors meet in regular executive sessions without members of management in attendance; · a company has corporate governance guidelines or a code of ethics; and · an audit committee consists of a minimum of three independent directors. We voluntarily comply with most NYSE rules. However, investors will not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all NYSE corporate governance requirements. 11 Because the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board is not currently permitted to inspect our independent accounting firm, you may not benefit from such inspections. Auditors of U.S. public companies are required by law to undergo periodic Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB, inspections that assess their compliance with U.S. law and professional standards in connection with performance of audits of financial statements filed with the SEC. Certain European Union countries, including Greece, do not currently permit the PCAOB to conduct inspections of accounting firms established and operating in such European Union countries, even if they are part of major international firms. The PCAOB conducted inspections in Greece in 2008 and evaluated our auditor's performance of audits of SEC registrants and our auditor's quality controls. Currently, however, the PCAOB is unable to conduct inspections in Greece until a cooperation agreement between the PCAOB and the Greek Accounting & Auditing Standards Oversight Board is reached. Accordingly, unlike for most U.S. public companies, should the PCAOB again wish to conduct an inspection it is currently prevented from evaluating our auditor's performance of audits and its quality control procedures, and, unlike shareholders of most U.S. public companies, our shareholders would be deprived of the possible benefits of such inspections. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger, amalgamation or acquisition, which could reduce the market price of our common shares. Several provisions of our articles of incorporation and our bylaws could make it difficult for our shareholders to change the composition of our board of directors in any one year, preventing them from changing the composition of management. In addition, the same provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that shareholders may consider favorable. These provisions include: · authorizing our board of directors to issue "blank check" preferred stock without shareholder approval; · providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; · prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; · authorizing the removal of directors only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 70% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote for the directors; · prohibiting shareholder action by written consent unless the written consent is signed by all shareholders entitled to vote on the action; · limiting the persons who may call special meetings of shareholders; and · establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by shareholders at shareholder meetings. In addition, we have entered into a shareholders rights agreement that makes it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us without the support of our board of directors. See "Item 10. Additional Information—B. Memorandum and Articles of Association—Stockholders Rights Agreement." These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public shareholders to benefit from a change in control and, as a result, may reduce the market price of our common stock and the ability of our shareholders to realize any potential change of control premium. We and many of our subsidiaries are incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law, and as a result, shareholders may have fewer rights and protections under Marshall Islands law than under a typical jurisdiction in the United States. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, or the BCA. The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the law of the Republic of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in the United States. The rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in the Marshall Islands may differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in the United States. The BCA provides that it is to be interpreted according to the laws of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions. However, there have been few, if any, court cases interpreting the BCA in the Marshall Islands and Marshall Islands courts may not reach the same conclusions as United States courts. Thus, you may have more difficulty protecting your interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction which has developed a relatively more substantial body of case law. We may be subject to litigation, arbitration and other proceedings that could have an adverse effect on our business. We may be, from time to time, involved in various litigation matters arising in the ordinary course of business, or otherwise. These matters may include, among other things, contract disputes, personal injury claims, environmental matters, governmental claims for taxes or duties, securities, or maritime matters. The potential costs to resolve any claim or other litigation matter, or a combination of these, may have a material adverse effect on us because of potential negative outcomes, the costs associated with asserting our claims or defending such lawsuits, and the diversion of management's attention to these matters. Please see "Item 8.A Financial Information—Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal Proceedings" for a description of our litigation matters. 12 Risk Factors Relating to Our Industry Adverse economic conditions in the shipping industry may reduce the demand for our products and services and negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is focused on the physical supply and marketing of refined marine fuel and marine lubricants to the shipping industry. The shipping industry has been materially adversely affected by current economic conditions which may have an adverse effect on our customers, which may reduce the demand for our products and services and negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, any political instability, terrorist activity, piracy activity or military action that disrupts shipping operations will adversely affect our customers. Any adverse conditions in the shipping industry may reduce the demand for our products and services and negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. Material disruptions in the availability or supply of oil may reduce the supply of our products and have a material impact on our operating results, revenues and costs. The success of our business depends on our ability to purchase, sell and deliver marine petroleum products to our customers. Material disruptions in the availability or supply of oil may have an adverse effect on our suppliers. In addition, any political instability, natural disasters, terrorist activity, piracy, military action or other similar conditions may disrupt the availability or supply of oil and consequently decrease the supply of refined marine fuel. Decreased availability or supply of marine fuel may reduce our operating results, revenues and results of operations. Changes in the market price of petroleum may increase our credit losses, reduce our liquidity and decrease our profitability. Unanticipated changes in the price of oil and gas may negatively affect our business. A rapid decline in fuel prices could decrease our profitability because if we were to purchase inventory when fuel prices are high without having a corresponding sales contract in place, we may not be able to resell it at a profit. Conversely, increases in fuel prices can adversely affect our customers' businesses, and consequently increase our credit losses. Increases in fuel prices could also affect the credit limits extended to us by our suppliers and our working capital requirements, potentially affecting our liquidity and profitability. In addition, increases in oil prices will make it more difficult for our customers to operate and could reduce demand for our services. In the highly competitive marine fuel supply industry, we may not be able to successfully compete for customers with new entrants or established companies with greater resources, which would negatively affect our financial condition and our ability to expand our business. We are subject to aggressive competition in all aspects of our business. Our competitors are numerous, ranging from large multinational corporations, which have significantly greater capital resources than us, to relatively small and specialized firms. In addition to competing with fuel resellers, such as World Fuel Services Corporation and Chemoil Corporation, we also compete with the major oil producers, such as BP Marine, Shell, Marine Products and ExxonMobil, that market fuel directly to large commercial shipping companies. We also compete with physical suppliers of marine fuel products, such as CESPA (Gibraltar) Ltd. and Fujairah National Bunkering Co. LLC, for business from traders and brokers as well as end customers. We may not be able to successfully compete for customers because of increased competition from the major oil producers, or our suppliers who may choose to market directly to large as well as smaller shipping companies, or to provide less advantageous price and credit terms to us. Also, due in part to the highly fragmented market, competitors with greater resources could enter the marine fuel supply industry and operate larger fleets of bunkering tankers through consolidations or acquisitions and may be able to offer better terms than we are able to offer to our customers. Our operations are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in liabilities, fines or penalties and changes of which may require increased capital expenditures and other costs necessary to operate and maintain our vessels. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of fuel and fuel products. We currently store fuel inventories on our bunkering tankers and storage facilities and we may, in the future, maintain fuel inventories at several other locations in fixed or floating storage facilities. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage, and hazardous waste disposal, among other things. If we are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances, if there are releases of fuel and fuel products we own, or if we are found to be in violation of environmental laws or regulations, we could be subject to liabilities that could have a materially adverse effect on our business and operating results. We are also subject to possible claims by customers, employees and others who may be injured by a fuel spill, exposure to fuel, or other accidents. If we should fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil or criminal liability. In particular, our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations in the form of international conventions, national, state and local laws and national and international regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which our vessels operate or are registered, which can significantly affect the ownership and operation of our vessels. These regulations include, but are not limited to, European Union regulations, the United Kingdom's Environmental Protection Act 1990, or EPA, the United Kingdom's Water Resources Act 1991, as amended, or WRA, the Pollution Prevention and Control (England and Wales) Regulations 2010, or the Regulations, and regulations of the IMO, including, the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships of 1973 (as from time to time and generally referred to as MARPOL), including designation of Emission Control Areas thereunder, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Bunker Oil Pollution Damage the IMO International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974 and the International Convention on Load Lines of 1966. In the U.S., we face the risk of liability under the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or the OPA, the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, or CERCLA, the U.S. Clean Air Act, the U.S. Clean Water Act, and the U.S. Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002. We refer you to the discussion in the section of this report entitled "Environmental and Other Regulations" for a description of environmental laws and regulations that affect our business. 13 A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations. Some environmental laws often impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject us to liability without regard to whether we were negligent or at fault. An oil spill could result in significant liability, including fines, penalties, criminal liability and remediation costs for natural resource damages as well as third-party damages. We are required to satisfy insurance and financial responsibility requirements for potential oil (including marine fuel) spills and other pollution incidents. Our insurance policies covering certain environmental risks may not be sufficient to cover all such risks and any claim may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards, may require us to make additional capital expenditures for the installation of costly equipment or operational changes and may affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels. In order to satisfy these requirements, we may, from time to time, be required to take our vessels out of service for extended periods of time, with corresponding losses of revenues. We may also incur additional costs in order to comply with other existing and future regulatory obligations, including costs relating to air emissions, maintenance and inspection, development and implementation of emergency procedures and insurance coverage or other financial assurance of our ability to address pollution incidents. These costs could reduce our results of operations and cash flows and weaken our financial condition. Also, in the future, market conditions may not justify these expenditures or enable us to operate some or all of our vessels profitably during the remainder of their economic lives. Our operations have inherent risks that could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Operating bunkering vessels and marine fuel storage facilities involves inherent risks that could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our vessels and fuel oils that they carry are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as marine disasters, bad weather, mechanical failures, human error, war, terrorism, piracy and other circumstances or events. All of these hazards can result in death or injury to persons, loss of revenues or property, environmental damage, higher insurance rates, damage to our customer relationships, delays or rerouting. Although we maintain insurance to mitigate these costs, there can be no assurance that our insurance would be sufficient to cover the liabilities we may incur as a result of the occurrence of one or more of these events. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired. The costs of vessel repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. We may have to pay repair costs that our insurance policies do not cover. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our results of operations. If one of our vessels were involved in an accident with the potential risk of environmental contamination, the resulting media coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and cash flows and weaken our financial condition. Risk Factors Relating to Our Securities Future sales of our common shares could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The market price of our common stock could decline due to the issuance and, or the announcements of proposed sales, of a large number of common stock in the market, including sales of common stock by our large shareholders, or the issuance of common shares upon the conversion of our 4.00% Convertible Unsecured Senior Notes due 2018, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales, or the perception that these sales could occur, could also make it more difficult or impossible for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate to raise funds through future offerings of common stock. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to, among other things, issue additional shares of common or preferred stock or securities convertible or exchangeable into equity securities, without shareholder approval. We may issue such additional equity or convertible securities to raise additional capital. The issuance of any additional shares of common or preferred stock or convertible securities could be substantially dilutive to our shareholders, including having the following effects: · our existing shareholders' proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; · the amount of cash available for dividends payable on the shares of our common stock may decrease; · the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding common share may be diminished; and · the market price of the shares of our common stock may decline. Moreover, to the extent that we issue restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, options or warrants to purchase our common shares in the future and those stock appreciation rights, options or warrants are exercised or as the restricted stock units vest, our shareholders may experience further dilution. Holders of shares of our common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle such holders to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our shareholders. Our share price may be highly volatile, which could lead to a further loss of all or part of an investor's investment and there may not be a continuing public market for you to resell our common stock. Since 2008, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The market price of our shares of common stock fluctuated substantially during 2014, trading at a high of $14.07 in December 2014 and a low of $6.99 in October 2014, and recently closing at $14.46 on May 14, 2015. If the volatility in the market continues or worsens, it could have a further adverse effect on the market price of our shares of common stock, regardless of our operating performance, and an active and liquid public market for our shares of common stock may not continue. 14 The trading price of our common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to fluctuations in response to a number of factors beyond our control. Some of those factors are: · fluctuations in interest rates; · fluctuations in the availability or the price of oil; · fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; · announcements by us or our competitors; · changes in our relationships with customers or suppliers; · changes in governmental regulation of the fuel industry; · changes in United States or foreign tax laws; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results from period to period; · changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; · changes in accounting principles; · a general or industry-specific decline in the demand for, and price of, our shares of common stock resulting from capital market conditions independent of our operating performance; · the loss of any of our key management personnel; and · our failure to successfully implement our business plan. In recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause declines in the market price of our common stock. The price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with us or our performance, and those fluctuations could materially reduce our common stock price. You may not be able to sell your shares of our common stock in the future at the price that you paid for them or at all. 