ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the factors described below, in addition to the other information set forth in this Annual Report, when evaluating us and our business. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risk Factors Related to our Capital Structure The interests of our controlling stockholders may conflict with interests of other stockholders. Onex Partners LP and other entities affiliated with Onex Corporation, which we refer to together as the Onex entities, own all of our outstanding LP exchangeable units, which are exchangeable at any time, at the option of the holder, for our class B common stock. Our class A common stock has one vote per share, while our class B common stock has ten votes per share (reducing to one vote per share under certain limited circumstances), on all matters to be voted on by our stockholders. Prior to the exchange for class B common stock, the holders of the LP exchangeable units will be able to exercise the same voting rights with respect to Emergency Medical Services as they would have after the exchange through a share of class B special voting stock. As a result, the Onex entities control approximately 97% of our combined voting power. Accordingly, the Onex entities exercise a controlling influence over our business and affairs and have the power to determine all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including the election of directors, the removal of directors, and approval of significant corporate transactions such as amendments to our certificate of incorporation, mergers and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. The Onex entities could cause corporate actions to be taken even if the interests of these entities conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. This concentration of voting power could have the effect of deterring or preventing a change in control of Emergency Medical Services that might otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. Gerald W. Schwartz, the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Onex Corporation, owns shares representing a majority of the voting rights of the shares of Onex Corporation. Onex has the voting power to elect our entire board of directors and to remove any director or our entire board without cause. Although our current board includes “independent directors”, so long as the Onex entities control more than 50% of our combined voting power we are exempt from the NYSE rule that requires that a board be comprised of a majority of “independent directors”. Onex may have a controlling influence over our board, as Onex has sufficient voting power to elect the entire board, and our certificate of incorporation permits stockholders to remove directors at any time with or without cause. 36 As a holding company, our only material asset is our equity interest in EMS LP and our only source of revenue is distributions from EMS LP. Because the Onex entities have the voting power to control our board of directors, they could influence us, as the general partner of EMS LP, to take action at the level of EMS LP that would benefit the Onex entities and conflict with the interest of our class A stockholders. We are a holding company, and we have no material assets other than our direct ownership of a 22.7% equity interest in EMS LP. EMS LP is our only source of cash flow from operations. The Onex entities hold their equity interest in us through LP exchangeable units of EMS LP. As our controlling stockholder, Onex could limit distributions to us from EMS LP, and cause us to amend the EMS LP partnership agreement in a manner that would be beneficial to the Onex entities, as limited partners of EMS LP, and detrimental to our class A stockholders. Any decrease in our distributions from EMS LP would have a negative effect on our cash flow. In order to minimize this conflict, the EMS LP partnership agreement requires that the partnership reimburse us for all of our expenses, including all employee costs and the expenses we incur as a public company, and provides further that no distributions may be made to the Onex entities, as the holders of LP exchangeable units, unless we pay an economically equivalent dividend to all holders of our common stock. The EMS LP partnership agreement provides that amendments to that agreement may only be proposed and authorized by us, as the general partner. The Onex entities could seek to influence our board’s action with respect to any amendment and we, as the general partner of EMS LP, owe a fiduciary duty to the limited partners of the partnership. Our board also owes a fiduciary duty to our common stockholders. Because of the inherent conflict of interest we face between our fiduciary duty to our stockholders, including our class A stockholders, and the Onex entities, as limited partners in EMS LP, the EMS LP partnership agreement provides that, if there is any conflict of interest of the limited partners and our common stockholders, our board may, in the exercise of its business judgment, cause us to act in the best interests of our stockholders. We are party to a management agreement with an affiliate of Onex which permits us to increase substantially the fee we pay to that affiliate. The management agreement between our subsidiaries, AMR and EmCare, and an Onex affiliate provides that the annual fee may be increased from $1.0 million to $2.0 million, which amount represents a significant percentage of our net income. Such an increase would be detrimental to the interest of our class A stockholders if the fee were disproportionate to the benefit we derive from the services the Onex affiliate performs. In order to minimize this potential conflict of interest, the agreement requires that any increase in the fee be approved by a majority of the members of the boards of AMR and EmCare who are not affiliated with Onex. As long as the Onex entities control more than 50% of our combined voting power, they may be able to exercise a controlling influence over the election of the boards of AMR and EmCare. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to operate our business. We have a substantial amount of debt. At December 31, 2006, we had total debt of $479.8 million, including $226.5 million of borrowings under the term loan portion of our senior secured credit facility, $250.0 million of our senior subordinated notes and $1.5 million of capital lease obligations. We had no borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facility and we had $29.9 million of letters of credit outstanding. In addition, subject to restrictions in the indenture governing our notes and the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facility, we may incur additional debt. 37 Our substantial debt could have important consequences to you, including the following: · it may be difficult for us to satisfy our obligations, including debt service requirements under our outstanding debt, · our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other general corporate purposes may be impaired, · we must use a significant portion of our cash flow for payments on our debt, which will reduce the funds available to us for other purposes, · we are more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse industry conditions and our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business or industry is more limited, · our ability to capitalize on business opportunities and to react to competitive pressures, as compared to our competitors, may be compromised due to our high level of debt, and · our ability to borrow additional funds or to refinance debt may be limited. Furthermore, all of our debt under our senior secured credit facility bears interest at variable rates. If these rates were to increase significantly, our ability to borrow additional funds may be reduced and the risks related to our substantial debt would intensify. Servicing our debt will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on numerous factors beyond our control, and we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities. The cash we require to meet contractual obligations in 2007, including our debt service, will total approximately $87 million. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. To some extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Lower net revenues, or higher provision for uncollectibles, generally will reduce our cash flow. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt and meet our other commitments, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt, sell material assets or operations or raise additional debt or equity capital. We cannot assure you that we could effect any of these actions on a timely basis, on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that these actions would be sufficient to meet our capital requirements. In addition, the terms of our existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from effecting any of these alternatives. Restrictive covenants in our senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. Our senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes limit our ability, among other things, to: · incur additional debt or issue certain preferred stock, · pay dividends or make distributions to our stockholders, · repurchase or redeem our capital, · make investments, · incur liens, · make capital expenditures, 38 · enter into transactions with our stockholders and affiliates, · sell certain assets, · acquire the assets of, or merge or consolidate with, other companies, and · incur restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions or transfer assets to us. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and any material deviations from our forecasts could require us to seek waivers or amendments of covenants, alternative sources of financing or reductions in expenditures. We cannot assure you that such waivers, amendments or alternative financings could be obtained, or, if obtained, would be on terms acceptable to us. In addition, the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facility requires us to meet certain financial ratios and restricts our ability to make capital expenditures or prepay certain other debt. We may not be able to maintain these ratios, and the restrictions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs or otherwise restrict corporate activities. If a breach of any covenant or restriction contained in our financing agreements results in an event of default, those lenders could discontinue lending, accelerate the related debt (which would accelerate other debt) and declare all borrowings outstanding thereunder to be due and payable. In addition, the lenders could terminate any commitments they had made to supply us with additional funds. In the event of an acceleration of our debt, we may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to make any accelerated debt payments. Our obligations under our senior secured credit facility are secured by substantially all of our assets. Our obligations under our senior secured credit facility are secured by liens on substantially all of our assets, and the guarantees of our subsidiaries under our senior secured credit facility are secured by liens on substantially all of those subsidiaries’ assets. If we become insolvent or are liquidated, or if payment under our senior secured credit facility or of other secured obligations are accelerated, the lenders under our senior secured credit facility or the obligees with respect to the other secured obligations will be entitled to exercise the remedies available to a secured lender under applicable law and the applicable agreements and instruments, including the right to foreclose on all of our assets. Risk Factors Related to Our Business We could be subject to lawsuits for which we are not fully reserved. In recent years, physicians, hospitals and other participants in the healthcare industry have become subject to an increasing number of lawsuits alleging medical malpractice and related legal theories such as negligent hiring, supervision and credentialing. Similarly, ambulance transport services may result in lawsuits concerning vehicle collisions and personal injuries, patient care incidents and employee job-related injuries. Some of these lawsuits may involve large claim amounts and substantial defense costs. EmCare procures professional liability insurance coverage for most of its affiliated medical professionals and professional and corporate entities. Beginning January 1, 2002, this insurance coverage has been provided by affiliates of CNA Insurance Company, which then reinsure the entire program, primarily through EmCare’s wholly-owned subsidiary, EMCA Insurance Company, Ltd., or EMCA. Workers compensation coverage for EmCare’s employees and applicable affiliated medical professionals is provided under a similar structure for the period. From September 1, 2004 to the closing date of our acquisition of AMR and EmCare, AMR obtained insurance coverage for losses with respect to workers compensation, auto and general liability claims through Laidlaw’s captive insurance company. AMR currently has a self-insurance program fronted by an unrelated third party. AMR retains the risk of loss 39 under this coverage. Under these insurance programs, we establish reserves, using actuarial estimates, for all losses covered under the policies. Moreover, in the normal course of our business, we are involved in lawsuits, claims, audits and investigations, including those arising out of our billing and marketing practices, employment disputes, contractual claims and other business disputes for which we may have no insurance coverage, and which are not subject to actuarial estimates. The outcome of these matters could have a material effect on our results of operations in the period when we identify the matter, and the ultimate outcome could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Our liability to pay for EmCare’s insurance program losses is collateralized by funds held through EMCA and, to the extent these losses exceed the collateral and assets of EMCA or the limits of our insurance policies, will have to be funded by us. Should our AMR losses with respect to such claims exceed the collateral held by Laidlaw in connection with our self-insurance program or the limits of our insurance policies, we will have to fund such amounts. See Item 1, “Business—American Medical Response—Insurance” and “Business—EmCare—Insurance.” The reserves we establish with respect to our losses covered under our insurance programs are subject to inherent uncertainties. In connection with our insurance programs, we establish reserves for losses and related expenses, which represent estimates involving actuarial and statistical projections, at a given point in time, of our expectations of the ultimate resolution and administration costs of losses we have incurred in respect of our liability risks. Insurance reserves inherently are subject to uncertainty. Our reserves are based on historical claims, demographic factors, industry trends, severity and exposure factors and other actuarial assumptions calculated by an independent actuary firm. The independent actuary firm performs studies of projected ultimate losses on an annual basis and provides quarterly updates to those projections. We use these actuarial estimates to determine appropriate reserves. Our reserves could be significantly affected if current and future occurrences differ from historical claim trends and expectations. While we monitor claims closely when we estimate reserves, the complexity of the claims and the wide range of potential outcomes may hamper timely adjustments to the assumptions we use in these estimates. Actual losses and related expenses may deviate, individually and in the aggregate, from the reserve estimates reflected in our financial statements. If we determine that our estimated reserves are inadequate, we will be required to increase reserves at the time of the determination, which would result in a reduction in our net income in the period in which the deficiency is determined. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies—Claims Liability and Professional Liability Reserves” and note 16 of the notes to our financial statements included in Item 8. Insurance coverage for some of our losses may be inadequate and may be subject to the credit risk of commercial insurance companies. Some of our insurance coverage, for periods prior to the initiation of our self-insurance programs as well as portions of our current insurance coverage, is through various third party insurers. To the extent we hold policies to cover certain groups of claims, but either did not obtain sufficient insurance limits, did not buy an extended reporting period policy, where applicable, or the issuing insurance company is no longer viable, we may be responsible for losses attributable to such claims. Furthermore, for our losses that are insured or reinsured through commercial insurance companies, we are subject to the “credit risk” of those insurance companies. While we believe our commercial insurance company providers currently are creditworthy, there can be no assurance that such insurance companies will remain so in the future. 40 We are subject to decreases in our revenue and profit margin under our fee-for-service contracts, where we bear the risk of changes in volume, payor mix and third party reimbursement rates. In our fee-for-service arrangements, which generated approximately 83% of our net revenue for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, we, or our affiliated physicians, collect the fees for transports and physician services. Under these arrangements, we assume financial risks related to changes in the mix of insured and uninsured patients and patients covered by government-sponsored healthcare programs, third party reimbursement rates and transports and patient volume. In some cases our revenue decreases if our volume or reimbursement decreases, but our expenses may not decrease proportionately. See “—Risk Factors Related to Healthcare Regulation—Changes in the rates or methods of third party reimbursements may adversely affect our revenue and operations.” In addition, fee-for-service contracts have less favorable cash flow characteristics in the start-up phase than traditional flat-rate contracts due to longer collection periods. We collect a smaller portion of our fees for services rendered to uninsured patients than for services rendered to insured patients. Our credit risk related to services provided to uninsured individuals is exacerbated because the law requires communities to provide 911 emergency response services and hospital emergency departments to treat all patients presenting to the emergency department seeking care for an emergency medical condition regardless of their ability to pay. We also believe uninsured patients are more likely to seek care at hospital emergency departments because they frequently do not have a primary care physician with whom to consult. We may not be able to successfully recruit and retain physicians and other healthcare professionals with the qualifications and attributes desired by us and our customers. Our ability to recruit and retain affiliated physicians and other healthcare professionals significantly affects our performance under our contracts. In the recent past, our customer hospitals have increasingly demanded a greater degree of specialized skills, training and experience in the healthcare professionals providing services under their contracts with us. This decreases the number of healthcare professionals who may be permitted to staff our contracts. Moreover, because of the scope of the geographic and demographic diversity of the hospitals and other facilities with which we contract, we must recruit healthcare professionals, and particularly physicians, to staff a broad spectrum of contracts. We have had difficulty in the past recruiting physicians to staff contracts in some regions of the country and at some less economically advantaged hospitals. Moreover, we compete with other entities to recruit and retain qualified physicians and other healthcare professionals to deliver clinical services. Our future success in retaining and winning new hospital contracts depends on our ability to recruit and retain healthcare professionals to maintain and expand our operations. Our non-compete agreements and other restrictive covenants involving physicians may not be enforceable. We have contracts with physicians and professional corporations in many states. Some of these contracts, as well as our contracts with hospitals, include provisions preventing these physicians and professional corporations from competing with us both during and after the term of our relationship with them. The law governing non-compete agreements and other forms of restrictive covenants varies from state to state. Some states are reluctant to strictly enforce non-compete agreements and restrictive covenants applicable to physicians. There can be no assurance that our non-compete agreements related to affiliated physicians and professional corporations will not be successfully challenged as unenforceable in certain states. In such event, we would be unable to prevent former affiliated physicians and professional corporations from competing with us, potentially resulting in the loss of some of our hospital contracts. 41 We are required to make significant capital expenditures for our ambulance services business in order to remain competitive. Our capital expenditure requirements primarily relate to maintaining and upgrading our vehicle fleet and medical equipment to serve our customers and remain competitive. The aging of our vehicle fleet requires us to make regular capital expenditures to maintain our current level of service. Our capital expenditures totaled $60.4 million in the year ended December 31, 2006, and $48.9 million in the eleven months ended December 31, 2005. In addition, changing competitive conditions or the emergence of any significant advances in medical technology could require us to invest significant capital in additional equipment or capacity in order to remain competitive. If we are unable to fund any such investment or otherwise fail to invest in new vehicles or medical equipment, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We depend on our senior management and may not be able to retain those employees or recruit additional qualified personnel. We depend on our senior management. The loss of services of any of the members of our senior management could adversely affect our business until a suitable replacement can be found. There may be a limited number of persons with the requisite skills to serve in these positions, and we cannot assure you that we would be able to identify or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms. Our revenue would be adversely affected if we lose existing contracts. A significant portion of our growth historically has resulted from increases in the number of emergency and non-emergency transports, and the number of patient visits and fees for services we provide under existing contracts, and the addition of new contracts. Substantially all of our net revenue in the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 was generated under contracts, including exclusive contracts that accounted for approximately 87% of our fiscal 2006 net revenue. Our contracts with hospitals generally have terms of three years and the term of our contracts with communities to provide 911 services generally ranges from three to five years. Most of our contracts are terminable by either of the parties upon notice of as little as 30 days. Any of our contracts may not be renewed or, if renewed, may contain terms that are not as favorable to us as our current contracts. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in retaining our existing contracts or that any loss of contracts would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, certain of our contracts will expire during each fiscal period, and we may be required to seek renewal of these contracts through a formal bidding process that often requires written responses to a Request for Proposal (“RFP”). We cannot assure you that we will be successful in retaining such contracts or that we will retain them on terms that are as favorable as present terms. We may not accurately assess the costs we will incur under new contracts. Our new contracts increasingly involve a competitive bidding process. When we obtain new contracts, we must accurately assess the costs we will incur in providing services in order to realize adequate profit margins and otherwise meet our financial and strategic objectives. Increasing pressures from healthcare payors to restrict or reduce reimbursement rates at a time when the costs of providing medical services continue to increase make assessing the costs associated with the pricing of new contracts, as well as maintenance of existing contracts, more difficult. In addition, integrating new contracts, particularly those in new geographic locations, could prove more costly, and could require more management time, than we anticipate. Our failure to accurately predict costs or to negotiate an adequate profit margin could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 42 The high level of competition in our segments of the market for emergency medical services could adversely affect our contract and revenue base. AMR. The market for providing ambulance transport services to municipalities, other healthcare providers and third party payors is highly competitive. In providing ambulance transport services, we compete with governmental entities (including cities and fire districts), hospitals, local and volunteer private providers, and with several large national and regional providers, such as Rural/Metro Corporation, Southwest Ambulance and Acadian Ambulance. In many communities, our most important competitors are the local fire departments, which in many cases have acted traditionally as the first response providers during emergencies, and have been able to expand their scope of services to include emergency ambulance transport and do not wish to give up their franchises to a private competitor. EmCare. The market for providing outsourced physician staffing and related management services to hospitals and clinics is highly competitive. Such competition could adversely affect our ability to obtain new contracts, retain existing contracts and increase or maintain profit margins. We compete with both national and regional enterprises such as Team Health, Sterling Healthcare, The Schumacher Group and National Emergency Services Healthcare Group, some of which may have greater financial and other resources available to them, greater access to physicians and/or greater access to potential customers. We also compete against local physician groups and self-operated hospital emergency departments for satisfying staffing and scheduling needs. Our business depends on numerous complex information systems, and any failure to successfully maintain these systems or implement new systems could materially harm our operations. We depend on complex, integrated information systems and standardized procedures for operational and financial information and our billing operations. We may not have the necessary resources to enhance existing information systems or implement new systems where necessary to handle our volume and changing needs. Furthermore, we may experience unanticipated delays, complications and expenses in implementing, integrating and operating our systems, including the integration of our AMR and EmCare systems. Any interruptions in operations during periods of implementation would adversely affect our ability to properly allocate resources and process billing information in a timely manner, which could result in customer dissatisfaction and delayed cash flow. We also use the development and implementation of sophisticated and specialized technology to differentiate our services from our competitors and improve our profitability. The failure to successfully implement and maintain operational, financial and billing information systems could have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain new business, retain existing business and maintain or increase our profit margins. If we fail to implement our business strategy, our financial performance and our growth could be materially and adversely affected. Our future financial performance and success are dependent in large part upon our ability to implement our business strategy successfully. Our business strategy envisions several initiatives, including increasing revenue from existing customers, growing our customer base, pursuing select acquisitions, implementing cost rationalization initiatives, focusing on risk mitigation and utilizing technology to differentiate our services and improve profitability. We may not be able to implement our business strategy successfully or achieve the anticipated benefits of our business plan. If we are unable to do so, our long-term growth and profitability may be adversely affected. Even if we are able to implement some or all of the initiatives of our business plan successfully, our operating results may not improve to the extent we anticipate, or at all. Implementation of our business strategy could also be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, such as increased competition, legal developments, government regulation, general economic conditions or increased operating costs or expenses. In addition, to the extent we have misjudged the 43 nature and extent of industry trends or our competition, we may have difficulty in achieving our strategic objectives. Any failure to implement our business strategy successfully may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and thus our ability to service our debt. In addition, we may decide to alter or discontinue certain aspects of our business strategy at any time. A successful challenge by tax authorities to our treatment of certain physicians as independent contractors could require us to pay past taxes and penalties. As of December 31, 2006, we contracted with approximately 1,300 physicians as independent contractors to fulfill our contractual obligations to customers. Because we treat them as independent contractors rather than as employees, we do not (i) withhold federal or state income or other employment related taxes from the compensation that we pay to them, (ii) make federal or state unemployment tax or Federal Insurance Contributions Act payments (except as described below), (iii) provide workers compensation insurance with respect to such affiliated physicians (except in states that require us to do so even for independent contractors), or (iv) allow them to participate in benefits and retirement programs available to employed physicians. Our contracts with our independent contractor physicians obligate these physicians to pay these taxes and other costs. Whether these physicians are properly classified as independent contractors depends upon the facts and circumstances of our relationship with them. It is possible that the nature of our relationship with these physicians would support a challenge to our classification of them. If such a challenge by federal or state taxing authorities were successful, and the physicians at issue were instead treated as employees, we could be adversely affected and liable for past taxes and penalties to the extent that the physicians did not fulfill their contractual obligations to pay those taxes. Under current federal tax law, however, even if our treatment were successfully challenged, if our current treatment were found to be consistent with a long-standing practice of a significant segment of our industry and we meet certain other requirements, it is possible (but not certain) that our treatment of the physicians would qualify under a “safe harbor” and, consequently, we would be protected from the imposition of past taxes and penalties. In the recent past, however, there have been proposals to eliminate the safe harbor and similar proposals could be made in the future. We may make acquisitions which could divert the attention of management and which may not be integrated successfully into our existing business. We may pursue acquisitions to increase our market penetration, enter new geographic markets and expand the scope of services we provide. We cannot assure you that we will identify suitable acquisition candidates, that acquisitions will be completed on acceptable terms, that our due diligence process will uncover all potential liabilities or issues affecting our integration process, or that we will be able to integrate successfully the operations of any acquired business into our existing business. Furthermore, acquisitions into new geographic markets and services may require us to comply with new and unfamiliar legal and regulatory requirements, which could impose substantial obligations on us and our management, cause us to expend additional time and resources, and increase our exposure to penalties or fines for non-compliance with such requirements. The acquisitions could be of significant size and involve operations in multiple jurisdictions. The acquisition and integration of another business would divert management attention from other business activities. This diversion, together with other difficulties we may incur in integrating an acquired business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may borrow money or issue capital stock to finance acquisitions. Such borrowings might not be available on terms as favorable to us as our current borrowing terms and may increase our leverage, and the issuance of capital stock could dilute the interests of our stockholders. 44 If Laidlaw is unwilling or unable to satisfy any indemnification claims made by us pursuant to the purchase agreements relating to the acquisition of AMR and EmCare, we will be forced to satisfy such claims ourselves. Laidlaw has agreed to indemnify us for certain claims or legal actions brought against us arising out of the operations of AMR and EmCare prior to the closing date of the acquisition. If we make a claim against Laidlaw, and Laidlaw is unwilling or unable to satisfy such claim, we would be required to satisfy the claim ourselves and, as a result, our financial condition may be adversely affected. Many of our employees are represented by labor unions and any work stoppage could adversely affect our business. Approximately 48% of AMR’s employees are represented by 42 collective bargaining agreements. Twenty-five of these collective bargaining agreements, representing approximately 3,700 employees, are subject to renegotiation in 2007. Although we believe our relations with our employees are good, we cannot assure you that we will be able to negotiate a satisfactory renewal of these collective bargaining agreements or that our employee relations will remain stable. Risk Factors Related to Healthcare Regulation We conduct business in a heavily regulated industry and if we fail to comply with these laws and government regulations, we could incur penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated and closely scrutinized by federal, state and local governments. Comprehensive statutes and regulations govern the manner in which we provide and bill for services, our contractual relationships with our physicians and customers, our marketing activities and other aspects of our operations. Failure to comply with these laws can result in civil and criminal penalties such as fines, damages and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws and regulations is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are sometimes open to a variety of interpretations. Any action against us for violation of these laws or regulations, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. Our practitioners and our customers are also subject to ethical guidelines and operating standards of professional and trade associations and private accreditation agencies. Compliance with these guidelines and standards is often required by our contracts with our customers or to maintain our reputation. The laws, regulations and standards governing the provision of healthcare services may change significantly in the future. We cannot assure you that any new or changed healthcare laws, regulations or standards will not materially adversely affect our business. We cannot assure you that a review of our business by judicial, law enforcement, regulatory or accreditation authorities will not result in a determination that could adversely affect our operations. We are subject to comprehensive and complex laws and rules that govern the manner in which we bill and are paid for our services by third party payors, and the failure to comply with these rules, or allegations that we have failed to do so, can result in civil or criminal sanctions, including exclusion from federal and state healthcare programs. Like most healthcare providers, the majority of our services are paid for by private and governmental third party payors, such as Medicare and Medicaid. These third party payors typically have differing and complex billing and documentation requirements that we must meet in order to receive payment for our services. Reimbursement to us is typically conditioned on our providing the correct procedure and diagnostic codes and properly documenting the services themselves, including the level of service provided, the medical necessity for the services, and the identity of the practitioner who provided the service. 45 We must also comply with numerous other laws applicable to our documentation and the claims we submit for payment, including but not limited to (1) ”coordination of benefits” rules that dictate which payor we must bill first when a patient has potential coverage from multiple payors; (2) requirements that we obtain the signature of the patient or patient representative, when possible, or document why we are unable to do so, prior to submitting a claim; (3) requirements that we make repayment to any payor which pays us more than the amount to which we are entitled; (4) requirements that we bill a hospital or nursing home, rather than Medicare, for certain ambulance transports provided to Medicare patients of such facilities; (5) ”reassignment” rules governing our ability to bill and collect professional fees on behalf of our physicians; (6) requirements that our electronic claims for payment be submitted using certain standardized transaction codes and formats; and (7) laws requiring us to handle all health and financial information of our patients in a manner that complies with specified security and privacy standards. See Item 1, “Business—Regulatory Matters—Medicare, Medicaid and Other Government Reimbursement Programs.” Governmental and private third party payors and other enforcement agencies carefully audit and monitor our compliance with these and other applicable rules, and in some cases in the past have found that we were not in compliance. We have received in the past, and expect to receive in the future, repayment demands from third party payors based on allegations that our services were not medically necessary, were billed at an improper level, or otherwise violated applicable billing requirements. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” Our failure to comply with the billing and other rules applicable to us could result in non-payment for services rendered or refunds of amounts previously paid for such services. In addition, non-compliance with these rules may cause us to incur civil and criminal penalties, including fines, imprisonment and exclusion from government healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, under a number of state and federal laws. These laws include the federal False Claims Act, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 and other provisions of federal, state and local law. In addition, from time to time we self-identify practices that may have resulted in Medicare or Medicaid overpayments or other regulatory issues. For example, we have previously identified situations in which we may have inadvertently utilized incorrect billing codes for some of the services we have billed to government programs such as Medicare or Medicaid. In such cases, if appropriate, it is our practice to disclose the issue to the affected government programs and to refund any resulting overpayments. Although the government usually accepts such disclosures and repayments without taking further enforcement action, it is possible that such disclosures or repayments will result in allegations by the government that we have violated the False Claims Act or other laws, leading to investigations and possibly civil or criminal enforcement actions. See Item 1, “Business—Regulatory Matters—Corporate Compliance Program and Corporate Integrity Obligations.” If our operations are found to be in violation of these or any of the other laws which govern our activities, any resulting penalties, damages, fines or other sanctions could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. See Item 1, “Business—Regulatory Matters—Federal False Claims Act” and “Business—Other Healthcare Fraud and Abuse Laws.” Changes in the rates or methods of third party reimbursements may adversely affect our revenue and operations. We derive a majority of our revenue from direct billings to patients and third party payors such as Medicare, Medicaid and private health insurance companies. As a result, any changes in the rates or methods of reimbursement for the services we provide could have a significant adverse impact on our revenue and financial results. Government funding for healthcare programs is subject to statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations of policy and determinations by intermediaries and governmental funding restrictions, all of which could materially impact program coverage and reimbursements for both 46 ambulance and physician services. In recent years, Congress has consistently attempted to curb spending on Medicare, Medicaid and other programs funded in whole or part by the federal government. State and local governments have also attempted to curb spending on those programs for which they are wholly or partly responsible. This has resulted in cost containment measures such as the imposition of new fee schedules that have lowered reimbursement for some of our services and restricted the rate of increase for others, and new utilization controls that limit coverage of our services. For example, we estimate that the impact of a national fee schedule promulgated in 2002, as modified by subsequent legislation, resulted in a decrease in AMR’s net revenue for fiscal 2004 of approximately $11 million, resulted in an increase in AMR’s net revenue of approximately $16 million for calendar 2005, and resulted in a decrease in AMR’s net revenue of approximately $17 million in 2006. Based upon the current Medicare transport mix, we expect a further decrease in our net revenue totaling approximately $2 million for the period 2007 through 2010. See Item 1, “Business—Regulatory Matters—Medicare, Medicaid and Other Government Reimbursement Programs.” In addition, state and local government regulations or administrative policies regulate ambulance rate structures in some jurisdictions in which we conduct transport services. We may be unable to receive ambulance service rate increases on a timely basis where rates are regulated, or to establish or maintain satisfactory rate structures where rates are not regulated. We believe that regulatory trends in cost containment will continue. We cannot assure you that we will be able to offset reduced operating margins through cost reductions, increased volume, the introduction of additional procedures or otherwise. In addition, we cannot assure you that federal, state and local governments will not impose reductions in the fee schedules or rate regulations applicable to our services in the future. Any such reductions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If current or future laws or regulations force us to restructure our arrangements with physicians, professional corporations and hospitals, we may incur additional costs, lose contracts and suffer a reduction in net revenue under existing contracts, and we may need to refinance our debt or obtain debt holder consent. A number of laws bear on our contractual relationships with our physicians. There is a risk that state authorities in some jurisdictions may find that these contractual relationships violate laws prohibiting the corporate practice of medicine and fee-splitting prohibitions. These laws prohibit the practice of medicine by general business corporations and are intended to prevent unlicensed persons or entities from interfering with or inappropriately influencing the physician’s professional judgment. They may also prevent the sharing of professional services income with non-professional or business interests. From time to time, including recently, we have been involved in litigation in which private litigants have raised these issues. See Item 1, “Business—Regulatory Matters—Fee-Splitting; Corporate Practice of Medicine.” Our physician contracts include contracts with individual physicians and with physicians organized as separate legal professional entities (e.g., professional medical corporations). Antitrust laws may deem each such physician/entity to be separate, both from EmCare and from each other and, accordingly, each such physician/practice is subject to a wide range of laws that prohibit anti-competitive conduct between or among separate legal entities or individuals. A review or action by regulatory authorities or the courts could force us to terminate or modify our contractual relationships with physicians and affiliated medical groups or revise them in a manner that could be materially adverse to our business. See Item 1, “Business—Regulatory Matters—Antitrust Laws.” Various licensing and certification laws, regulations and standards apply to us, our affiliated physicians and our relationships with our affiliated physicians. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in our services being found to be non-reimbursable or prior payments being subject to recoupment, and can give rise to civil or criminal penalties. We are pursuing steps we believe we must take to retain or obtain all requisite licensure and operating authorities. While we have made 47 reasonable efforts to substantially comply with federal, state and local licensing and certification laws and regulations and standards as we interpret them, we cannot assure you that agencies that administer these programs will not find that we have failed to comply in some material respects. EmCare’s professional liability insurance program, under which insurance is provided for most of our affiliated medical professionals and professional and corporate entities, is reinsured through our wholly-owned subsidiary, EMCA Insurance Company, Ltd. The activities associated with the business of insurance, and the companies involved in such activities, are closely regulated. Failure to comply with the laws and regulations can result in civil and criminal fines and penalties and loss of licensure. While we have made reasonable efforts to substantially comply with these laws and regulations, and utilize licensed insurance professionals where necessary and appropriate, we cannot assure you that we will not be found to have violated these laws and regulations in some material respects. Adverse judicial or administrative interpretations could result in a finding that we are not in compliance with one or more of these laws and rules that affect our relationships with our physicians. These laws and rules, and their interpretations, may also change in the future. Any adverse interpretations or changes could force us to restructure our relationships with physicians, professional corporations or our hospital customers, or to restructure our operations. This could cause our operating costs to increase significantly. A restructuring could also result in a loss of contracts or a reduction in revenue under existing contracts. Moreover, if we are required to modify our structure and organization to comply with these laws and rules, our financing agreements may prohibit such modifications and require us to obtain the consent of the holders of such debt or require the refinancing of such debt. Our contracts with healthcare facilities and marketing practices are subject to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, and we recently entered into a settlement for alleged violations of that statute. We are subject to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits the knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of “remuneration” in return for, or to induce, the referral of business or ordering of services paid for by Medicare or other federal programs. “Remuneration” potentially includes discounts and in-kind goods or services, as well as cash. Certain federal courts have held that the Anti-Kickback Statute can be violated if “one purpose” of a payment is to induce referrals. Violations of the Anti-Kickback Statute can result in imprisonment, civil or criminal fines or exclusion from Medicare and other governmental programs. In 1999, the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, or the OIG, issued an Advisory Opinion indicating that discounts provided to health facilities on the transports for which they are financially responsible potentially violate the Anti-Kickback Statute when the ambulance company also receives referrals of Medicare and other government-funded transports from the facility. The OIG has clarified that not all discounts violate the Anti-Kickback Statute, but that the statute may be violated if part of the purpose of the discount is to induce the referral of the transports paid for by Medicare or other federal programs, and the discount does not meet certain “safe harbor” conditions. In the Advisory Opinion and subsequent pronouncements, the OIG has provided guidance to ambulance companies to help them avoid unlawful discounts. See Item 1, “Business—Regulatory Matters—Federal Anti-Kickback Statute.” Like other ambulance companies, we have provided discounts to our healthcare facility customers (nursing home and hospital) in certain circumstances. We have attempted to comply with applicable law when such discounts are provided. However, the government alleged that certain of our hospital and nursing home contracts in effect in Texas in periods prior to 2002 contained discounts in violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, and in 2006 we entered into a settlement with the government regarding these allegations. The settlement included a CIA. 48 There can be no assurance that other investigations or legal action related to our contracting practices will not be pursued against AMR in other jurisdictions or for different time frames. See Item 1, “Business—American Medical Response—Legal Matters.” If we are found to have violated the Anti-Kickback Statute, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties, including exclusion from the Medicare or Medicaid programs, or may be required to enter into settlement agreements with the government to avoid such sanctions. Typically, such settlement agreements require substantial payments to the government in exchange for the government to release its claims, and may also require us to enter into a CIA. See Item 1, “Business—Regulatory Matters—Corporate Compliance Program and Corporate Integrity Obligations.” In addition to AMR’s contracts with healthcare facilities, other marketing practices or transactions entered into by AMR and EmCare may implicate the Anti-Kickback Statute. Although we have attempted to structure our past and current marketing initiatives and business relationships to comply with the Anti-Kickback Statute, we cannot assure you that the OIG or other authorities will not find that our marketing practices and relationships violate the statute. Changes in our ownership structure and operations require us to comply with numerous notification and reapplication requirements in order to maintain our licensure, certification or other authority to operate, and failure to do so, or an allegation that we have failed to do so, can result in payment delays, forfeiture of payment or civil and criminal penalties. We and our affiliated physicians are subject to various federal, state and local licensing and certification laws with which we must comply in order to maintain authorization to provide, or receive payment for, our services. For example, Medicare and Medicaid require that we complete and periodically update enrollment forms in order to obtain and maintain certification to participate in programs. Compliance with these requirements is complicated by the fact that they differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, and in some cases are not uniformly applied or interpreted even within the same jurisdiction. Failure to comply with these requirements can lead not only to delays in payment and refund requests, but in extreme cases can give rise to civil or criminal penalties. In certain jurisdictions, changes in our ownership structure require pre- or post-notification to governmental licensing and certification agencies, or agencies with which we have contracts. Relevant laws in some jurisdictions may also require re-application or re-enrollment and approval to maintain or renew our licensure, certification, contracts or other operating authority. The change in corporate structure and ownership in connection with our initial public offering required us to give notice, re-enroll or make other applications for authority to continue operating in various jurisdictions or to continue receiving payment from their Medicaid or other payment programs. While we have made reasonable efforts to substantially comply with these requirements, we cannot assure you that the agencies that administer these programs or have awarded us contracts will not find that we have failed to comply in some material respects. A finding of non-compliance and any resulting payment delays, refund demands or other sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we fail to comply with the terms of our settlement agreements with the government, we could be subject to additional litigation or other governmental actions which could be harmful to our business. In the last four years, we have entered into five settlement agreements with the United States government. In June 2002, one of our subsidiaries, AMR of Massachusetts, entered into a settlement agreement to resolve a number of allegations, including allegations related to billing and documentation practices. In February 2003, another subsidiary, AMR of South Dakota, entered into a settlement agreement to resolve allegations that it incorrectly billed for transports performed by other providers when an AMR paramedic accompanied the patient during transport, and that it billed for certain non-emergency 49 transports using emergency codes. In July 2004, our subsidiary, American Medical Response West, entered into a settlement agreement in connection with billing matters related to emergency transports and specialized services. In August 2004, AMR entered into a settlement agreement on behalf of a subsidiary, Regional Emergency Services LP, or RES, to resolve allegations of violations of the False Claims Act by RES and a hospital system based on the absence of certificates of medical necessity and other non-compliant billing practices. In September 2006, AMR entered into a settlement agreement to resolve allegations that AMR subsidiaries provided discounts to healthcare facilities in Texas in periods prior to 2002 in violation of the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” As part of the settlement AMR West entered into with the government, we entered into a Corporate Integrity Agreement, or CIA, which is still in effect. Pursuant to this CIA, we are required to establish and maintain a compliance program which includes, among other elements, the appointment of a compliance officer and committee, review by an independent review organization, and reporting of overpayments and other “reportable events.” In connection with the September 2006 settlement for AMR, we also entered into a CIA which requires us to maintain a compliance program which includes the training of employees and safeguards involving our contracting process nationwide (including tracking of contractual arrangements in Texas). AMR of Massachusetts entered into a CIA in connection with its June 2002 settlement, the term of which has expired. See Item 1, “Business—Regulatory Matters—Corporate Compliance Program and Corporate Integrity Obligations.” We cannot assure you that the CIAs or the compliance program we have initiated has prevented, or will prevent, any repetition of the conduct or allegations that were the subject of these settlement agreements, or that the government will not raise similar allegations in other jurisdictions or for other periods of time. If such allegations are raised, or if we fail to comply with the terms of the CIAs, we may be subject to fines and other contractual and regulatory remedies specified in the CIAs or by applicable laws, including exclusion from the Medicare program and other federal and state healthcare programs. Such actions could have a material adverse effect on the conduct of our business, our financial condition or our results of operations. If we are unable to effectively adapt to changes in the healthcare industry, our business may be harmed. Political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry in the United States to fundamental change. We anticipate that Congress and state legislatures may continue to review and assess alternative healthcare delivery and payment systems and may in the future propose and adopt legislation effecting fundamental changes in the healthcare delivery system. We cannot assure you as to the ultimate content, timing or effect of changes, nor is it possible at this time to estimate the impact of potential legislation. Further, it is possible that future legislation enacted by Congress or state legislatures could adversely affect our business or could change the operating environment of our customers. It is possible that changes to the Medicare or other government reimbursement programs may serve as precedent to similar changes in other payors’ reimbursement policies in a manner adverse to us. Similarly, changes in private payor reimbursement programs could lead to adverse changes in Medicare and other government payor programs which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risk Factors Related to Our Corporate Governance Our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws contain provisions that could discourage another company from acquiring us and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any 50 attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our current board of directors. These provisions include: · providing for a classified board of directors with staggered terms, · providing for the class B special voting stock which will be voted as directed by the Onex entities, · providing for multi-vote shares of common stock which, upon exchange of LP exchangeable units, will be owned by the Onex entities, · establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings, and · the authority of the board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 20 million shares of preferred stock with such terms as the Board of Directors may determine and an additional 54 million shares of common stock. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange rules and, as a result, qualify for, and intend to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Because the Onex entities own more than 50% of our combined voting power, we are deemed a “controlled company” under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange, or the NYSE. As a result, we qualify for, and rely upon, the “controlled company” exception to the board of directors and committee composition requirements under the rules of the NYSE. Pursuant to this exception, we are exempt from rules that would otherwise require that our board of directors be comprised of a majority of “independent directors,” and that our compensation committee and corporate governance and nominating committee be comprised solely of “independent directors” (as defined under the rules of the NYSE), so long as the Onex entities continue to own more than 50% of our combined voting power. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 