Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors That May Affect Our Future Results or the Market Price of Our Stock We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves numerous uncertainties and risks. Investors evaluating our company and our business should carefully consider the factors described below and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This section should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in this report. Any of the following factors could materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition and/or negatively affect our stock price. Additional factors and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial could also harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We may make forward-looking statements from time to time, both written and oral. We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements based on circumstances or events which occur in the future. The actual results may differ materially from those projected in any such forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those set forth below and elsewhere in this report. The enterprise software business is highly competitive. We compete with Oracle Corporation, SAP AG, Infor Global Solutions, Inc., Microsoft Corporation, McKesson Corporation and other larger software companies that have advantages over us due to their larger customer bases, greater name recognition, long operating and product development history, greater international presence and substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources. If customers or prospects want to reduce the number of their software vendors, they may elect to purchase competing products from Oracle, SAP, Infor or Microsoft since those larger vendors offer a wider range of products. Furthermore, Oracle is capable of bundling its software with its database applications, which underlie a significant portion of our installed applications. We also compete with a variety of more specialized software and services vendors, including: •single-industry software vendors; •human resource management software vendors; •financial management software vendors; •manufacturing software vendors; •merchandising software vendors; •services automation software vendors; •software integrators and outsourced services providers; and •Internet (on demand) software vendors. 16 We believe that Oracle, SAP and other competitors are discounting their products and services on an increasing basis to attempt to gain market share in the markets where we compete. Some competitors are also increasingly aggressive with offering payment terms, contractual warranties, implementation terms or guarantees that are more favorable to customers and prospects. Competitors may entice our customers and prospects to switch software vendors by offering those customers or prospects free or heavily discounted products or services, and other more favorable contract terms. We may be unable to continue to compete successfully with new and existing competitors without lowering prices or offering other favorable terms to customers that lower our margins and increase our risks. We expect competition to persist and intensify, which could negatively impact our operating results and market share. Economic, political and market conditions, can adversely affect our revenue growth and operating results. Our revenue and profitability depend on the overall demand for enterprise software and related maintenance and services, particularly in the industries and geographies in which we sell our products and services. Demand for enterprise software and demand for our solutions are affected by general economic conditions, competition, product acceptance and technology lifecycles. Regional and global changes in the economy, governmental budget deficits and political instability in certain geographic areas have resulted in businesses, government agencies and educational institutions reducing their spending for technology projects generally and delaying or reconsidering potential purchases of our products and related services. The uncertainty posed by the long-term effects of escalating oil prices, the global economic slowdown, continuation of the global credit crisis, the war in the Middle East, terrorist activities, potential pandemics, natural disasters and related uncertainties and risks and other geopolitical issues may impact the purchasing decisions of current or potential customers. Because of these factors, we believe the level of demand for our products and services, and projections of future revenue and operating results, will continue to be difficult to predict. These geopolitical risks could also impede employee travel and our business operations in any affected regions. Our revenues, and in particular our software license revenues, vary each quarter and are difficult to predict. Revenues from license fees in any quarter depend substantially upon our licensing activity with new and existing customers, and our ability to recognize revenues in that quarter under our revenue recognition policies. If we do not continue to develop or acquire new products, licensing activity with existing customers will decline. Licensing activity for our products drives maintenance and services revenues because we sell maintenance and services for only our products. A decrease in licensing activity will typically lead to a decrease in services revenue in the same or subsequent quarters. If we do not have sufficient licensing activity with new customers each year, our maintenance revenue for the following year will decline because new customers are needed to offset the percentage of existing customers who scale back their businesses, reduce licenses and maintenance contracts, are acquired, or otherwise choose not to renew annual maintenance. Our sales force and marketing team must continue to generate sales leads among existing customers and prospective customers. When we "qualify" a lead, that lead becomes part of our sales "pipeline." If our pipeline does not continue to grow in our different markets and geographies, our revenues will eventually decline. The rate at which we convert our pipeline into actual sales can vary greatly from year to year for the following reasons: •The period between initial customer contact and a purchase by a customer may vary and can be more than one year. During the sales cycle, prospective customers may decide not to purchase or may scale down purchases because of competing offers, budgetary constraints or changes in the prospect's management, strategy, business or industry. Increasingly, customer or prospect organizations are taking more steps to approve the purchase of our products and services. Often times, we must wait for a customer or prospect's board of directors to approve a purchase. These added approval requirements can delay the sales cycle and jeopardize the likelihood of completing the sale. 17 •A substantial number of our existing and prospective customers make their purchase decision within the last few weeks or days of each quarter. A delay or deferral in a small number of large new software license transactions could cause our quarterly license revenue to fall significantly short of our predictions. •Prospective customers may decline or defer the purchase of new products if we do not have sufficient customer references for those products. •New products or technologies, software industry mergers and other software industry news may create uncertainty and cause customers and prospective customers to cancel, postpone or reduce capital spending for our products. Because a substantial portion of our software license revenue contracts are completed in the latter part of a quarter, and our cost structure is largely fixed in the short term, unexpected revenue shortfalls and deferrals have a disproportionately negative impact on our profitability. We may not retain or attract customers if we do not develop new products and enhance our current products in response to technological changes and competing products. The enterprise software market is faced with rapid technological change, evolving standards in computer hardware, software development and communications and security infrastructure, and changing needs and expectations of customers. Building new products and service offerings requires significant investment in development. A substantial portion of our research and development resources are devoted to regulatory and maintenance requirements and product upgrades that address new technology support. These demands put significant constraints on our resources available for new product development. We also face uncertainty when we develop or acquire new products because there is no assurance that a sufficient market will develop for those products. We may be unable to identify or complete suitable acquisitions and investments; and any acquisitions and investments we do complete may create business difficulties or dilute earnings. As part of our business strategy, we intend to pursue strategic acquisitions in the future. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisitions or investment candidates. Even if we identify suitable candidates, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to make acquisitions or investments on commercially acceptable terms. If we acquire a company, we may incur losses in the operations of that company and we may have difficulty integrating its products, personnel and/or operations into our business. In addition, its key personnel may decide not to work for us. These difficulties could disrupt our on-going business, distract our management and workforce, increase our expenses and adversely affect our operating results. We may also incorrectly judge the value or worth of an acquired company or business. Furthermore, we may incur significant debt or issue equity securities to pay for future acquisitions or investments. The issuance of equity securities may be dilutive to our stockholders. If the products of an acquired company are not successful, those remaining assets could become impaired, which may result in an impairment loss that could materially adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. A significant portion of our future revenue is dependent upon our existing installed base of customers continuing to license additional products, as well as purchasing consulting services and renewing their annual maintenance agreements. If our existing customers fail to renew their maintenance agreements or elect not to purchase new products or additional services from us at historical levels, our revenues and results of operations could be materially impacted. 18 Competitors may take advantage of our limited intellectual property protection. We consider certain aspects of our internal operations, software and documentation to be proprietary, and rely on a combination of contract, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws to protect this information. In addition, we currently hold two patents in the U. S. and have filed several patent applications. Outstanding applications may not result in issued patents and, even if issued, the patents may not provide any competitive advantage. Copyright laws afford only limited protection because those laws do not protect product ideas. In addition, when we license our products to customers, we provide source code for many of our products. Customers may also access source code through a source code escrow arrangement. Access to our source code could provide an opportunity for companies to offer competing maintenance and product modification services to our customers. Defending our intellectual property rights is time consuming and costly. Deterioration in our relationships with resellers, systems integrators and other third-parties that market and sell our products could reduce our revenues. Our revenue growth will depend, in part, on adding new partners to expand our sales channels, as well as leveraging our relationships with existing partners. If our relationships with these resellers, system integrators and strategic and technology partners deteriorate or terminate, we may lose sales and marketing opportunities. Some current and potential customers rely on third-party systems integrators to implement and manage new and existing applications. These systems integrators may increase their promotion of competing enterprise software applications, or may otherwise discontinue their relationships with us. We also license third-party software products that we incorporate into, or resell with, our own software products. For example, we incorporate Micro Focus International, Inc.'s software in many of our products and have reseller and alliance relationships with IBM, Business Software Incorporated, Business Objects and other businesses that allow us to resell their offerings with our products and services. These relationships and other technology licenses are subject to periodic renewal and may include minimum sales requirements. A failure to renew or early termination of these relationships or other technology licenses could adversely impact our business. Charges to earnings resulting from past acquisitions may adversely affect our operating results. Under purchase accounting, we allocate the total purchase price to an acquired company's net tangible assets, intangible assets and in-process research and development based on their fair values as of the date of the acquisition and record the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. Management's estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain. Going forward, the following factors could result in material charges that would adversely affect our results: •impairment of goodwill or intangible assets; •identification of assumed contingent liabilities subsequent to the finalization of the purchase price allocation; •charges to income to eliminate certain Lawson pre-merger activities that duplicate those of the acquired company or to reduce our cost structure; or International sales and operations subject us to risks that can adversely affect our operating results. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues, and have significant operations, outside of the U.S. Our international operations include software development, sales, customer support and administration. We face challenges in managing an organization operating in various countries, which can entail longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, overlapping tax regimes, difficulties in transferring funds from certain 19 countries and reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. We must comply with a variety of international laws and regulations, including trade restrictions, local labor ordinances, and import and export requirements. We may experience foreign currency gains and losses. We conduct a significant portion of our business in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Our revenues and operating results are affected when the dollar strengthens or weakens relative to other. Changes in the value of major foreign currencies, particularly the Euro, Swedish Krona and British Pound relative to the U.S. dollar can significantly affect our revenues and operating results. Recognized balance sheet exposures are partially offset by forward currency contracts. Net foreign currency transaction gains and losses, resulting primarily from recognized balance sheet exposures, are recorded within earnings in the period incurred. Litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to legal and regulatory requirements applicable to our business and industry throughout the world. We are subject to various legal proceedings and the risk of litigation by employees, customers, suppliers, stockholders or others through private actions, class actions, administrative proceedings or other litigation. Litigation can be lengthy, expensive, and disruptive to our operations and results cannot be predicted with certainty. There may also be adverse publicity associated with litigation, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately found liable. As a result, litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Others may claim that we infringe their intellectual property rights. Many participants in the technology industry have an increasing number of patents and have frequently demonstrated a readiness to take legal action based on allegations of patent and other intellectual property infringement. These types of claims are time consuming and costly to defend. If a successful claim is made against us and we fail to develop or license a substitute technology, our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be adversely affected. Our products are deployed in large and complex systems and may contain defects or security flaws. Because our products are deployed in large and complex systems, they can only be fully tested for reliability when deployed in networks for long periods of time. Our software programs may contain undetected defects when first introduced or as new versions are released. Our customers might encounter difficulties with the implementation of our products, discover defects in our products, experience corruption of their data or encounter performance or scaling problems only after our software programs have been deployed. As a consequence, from time to time we have received customer complaints or been sued. In addition, our products are combined with products from other vendors. As a result, should problems occur, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. Software and data security are becoming increasingly important because of regulatory restrictions on data privacy and the significant legal exposures and business disruptions stemming from computer viruses and other unauthorized entry or use of computer systems. We may not be able to avoid or limit liability for disputes relating to product performance, software security or the provision of services. Product defects and security flaws could expose us to product liability and warranty claims and harm our reputation, which could impact our future sales of products and services. 20 Open source software may diminish our license fees and impair the ownership of our products. The open source community is comprised of many different formal and informal groups of companies, software developers and individuals who have created a wide variety of software and have made that software available for use, distribution and modification, often free of charge. Open source software, such as the Linux operating system, has been gaining in popularity among business users. If developers contribute enterprise application software to the open source community, and that software has competitive features and scale to business users in our markets, we will need to change our product pricing and distribution strategy to compete. If one of our developers embedded open source components into one of our products, without our knowledge or authorization, our ownership and licensing of that product could be in jeopardy. Depending on the open source license terms, the use of an open source component could mean that all products delivered with that open source component become part of the open source community. In that case, we would not own those delivered products and could not charge license fees for those products. We currently take steps to train our developers and monitor the content of products in development, but there is no assurance that these steps will always be effective. Our profit margin for consulting services is lower than margins related to the other aspects of our business. The consulting part of our business is highly competitive, is less proprietary, and industry-wide carries a much lower gross margin than the other aspects of our business. For fiscal 2008, consulting services represented approximately 45.0% of our total revenues. Since our acquisition of Intentia in April 2006, we have taken measures to improve our profit margin for consulting services, including improving utilization of services personnel and moving portions of our consulting services to our lower cost operations in Manila, Philippines. We have experienced margin improvements over the past two fiscal years and expect to make continued improvements going forward. However, our consulting services business is highly sensitive to customer demands, competitive pressures and other external and internal forces. Our actions to improve our consulting services margin may be offset by these forces which could negatively impact our operating results. We have started to deliver our Strategic Human Capital Management Solution through Software as a Service (SaaS), which may adversely affect our operating profit margins because the SaaS license and delivery model differs substantially from our traditional business practices. Traditionally, we have licensed and delivered our products to customers under a perpetual license, with the customer being responsible for obtaining and operating the computer hardware for that software. We have begun to offer our Strategic Human Capital Management Solution through SaaS, and might add additional SaaS offerings in the future. For each SaaS offering, we license the software under a term license and are responsible for the hosting and maintenance of that software on the computer hardware. The customer accesses, on a remote basis, the SaaS software from our data center administered by a third-party firm. Selling, servicing and supporting SaaS customers is substantially different than our traditional perpetual licenses, which can increase our costs and fulfillment risks. We have recently completed the remediation of a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 that was reported from the first quarter of fiscal 2007 through the third quarter of fiscal 2008. However, situations could arise in the future that could result in the assessment of a future material weakness. During the first quarter of fiscal 2007, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to the lack of a sufficient number of qualified accounting personnel with the required proficiency to apply our accounting policies in accordance with U.S. GAAP. This material weakness became evident pursuant to our acquisition and integration of Intentia. Through hiring and training efforts we have significantly improved our internal control over financial reporting including an 21 increase in the number of qualified accounting personnel with the required proficiency to apply our accounting policies in accordance with U.S. GAAP. As a result, we have remediated the previously reported material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of May 31, 2008. Situations could arise in the future including but not limited to (a) a significant acquisition(s), (b) a major system implementation, or (c) significant turnover of key finance and/or accounting personnel which could result in the occurrence of internal control deficiencies that may be determined to be a material weakness. The existence of a material weakness could increase the risk that our Consolidated Financial Statements may not fairly present, in all material respects, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for the periods presented and may lead to delays in our ability to complete our financial reporting on a timely basis. We must attract and retain account executives in our sales organization to achieve our revenue goals. Revenue growth, and in particular software license revenue growth, requires that we have a sufficient number of trained account executives in our sales organization to develop leads and call on prospective customers. Competition in our industry for experienced account executives is intense. Competitors and other software companies may lure away our account executives through signing bonuses and other special incentives. The failure to attract and retain account executives will negatively impact our revenue growth. When we hire a new account executive, the time period required for that person to become productive will vary, depending on their experience and training and the customer pipeline and length of sales cycle. If we are unable to attract and retain senior management, software developers, services consultants, finance and accounting specialists, and other qualified personnel, we will be unable to develop new products and increase our revenue and profitability. We also rely on the continued service of our senior management, software developers, services consultants, finance and accounting specialists, and other key employees. In the software industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly skilled business, product development, technical, financial and other personnel. The failure to attract, train, retain and effectively manage employees could negatively impact our development and efforts and cause a degradation of our customer service. If we are unable to attract and retain finance and accounting personnel who have experience with the software industry and U. S. accounting requirements, we will have to continue to rely on more costly contractors to fill the roles necessary for us to meet our governance and regulatory requirements. We are required to delay revenue recognition into future periods for portions of our license fee activity. Our entire worldwide business is subject to United States generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP). Under those rules, we are required to defer revenue recognition for license fees in situations that include the following: •the customer agreement includes products that are under development or has other undelivered elements; •the customer agreement includes essential services, including significant modifications, customization or complex interfaces (this is more prevalent with our M3 products); •the customer agreement includes acceptance criteria; •the customer agreement includes extended or contingent payment terms or fees; •a third-party vendor, whose technology is incorporated into our products, delays delivery of its product to the customer; 22 •the customer agreement includes a fixed-fee service arrangement for which we do not have "vendor specific objective evidence" (VSOE) of fair value; or •we are not able to establish historical pricing and maintenance renewal rates to meet the VSOE requirements of these accounting rules. We expect that we will continue to defer recognition of portions of our license fee activity in each period because of these factors, with deferrals more likely for (a) our M3 products because of product customization (often required due to the nature of the manufacturing and distribution industries) that is frequently included with new sales, (b) sales to governmental entities because those often include fixed-fee arrangements for which we do not have VSOE of fair value, and (c) sales of large license fee contracts because it is more difficult to use standard contract terms. The amount of license fees deferred may be significant and will vary each quarter, depending on the mix of products sold in each market and geography, and the actual contract terms. We may take additional restructuring actions that result in financial charges in the period taken. Since our acquisition of Intentia in April 2006, we have been integrating our two companies and executing on our business plan. We have consolidated Lawson and Intentia facilities and taken other restructuring actions to reduce combined company costs. We have continued to expand our operations in the Philippines, reducing certain higher cost employee positions in the United States and Europe. If we decide to take additional restructuring actions to improve our operational efficiencies, we may be required to incur financial charges in the period when we make such decisions, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations for that period. We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. As a multinational organization, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the U.S. as well as in various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision and other tax liabilities. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, there is no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. We are also subject to non-income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, both in the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes and may have additional exposure to additional non-income tax liabilities. Our effective tax rate may increase or fluctuate, which could increase our income tax expense and reduce our net income. We have had an unusually high effective tax rate and are taking steps to bring our effective tax rate more in line with our industry. However, there is no assurance that we will be successful because our effective tax rate can be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: •Changes in the relative proportions of revenues and income before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates; •Changing tax laws, regulations, and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate; •Changes to the financial accounting rules for income taxes; •Unanticipated changes in tax rates; •Changes in accounting and tax treatment of stock-based compensation; 23 •The tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between reporting periods; •Changes to the valuation allowance on net deferred tax assets; or •The assessments, or any related tax interest or penalties, could significantly affect our income tax expense for the period in which the settlements take place. We report our results of operations based on our determinations of the amount of taxes owed in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate. Periodically, we receive notices that a tax authority to which we are subject has determined that we owe a greater amount of tax than we have reported to such authority, and we regularly engage in discussions, and sometimes disputes with these tax authorities. We are engaged in disputes of this nature from time to time. If the ultimate determination of our taxes owed in any of these jurisdictions is for an amount in excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for, our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected. We have adopted anti-takeover defenses that could make it difficult for another company to acquire control of Lawson or limit the price investors might be willing to pay for our stock. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, our stockholder rights plan and Delaware law could make it more difficult for other businesses to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain the following provisions, among others, which may inhibit an acquisition of our company by a third-party: •advance notification procedures for matters to be brought before stockholder meetings; •a limitation on who may call stockholder meetings; •a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent; and •the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without a stockholder vote. The issuance of stock under our stockholder rights plan could delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests. We are also subject to provisions of Delaware law that prohibit us from engaging in any business combination with any "interested stockholder," meaning generally that a stockholder who beneficially owns more than 15% of our stock cannot acquire us for a period of three years from the date this person became an interested stockholder unless various conditions are met, such as approval of the transaction by our board of directors. Any of these restrictions could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. Control by existing shareholders could significantly influence matters requiring stockholder approval. As of May 31, 2008, our executive officers, directors, and affiliated entities, in the aggregate, beneficially owned approximately 15.6% of our outstanding common stock. From time to time, hedge fund investors have accumulated large positions in our stock. Groups of stockholders, if acting together, would be able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combinations. Sale of a portion of these shares in the public market, or the perception that such sales are likely to occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. 24 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 