Item 1A. Risk Factors Some of the statements made in this report are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based upon our current expectations and projections about future events. When used in this report, the words “believe,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “estimate,” “expect” and similar expressions, or the negative of such words and expressions, are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain such words or expressions. The forward-looking statements in this report are primarily located in the material set forth under the headings “Business,” “Risk Factors” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” but are found in other locations as well. These forward-looking statements generally relate to our plans, objectives and expectations for future operations and are based upon management’s current estimates and projections of future results or trends. Although we believe that our plans and objectives reflected in or suggested by these forward-looking statements are reasonable, we may not achieve these plans or objectives. You should read this report completely and with the understanding that actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. We will not update forward-looking statements even though our situation may change in the future. Specific factors that might cause actual results to differ from our expectations or may affect the value of the common stock, include, but are not limited to: • our inability to compete successfully with current or future competitors within our industry; • our inability to retain members of our executive management or other key employees; • the termination or impairment of our relationships with key network affiliates; • the termination or impairment of our advertiser relationships; • our inability to manage our growth effectively; • our inability to successfully expand into additional international markets; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and the results of hedging transactions, if any; • our inability to obtain additional debt or equity financing, if required; and • unforeseen litigation. Industry data and other statistical information used in this report are based on independent publications, government publications, reports by market research firms or other published independent sources. Some data is also based on our good faith estimates, derived from our review of internal surveys and the independent sources listed above. Although we believe these sources are reliable, we have not independently verified the information. 9 Table of Contents Other factors that could cause actual results to differ from those implied by the forward-looking statements in this report are more fully described below. Our past operating results may not be indicative of our future performance and we may be unable to continue operating successfully in our existing markets or to establish successful operations in additional markets. Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Australia Traffic Network, introduced its services in Australia in 1997. Through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, Canadian Traffic Network, we began delivering radio traffic reports to radio stations in Canada in December 2005 and generating revenue from our Canadian operations in January 2006. We formed UK Traffic Network in October 2006 and recently commenced operations in the United Kingdom but had not generated any revenue as of June 30, 2008. Although certain members of management have experience with providing traffic information in certain international markets, we have a limited history of providing our services in Canada and the United Kingdom and no experience providing our services in other international markets. See “We intend to expand into additional international markets and our inexperience in those markets increases the risk that our international expansion efforts will not be successful.” The success of any previous operations in Australia may not be indicative of the results of our efforts to provide continued or additional services in Australia, or to provide our services in Canada, the United Kingdom and other markets. The successful operation of our business in Australia, Canada, United Kingdom or other international markets, will require a certain level of continued capital expenditures and operating expenditures which we are committed to undertaking. There can be no assurance that we will be able to operate and expand our business as contemplated. We have previously incurred operating losses in connection with the introduction of radio news reports inventory in Australia and we may be unable to conduct our expanded operations profitably. Although during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 we generated approximately $0.8 million more in revenues from the sale of inventory embedded in radio news reports than the direct operating costs relating to radio news report inventory (excluding sales compensation costs), since we began accumulating advertising inventory from certain network affiliate radio stations in Australia in July 2005 the direct operating costs related to radio news reports inventory had exceeded the revenue generated from the sale of such inventory. The direct operating costs relating to radio news reports inventory (excluding sales compensation costs) exceeded revenues from the sale of such inventory by approximately $1.3 million for the year ended June 30, 2006 and approximately $0.8 million for the year ended June 30, 2007. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to generate sufficient revenues to offset the additional operating expenses associated with acquiring radio news reports advertising inventory. Our news operating costs were approximately $3.6 million for the year ended June 30, 2006, approximately $5.3 million for the year ended June 30, 2007 and approximately $6.6 million for the year ended June 30, 2008. We have incurred operating losses in connection with our expansion of operations into Canada and may be unable to operate profitably in Canada. In connection with our expansion in to Canada, we have incurred net losses of approximately $160,000 for the period from May 16, 2005 (inception) through June 30, 2005, $2.6 million for the year ended June 30, 2006, $3.8 million for the year ended June 30, 2007, and $3.1 million for the year ended June 30, 2008. We expect losses from our Canadian operations to continue as we continue to incur significant expenses and capital expenditures in connection with providing our service offerings, building our infrastructure and developing our base of advertisers. As of June 30, 2008, we have invested approximately $17.1 million in our Canadian subsidiary in the form of an intercompany advance. If our Canadian revenue grows more slowly than we anticipate, or if our Canadian operating expenses are higher than we expect, we may not be able to achieve, sustain or increase profitability from our Canadian operations. Although our delivery of radio traffic reports in Australia has historically been profitable, we may be unable to replicate such profitable operations in Canada, due to cultural differences, regulatory restrictions, economic instability, or otherwise. If we are unable to operate profitably in Canada, we may be forced to abandon our Canadian operations without recovering the costs incurred in our expansion efforts, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and negatively impact our business prospects. The price of our common stock could decline as a result. We have incurred operating losses in connection with our expansion of operations into the United Kingdom and may be unable to operate profitably in the United Kingdom. On October 19, 2006, we formed a wholly-owned subsidiary, UK Traffic Network, in anticipation of launching business operations in the United Kingdom. For the year ended June 30, 2008 UK Traffic Network incurred a net loss of approximately $1.8 million and for the year ended June 30, 2007, UK Traffic Network incurred a net loss of approximately $0.8 million. For the years ended June 30, 2008 and 2007, we had generated no revenue from the UK Traffic Network operations. Currently, the UK Traffic Network has eleven traffic network affiliates and an agreement to provide the Highways Agency service under the Traffic Radio contract. We also have a letter of intent to acquire the commercial division of UBC Media Group plc. Should the acquisition not occur, we would continue to incur losses in the United Kingdom while we attempted to build sufficient critical mass for our traffic network. In addition, should the letter of intent be terminated, we are precluded for a period of time from competing with UBC Media Group plc for network affiliates except in certain narrowly defined instances. It is unlikely we can operate profitably in the United Kingdom solely with our existing radio network affiliates. Even if we are able to expand our traffic network, if revenue grows more slowly than we anticipate, or if our operating expenses are higher than we expect, we may not be able to achieve, sustain or increase profitability from our operations in the United Kingdom. In addition, business operations in the United Kingdom (and especially the potential acquisition) will require significant management attention and financial resources that could otherwise be devoted to expanding operations in our existing markets. Although our provision of radio traffic reports in Australia has historically been profitable, we may be unable to replicate profitable operations in the United Kingdom due to cultural differences, regulatory restrictions, economic instability, or otherwise. If we are unable to operate profitably in the United Kingdom, we may be forced to abandon our operations there without recovering the up-front costs incurred in our expansion efforts, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and negatively impact our business prospects. The price of our common stock could decline as a result. 10 Table of Contents There is significant risk and uncertainty surrounding our potential acquisition of the commercial division of UBC Media Group plc. There are numerous risks associated with our contemplated acquisition of UBC Media Group plc’s commercial division even if we proceed to consummate the transaction. Among these risks is our lack of experience with acquisitions in general and large acquisitions in particular. While certain members of management have experience with acquisitions of existing businesses (including traffic reporting services) the only acquisition we have made was that of Wise Broadcasting Network Inc., which was not material to the Company. Based on the exchange rates at June 30, 2008, the initial payment would be approximately $21.9 million with a potential additional $11.0 million in contingent deferred payments. Potential risks include issues overlooked or improperly assessed during the due diligence process, loss of key employees, radio stations and/or advertisers following completion of the transaction and additional competition arising after the acquisition. In addition, while there are similarities between the radio networks that UBC Media Group plc operates in the United Kingdom and our networks in Australia and Canada, the business models are not identical and may require significant transition, which may not prove successful. An inability to successfully transition the target company’s business model may result in a retrospective determination that we misjudged the true value of the target company’s business. These risks are increased by our relative inexperience in the United Kingdom market. In addition, since we are paying a high multiple of operating income for the commercial division, if we do not improve the performance of the acquisition, the amount of capital expended may be greater than the ultimate value of the acquisition. All of these potential risks may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and negatively impact our business prospects. The price of our common stock could decline as a result. We have incurred operating losses in connection with our formation of Mobile Traffic Network and our contemplated expansion of its operations and may be unable to operate Mobile Traffic Network profitably in the United States or elsewhere. On March 7, 2008, we formed Mobile Traffic Network as a wholly owned subsidiary to take advantage of the opportunities surrounding applications using our passive alerting technology for mobile phones, for which we have applied for patent protection. As a new technology, there are significant risks and uncertainties involving these applications. Our intention is to initially offer traffic reports in the United States using our technology via arrangements with one or more mobile phone providers. There is no assurance that we will be able to come to a satisfactory agreement with any mobile phone carrier. Since we do not produce traffic information in the United States there is no assurance we will be able to enter into an agreement that will supply us with the data required to offer services. Even if we come to agreement with a mobile phone carrier and one or more suppliers of traffic data, those agreements may not be on terms attractive to us. Because we anticipate that our product offering will be mainly advertising supported, there is no assurance that sufficient mobile phone users will “opt in” to make our application an attractive advertising platform. Even if a critical mass of mobile phone users “opt in” to our application, we may not be successful in selling advertising opportunities on the platform to advertisers. In addition, we currently have no operations in the United States and our experience in selling advertising is limited to commercials broadcast on radio and television, for which there is an established advertising market. Our lack of presence in the United States (including an established sales staff) will likely increase our costs because it is unlikely that we will be able to take advantage of our existing infrastructure. There is also no assurance that the technology will work as planned or that our application for patent protection will be granted. Technology dependent industries are often characterized by uncertain and conflicting intellectual property claims and frequent intellectual property litigation, especially regarding patent rights. We could be subject to claims of infringement of third party intellectual property rights, which could result in significant expense and could ultimately result in the loss of intellectual property rights. In addition, because patent applications in the United States are not publicly disclosed until the patent is issued, applications may have been filed which relate to our application of which we are not aware. We may in the future receive notices of claims that our products infringe or may infringe intellectual property rights of third parties. Any litigation to determine the validity of these claims, including claims arising through our contractual indemnification of our business partners, regardless of their merit or resolution, would likely be costly and time consuming and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. If any such litigation resulted in an adverse ruling, we could be required, among other things, to pay substantial damages, cease offering our application, or obtain a license under the intellectual property rights of the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. The market for mobile phone applications and related software is competitive and reliant on technology developments and adapting to changing market demands and consumer preferences. Even if we are able to develop and commercialize our application, we may face competition from one or more companies that introduce related technologies and applications. These companies may have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do and may be able to respond more rapidly than we can to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer demands. They may also devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we do. If we are able to commercialize our application but unable to compete successfully with such companies, results of operations from Mobile Traffic Network, and consequently our Company as a whole, would suffer. 11 Table of Contents Our level of expenditure on the technology and our product offering may be significant prior to our knowing whether the product has a likelihood of success. If we are unable to operate Mobile Traffic Network profitably, we may be forced to abandon our operations without recovering the up-front costs incurred, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and negatively impact our business prospects. The price of our common stock could decline as a result. Our financial success depends on our ability to compete successfully in obtaining and maintaining contracts with radio and television stations and we may be unable to acquire or renew such contracts. The success of our business is largely dependent on our ability to maintain and acquire contracts with radio and television stations (“Affiliate Contracts”) in Australia, Canada, the United Kingdom and any other market into which we may expand our operations in the future. We face various sources of competition in providing our information reporting services. We believe that single market operators and groups of radio or television stations (whether or not under common ownership) that prepare and deliver their own traffic reports comprise our primary competition. Consolidation in the radio and television markets may create additional opportunities and economies of scale for large radio and/or television groups to provide their own traffic reporting services, which would pose greater competition to us. In addition to providers of broadcast reports, there are also alternative means of compiling traffic information and delivering such information to the public. Certain governmental agencies, including some state and local departments of transportation, generate selected traffic flow data through strategically positioned cameras or sensors that monitor traffic flow, which can be used by our competitors and directly accessed by consumers. Certain private entities generate selected traffic flow data and provide such information directly to consumers. We may also face future competition from providers of information reporting services that utilize new technologies to which we may not have access, both for the gathering and delivery of information. Such new technologies may reduce the demand for our services or render our services obsolete. Our current and potential competitors may offer alternative types of information services and may have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing or other resources than we do. There can be no assurance that our business will not be adversely affected by current or increased competition for acquiring Affiliate Contracts and providing information services in the markets in which we operate. We obtain our advertising inventory from radio and television stations in exchange for information reports and/or, for certain broadcasters, cash compensation. We may be required to increase the cash compensation that we pay for our commercial advertising inventory in certain cases, including in response to competition from third party information providers or groups of radio and television stations that prepare and deliver their own information reports. If we are required to increase the amount of cash compensation that we pay to certain network affiliates in exchange for our commercial advertising inventory, or to pay cash compensation to additional network affiliates, our financial condition may suffer and our stock price may decline. Due to the short-term nature of our Affiliate Contracts, which generally range from one to four years, and because we deliver information reports to several of our network affiliates pursuant to unwritten arrangements or expired Affiliate Contracts that may be construed as cancelable at will, we are vulnerable at all times to competition from other providers of information reporting services and from stations or groups of stations that may elect to prepare and deliver their own information reports. If we are unable to maintain a significant number of our network affiliates, either due to non-renewal of our Affiliate Contracts upon expiration or termination of unwritten arrangements with network affiliates, our commercial advertising inventory would decrease, possibly significantly, which would likely lead to significant declines in revenues. Our financial success depends on our ability to compete successfully in selling commercial advertising inventory to advertisers and we may be unable to sell such inventory. Our business success is dependent on our ability to sell our commercial advertising inventory that we receive from our network affiliates in exchange for providing our information reporting services and/or, for certain broadcasters, cash compensation. Selling advertising is highly competitive. We compete for advertising sales with radio and television stations, including our network affiliates, as well as with other media, including other forms of communications media such as newspapers, magazines, outdoor advertising, transit advertising, internet advertising, direct response advertising, yellow page directories and point-of-sale advertising, among others. As a result of the advertising competition we face, we experience and expect to continue to experience increased price competition, which could lower our rates for radio and television advertising and could result in a decline in our revenues for radio and television advertising, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and negatively impact our business prospects. The price of our common stock could decline as a result. In addition, our overall business is subject to competition from existing or future entities that provide information reporting services in exchange for network-based advertising spots using a business model that is similar to ours. We currently compete with such an entity in Canada, Skywords Inc., which primarily operates in the Toronto market, but which also operates in certain other Canadian markets in which we provide our services. In the United Kingdom should we not acquire the commercial division of UBC Media Group plc as contemplated by the letter of intent, we will face competition from Itis Holdings plc through its Trafficlink Limited subsidiary and UBC Media Group plc, which provide traffic reporting services to commercial radio stations and sell advertising acquired from those stations, respectively. We may also face competition from TrafficMaster Limited, which provides traffic data and services to stations formerly owned by GCap Media plc, which was one of the largest broadcasters in the United Kingdom. In the face of such competition, whether in Australia, Canada, the United Kingdom or any other market in which we introduce our services, we may not be able to provide information reporting services that are superior to our competitors’ or competitively priced against the services of our competitors. Even if we provide superior services, the presence of a competing service provider may lead to confusion and increase pricing competition, which may provide advertisers with additional leverage in negotiating the sale terms of our commercial advertising inventory. Such effects of competition may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and negatively impact our business prospects. The price of our stock could decline as a result. 12 Table of Contents Our ability to sell commercial advertising and generate revenues may be subject to economic and industry fluctuations that are beyond our control. Because we generate substantially all of our revenues through the sale of commercial advertising, the success of our business is closely linked to the performance of the advertising industry. The advertising industry overall, in turn, tends to be affected by general economic conditions and is sensitive to the overall level of consumers’ disposable income within a given market. If people migrate to markets where we have a smaller or no presence, or if the general population shifts into a less desirable age or geographical demographic from an advertising perspective, advertisers may only be willing to pay lower fees for our commercial advertising inventory. A decline in general economic conditions within a market in which we operate could adversely affect advertising revenues generated from that market and, in turn, have an adverse effect on our profitability, operating results, financial conditions and the price of our common stock. In addition, our business is dependent upon the performance of the highly competitive radio and television industries. We generate revenue by selling commercial advertising inventory of our network affiliate radio and television stations. Radio and television stations compete for audiences and advertising revenues with other radio and television stations, as well as with other media, such as newspapers, magazines, direct mail, satellite radio and internet based media, within their respective markets. As a result, radio and television audience ratings and market shares are subject to change, which, if adverse, may result in a reduction of our advertising revenues. Our network affiliates’ competitors may develop services or media that are equal or superior to those our network affiliates provide or that achieve greater market acceptance and brand recognition than our network affiliates achieve. It is possible that new competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share from our network affiliates. Other variables that could adversely affect our network affiliates’ operations, and therefore potentially adversely effect our operations, include, without limitation: • unfavorable economic conditions, both general and relative to radio and television broadcasting and all related media industries, which may cause companies to reduce their expenditures on advertising; • unfavorable shifts in population and other demographics which may cause our network affiliates to lose customers, viewers and listeners; • an increased level of competition for advertising dollars, which may lead to lower advertising rates as our network affiliates attempt to retain customers or which may cause our network affiliates to lose customers to their competitors who offer lower rates than our network affiliates are able or willing to match; • technological changes and innovations that our network affiliates are unable to adopt or are late in adopting that offer more attractive advertising, listening or viewing alternatives than what our network affiliates currently offer, which may lead to a loss of advertising customers or to lower advertising rates; and • changes in governmental regulations and policies and actions of federal regulatory bodies which could restrict the advertising media which our network affiliates employ or restrict some or all of our customers that operate in regulated areas from using certain advertising media, or from advertising at all. Radio and television stations face increasing competition from new broadcast technologies, such as internet, broadband wireless, cable television and satellite television and radio, and new consumer products, such as portable digital audio players and personal digital video recorders. These new technologies and alternative media platforms compete with radio and television stations for audience share and advertising revenue, and in the case of some products, allow listeners and viewers to avoid traditional commercial advertisements. We are unable to predict the effect such technologies and related services and products will have on the radio and television broadcasting industry, but the capital expenditures required for us to implement such technologies could be substantial and other companies employing such technologies could compete with our radio and television affiliates. Potential consolidation of radio and television stations in the markets in which we operate and will operate in the future may result in reduction of our negotiating leverage for Affiliate Contracts and, subsequently, may increase costs and risk of loss with respect to our Affiliate Contracts. The continued financial success of our business is largely dependent upon our ability to maintain Affiliate Contracts with radio and television stations in Australia, Canada, the United Kingdom and any other market into which we may expand our operations in the future. If radio and television stations in the markets in which we operate consolidate, a broadcaster may determine that it is in its best interest to produce a product similar to ours internally and terminate our Affiliate Contract, subsequently eliminating the supply of commercial advertising inventory that we receive from such broadcaster. In addition, consolidation in the industry will result in fewer station owners who may then be able to negotiate with increased leverage for Affiliate Contracts. Further, consolidation may result in our entering into fewer Affiliate Contracts, each comprising a larger number of stations and constituting a greater percentage of our base of contracts. Subsequent to any consolidation, the loss of any one Affiliate Contract may have a much greater impact on the results of our operations. Consolidation in the industry and its potential effects could result in a significant decline in our revenues or increase in our expenses, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and negatively impact our business prospects. The price of our common stock could decline as a result. 13 Table of Contents The loss of Austereo Pty Limited or Australian Radio Network Pty Limited as one of our network affiliates in Australia would significantly decrease the amount of our commercial advertising inventory, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our stock price. Austereo, one of our network affiliates, is the largest radio broadcaster in Australia and, as of June 30, 2008, provided us with approximately 22% of the Australian radio commercial advertising inventory (approximately 30% of such inventory from stations in our five largest Australian markets). When sold to advertisers, this radio commercial advertising inventory accounts for a material amount of our Australian revenues. Effective July 1, 2008, we entered into a four year agreement under which we which we provide regularly-scheduled radio traffic reports to and receive radio traffic report and radio news report inventory from ten Australian radio stations operated by Austereo in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth. ARN, a large radio broadcaster in Australia, provided us approximately 21% of our Australian radio commercial advertising inventory (approximately 26% of the inventory in our five largest Australian markets) as of June 30, 2008. When sold to advertisers, this radio commercial advertising inventory accounts for a material amount of our Australian revenues. This inventory is provided under a three year agreement effective January 2006 to provide traffic reporting services to eleven ARN stations in Sydney, Canberra, Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide and a 26 month agreement effective December 2006 to acquire news radio commercial advertising inventory from eight ARN stations in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide. Effective July 1, 2008, we entered into a four year agreement to provide traffic services that superseded the agreement that was scheduled to end December 2008 for the same radio stations as the previous contract. In addition, via various joint ventures, Austereo and ARN operate four radio stations in Canberra and Newcastle that account for approximately an additional 4% of our commercial advertising inventory in Australia. If we are unable to retain Austereo and/or ARN as a network affiliate, the amount of our radio commercial advertising inventory would decrease significantly. As a result, we would likely experience a corresponding or greater decrease in revenues from sales of our radio commercial advertising inventory, which may be compounded by the decrease in value of our Australian advertising network as a whole due to the reduction in our Australian audience reach. Should this occur, it would likely have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and negatively impact our business prospects and the price of our common stock could decline as a result. The loss of Corus Entertainment, Inc. as one of our network affiliates in Canada would significantly decrease the amount of our commercial advertising inventory in Canada, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our stock price. Corus Entertainment, Inc. (“Corus”), one of our Canadian network affiliates, is one of the largest radio broadcasters in Canada and its radio stations comprise over half of our affiliate network stations (excluding suburban regional stations) in Canada. Corus currently provides us with approximately 73% of the Canadian radio commercial advertising inventory we receive (excluding suburban regional stations). We have entered into an Affiliate Contract pursuant to which we will provide radio traffic reports to these stations for a three-year period commencing with respect to each station on the date we began providing services to such station (which was between December 2005 and April 2006). Either party could have terminated the agreement 18 months after the commencement of services by giving six months notice. The window to terminate the contract has passed so the contract will terminate between December 2008 and April 2009 unless renewed. If Corus were to not renew our agreement, and we were unable to replace their stations as network affiliates with comparable stations, we would have no network affiliates in several of our markets and would have a significantly reduced presence in terms of amount of commercial advertising inventory and audience delivery in the remaining markets. If this were to occur, it would be difficult for us to become profitable in Canada which would likely have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and negatively impact our business prospects and the price of our common stock could decline as a result. Our business is subject to risks based on our compliance with multiple legal and regulatory regimes due to our international operations. We conduct business in multiple international markets and, as a result, face added expenses related to the engagement of legal, accounting and other experts in each country in which we currently operate or may operate in the future. In addition, our future results could be materially adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors including, among others, regulatory, social, political, or economic conditions in a specific country or region, trade protection measures and other regulatory requirements, government spending patterns and natural disasters. We are also exposed to risks associated with changes in the laws and policies that govern foreign investments in countries where we have operations as well as, to a lesser extent, changes in United States laws and regulations relating to foreign trade and investment. Such changes in laws, regulations and conditions could result in a significant increase in our expenses for regulatory compliance or require us to alter our operations, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and negatively impact our business prospects. The price of our common stock could decline as a result. Our revenues may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Nearly all of our expenditures will be made and nearly all of our revenues will be generated outside of the United States. However, we report our financial condition and results of operations in U.S. dollars. As a result, any fluctuation between the U.S. dollar and the currencies of the countries in which we operate will impact the amount of our revenues and expenses. If foreign currencies depreciate relative to the U.S. dollar, there will be a negative impact on the revenues we report due to such fluctuation. It is possible that the impact of currency fluctuations will result in a decrease in reported sales even though we have experienced an increase in sales when reported in the applicable foreign currency. Foreign currency exchange rates in the markets in which we operate have been subject to substantial fluctuation. For example, the exchange rates to U.S. dollars from Australian dollars applicable to our income statement data for fiscal years 2008, 2007, 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003 are approximately 0.8969, 0.7859, 0.7473, 0.7539, 0.7140, and 0.5850, respectively. Though we have determined it is not necessary and have not hedged our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate changes, we may choose to hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate changes in the future. There is no guarantee such hedging, if undertaken, will be successful. 14 Table of Contents We intend to expand into additional international markets and our inexperience in those markets increases the risk that our international expansion efforts will not be successful. We began delivering radio traffic reports to certain Canadian network affiliates in December 2005. On October 19, 2006, we formed a wholly-owned subsidiary, UK Traffic Network, to operate our business in the United Kingdom. We also intend to explore future opportunities to expand our operations into additional international markets as opportunities present themselves and as our financial resources permit. Expansion into international markets requires significant management attention and financial resources, and our ability to provide radio traffic reports profitably in Australia may not be indicative of our results in Canada, the United Kingdom or in any other country in which we may attempt to expand. Certain members of our management have experience in operating a business similar to ours in Japan. In 1999, William L. Yde III, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Dale C. Arfman, our Treasurer and Secretary among others founded Nihon (Japan) Traffic Network, a Japanese entity unrelated to us, which operated a traffic reporting service in the Japanese market (“Japan Traffic Network”). Japan Traffic Network invested significant funds in starting its Japanese operations and experienced a net loss of approximately $8 million from its inception in 1999 until January 2002, after which Japan Traffic Network ceased its operations. Gary O. Benson, another one of our directors, was a director of Japan Traffic Network. The risks and obstacles Japan Traffic Network faced in introducing operations in Japan are indicative of the types of risks and obstacles we may face generally if and when we expand into additional international markets, including: • Challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences; • increased labor costs as a result of the existence or prevalence of collective bargaining arrangements, prevailing compensation structures and other employment-related matters; • legal, legislative and regulatory restrictions; • foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the United States; • longer payment cycles in some countries; • Potentially adverse tax consequences in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we operate; • nationalization or seizure of private assets; and • higher costs associated with doing business internationally. These risks and obstacles may prevent us from operating profitably in any international market into which we attempt to expand our operations. If we attempt to expand into additional international markets but are unable to do so successfully, such a failed attempt could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, negatively impacting our business prospects and the price of our common stock. If we fail to secure adequate financing in the future, our continued growth and financial performance may suffer. Our expansion into new Australian, Canadian, United Kingdom and other international markets and continued growth of our services in these markets may require significant additional capital resources. These future capital needs are difficult to predict. We may require additional capital in order to implement an expanded business model, to take advantage of certain opportunities, including strategic alliances and potential acquisitions, or to respond to changing business conditions and unanticipated competitive pressures. Moreover, our day-to-day operations require the use of sophisticated equipment and technology. The maintenance and replacement of such equipment requires significant expenditures. In addition, the development of Mobile Traffic Networks’ mobile phone applications could require significant amounts of capital in order to pursue the opportunity, with no guarantee of future profitability. Since the date of our initial public offering in March 2006, we have used approximately $14.2 million of the $19.1 million of the net proceeds there from as of June 30, 2008. In addition, the letter of intent to purchase the commercial division of UBC Media Group plc contemplates an initial payment of approximately $21.9 million with potential additional payments of up to approximately $11.0 million within a little over a year from closing of the acquisition. The payments constitute a significant majority of our approximately $37.5 million on hand at June 30, 2008. While we believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and the availability of financing under our line of credit will be sufficient to fund our operations for the next 12 months, we may need to seek additional funds either by borrowing money or issuing additional equity in order to handle unforeseen contingencies or take advantage of new opportunities. As the terms and availability of financing depend to a large degree upon general economic conditions and third parties over which we have no control, we can give no assurance that we will obtain the needed financing or that we will obtain such financing on attractive terms. In addition, our ability to obtain financing depends on a number of other factors, many of which are also beyond our control, such as interest rates and national and local business conditions. If the cost of obtaining needed equity or debt financing is too high or the terms of such equity or debt financing are otherwise unacceptable in relation to the strategic opportunity we are presented with, we may be unable to take advantage of new opportunities or take other actions that otherwise might be important to our business or prospects. Additional indebtedness could increase our leverage and make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and may limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures. Additional equity financing could result in dilution to our stockholders and the price of our common stock could decline as a result. 15 Table of Contents If we fail to manage our growth effectively by investing in the necessary infrastructure, the quality of our products and services may suffer, negatively impacting our Affiliate Contracts. Pursuant to our business plan, we have experienced, and continue to experience, rapid expansion of our business and operations which has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management, operational, technical and financial infrastructure. Since March 2005, we have introduced advertising in radio news reports and expanded TV reports in Australia, commenced operations in seven Canadian markets and acquired a competitor in Canada. In the past year in the United Kingdom, we have commenced operations of a traffic reporting service, begun providing service to the Highways Agency under the Traffic Radio contract commencing July 1, 2008 and entered into a letter of intent to acquire the largest traffic and news network in the market. Continued growth will require continued investment in personnel, facilities, technology infrastructure, and financial and management systems and controls, especially if we expand our Canadian and United Kingdom operations as currently contemplated and are successful in acquiring the commercial division of UBC Media Group plc. If we do not effectively manage our growth, the quality of our products and services could suffer, which could negatively affect our Affiliate Contracts and our relationships with network affiliates, potentially resulting in the termination of such Affiliate Contracts and a decrease in our commercial advertising inventory. Furthermore, expansion could result in our expenses increasing faster than our revenue, causing our operating margins to be adversely affected in the short-term and the long-term. If we fail to expand into new markets, we may be unable to increase our revenue and expand our profits in the future. Although our current business operations are conducted in Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom, our continued growth and expansion is dependent, in part, on our ability to establish relationships with radio and television stations in new international markets by developing new operations or acquiring existing operations. We have begun to explore opportunities for expansion into several European markets. To date, however, we have not contracted to provide services to any radio or television stations in any European market other than the United Kingdom and we have no commitments or agreements with respect to any acquisitions in these markets. Despite our interest and recent activities in exploring expansion into additional international markets, there can be no assurance that we will be able to establish operations in new markets or that we will be able to finance such acquisitions or expansion in the future. There can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate successfully any acquired business or realize any operating efficiencies from any acquisition. Further, if we engage in any such strategic transaction, we may encounter unforeseen operating challenges and expenses that may require a significant amount of management time that otherwise would be devoted to running our operations, which may harm the quality of our services and products. Aircraft operations involve risks that may not be covered by our insurance or may increase our operating costs. On February 2, 2007, a helicopter owned by Canadian Traffic Network, but operated by a third-party vendor, crashed during a maintenance flight. Although none of our employees and no personnel of our network affiliates were in the helicopter at the time of the accident, and the majority of the replacement cost was covered by the third-party vendor’s insurance, the crash is an example of how the operation of aircraft inherently involves a degree of risk. Hazards such as harsh weather, mechanical failures, pilot error, acts of terrorism, crashes, collisions and emergency safety landings may impact our business and may result in personal injury, loss of life, damage to property and equipment and suspension or reduction of operations, temporarily or indefinitely. In addition, if one of our aircraft were to crash or be involved in an accident, we could be exposed to significant tort liability and substantial unforeseen expenses. Even when such hazards do not lead to injury, loss of life or damage to property and equipment, their occurrence can result in negative publicity regarding us and our industry in the markets in which we operate. Harm to our public image may, in turn, adversely affect our ability to enter into new Affiliate Contracts or renew existing Affiliate Contracts, or to arrange for the sale of our commercial advertising inventory, any of which could negatively affect our results of operations. We attempt to protect ourselves against these losses and damage by carrying insurance, including general liability, aviation, workers’ compensation and property and casualty insurance. Our insurance coverage is subject to deductibles and maximum coverage amounts, and we do not carry insurance for all types of losses, including business interruption and terrorism. We cannot assure you that our existing coverage will be sufficient or that in the future we will be able to maintain our existing coverage or that the premiums will not increase substantially. In addition, future events, including, without limitation, terrorist activity, accidents or other events could increase our insurance rates. The loss of our liability insurance coverage or inadequate coverage from our liability insurance could result in our exposure to substantial unforeseen expenses and subsequent reductions in our earnings. In addition, we are subject to regulations and restrictions with regard to our operation of our aircraft in Australia. Violations of these regulations and restrictions could result in monetary penalties or the revocation of our air operating certificates. Although monetary penalties would have an impact on our results of operations if material in amount, the loss of our air operating certificates could result in temporary or permanent grounding of our aircraft, which would have a material adverse effect on our business operations and could result in a substantial loss of revenues or increase in expenses. The loss of the services of William L. Yde III, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, or Scott E. Cody, our Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer, or other key employees, or the failure to attract additional key individuals, could materially adversely affect our business. Our financial success is dependent to a significant degree upon the efforts of our current executive officers and other key employees. We have entered into employment agreements with William L. Yde III and Scott E. Cody. However, there can be no assurance that these individuals will continue to provide services to us. A voluntary or involuntary termination of employment by Messrs. Yde or Cody could have a material adverse effect on our business operations and negatively impact the price of our common stock. At present, we do not maintain key man life insurance policies for any of these individuals. 16 Table of Contents Our success and viability is also dependent to a significant extent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in all areas of our business, especially our management and on-air broadcasters who become recognizable personalities for the radio and television stations for whom they deliver information reports. Although our Affiliate Contracts generally prohibit stations from soliciting our employees for hire, there is no assurance that we will be able retain our most recognizable on-air broadcasters. Our employee relations and related labor costs may be impacted by collective bargaining arrangements, prevailing compensation structures or other employment-related matters. If we are unable to retain broadcasters or attract replacements for them, our network affiliates may become dissatisfied with our delivery of information reports potentially resulting in the cancellation of Affiliate Contracts, a subsequent reduction in commercial advertising inventory and the loss of advertising revenue. Our broadcasts are subject to regulatory bodies whose rules and regulations may adversely affect our business. The ownership, operation and sale of radio and television stations in Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom are subject to the jurisdiction of the Australian Communications and Media Authority (the “ACMA”), the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (the “CRTC”) and the Office of Communications (“Ofcom”), respectively. Our network affiliates in Australia, Canada and United Kingdom are subject to the regulations and policies of the ACMA, the CRTC and Ofcom, respectively, and such regulation extends to the content of the information reports and advertising spots we provide to them. Among other things, the ACMA, the CRTC and Ofcom adopt and implement regulations and policies that directly or indirectly affect the ownership, operations and sale of radio and television stations, and have the power to impose penalties for violations of their rules. In addition, our violations of the regulations or policies of the ACMA, the CRTC or Ofcom may be a breach of certain of our network affiliates’ contracts. Such regulations may adversely affect our business. We expect to be subject to similar regulations in other geographic markets we enter. Because our operating subsidiaries are organized under the laws of foreign jurisdictions and substantially all of our non-cash assets, as well as a significant portion of our cash assets, are located outside of the United States, you may have difficulties collecting on judgments rendered against us in United States courts. We are a Nevada corporation and all of our current executive officers and directors reside in the United States. However, Australia Traffic Network, Canadian Traffic Network and UK Traffic Network, our subsidiaries which conduct our current operations, are organized as an Australian proprietary company, an Alberta business corporation, and a private company limited by shares incorporated in England and Wales, respectively. Because substantially all of our non-cash assets and a significant portion of our cash assets are owned by these subsidiaries and are located outside of the United States, if stockholders or other third parties obtain judgments against us in United States courts (including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws), they may be required to seize the equity interests of our foreign subsidiaries in satisfaction of such judgments. Because these subsidiaries are foreign entities, an attempt to seize our equity interests could be frustrated by objections raised in the applicable foreign jurisdiction to the transfer of such interests. Therefore, our stockholders and others may have difficulties in enforcing and collecting upon any potential judgments rendered against us in United States courts. We have been, and will continue to be, required to implement additional finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls in order to satisfy requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the listing requirements of the NASDAQ Global Market, which will increase our costs and divert management’s time and attention. Changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the listing requirements for the NASDAQ Global Market, have imposed duties on us and on our executives, directors, attorneys and independent registered public accounting firms. In order to comply with these rules, we may hire additional personnel and have used additional outside legal, accounting and advisory services, all of which may increase our operating expenses in the future. In particular, we have incurred additional administrative expenses relating to compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires that we implement and maintain an effective system of internal controls and annual certification of our compliance by our independent auditor. Those costs were approximately $0.4 million for the year ended June 30, 2008. Based on the aggregate market value of our common stock not held by affiliates as of December 29, 2007, we became an “accelerated filer” under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as of the end of our fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. As a result, our independent registered public accounting firm was required to attest to management’s report of internal controls over financial reporting commencing for fiscal year ending June 30, 2008, which is included on page F-1 of this report. In addition, we are now required to file our annual and quarterly reports (on form 10-K and 10-Q, respectively) within 75 and 40 days, respectively, rather than 90 and 45 days previously. As a company with limited human resources, we anticipate that a significant amount of management’s time and attention will be diverted from our business to ensure compliance with these regulatory requirements. This diversion of management’s time and attention may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. During the review of our financial statements for the period ended March 31, 2007 and in the course of preparing for our follow-on offering, we determined that there were significant deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting. The first significant deficiency pertained to the accrual of station compensation expenses required under a network affiliate contract in a period prior to our entering into the contract but during which we received advertising inventory without paying station compensation. The second significant deficiency pertained to a lack of communication between certain members of our executive management team after our execution of a new network affiliate contract in Australia. While we believe we have remedied these significant deficiencies and that neither deficiency was a material weakness in our internal controls, there is no guarantee that we will not discover further significant deficiencies or material weaknesses. 17 Table of Contents In the event we identify additional significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting that we cannot remediate in a timely manner, or if we are unable to receive a positive attestation from our independent registered public accounting firm with respect to our internal controls over financial reporting when we are required to do so, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. If this occurs, the trading price of our common stock and ability to obtain any necessary equity or debt financing could suffer. In addition, in the event that our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to rely on our internal controls over financial reporting in connection with its audit of our financial statements, and in the further event that it is unable to devise alternative procedures in order to satisfy itself as to the material accuracy of our financial statements and related disclosures, we may be unable to file our periodic reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). This would likely have an adverse affect on the trading price of our common stock and our ability to secure any necessary additional equity or debt financing, and could result in the delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Global Market, which would severely limit the liquidity of our common stock. If an active trading market for shares of our common stock does not develop, the price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations and you may find it difficult to resell shares of our common stock. In general, since the effective date of our initial public offering, there has been limited trading activity in shares of our common stock. If such limited trading volume continues into the future, you may find it difficult to resell shares of our common stock publicly when you choose. Furthermore, small trading volumes generally depress market prices. As a result, you may not always be able to resell shares of our common stock publicly at the time and prices that you feel are fair or appropriate. You may not receive a positive return on your investment when you sell your shares and you may lose the entire amount of your investment. The market price of our common stock is likely to be volatile and subject to fluctuations in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors may include, without limitation: • variations in our operating results; • addition or loss of significant network affiliates or advertisers; • changes in the economies in which we provide our information services; • the departure of the Chairman of our Board of Directors or other key executive officers; • the level and quality of securities analysts’ coverage of our common stock; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • entry into new international markets and the costs associated therewith; • changes in the governmental regulations to which we will be subject in various countries; • announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; • the availability of new media for delivery of traffic and news reporting services; and • future sales of our common stock or other debt or equity securities, including sales by existing holders. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a public company’s securities, securities class action litigation has been instituted against the public company. Regardless of its outcome, should this type of litigation be instituted against us, it could result in substantial costs to us and a likely diversion of our management’s attention from our business operations. The concentration of our common stock ownership by our current management will limit your ability to influence corporate matters. As of August 31, 2008, directors and executive officers own or are able to vote in the aggregate approximately 33.1% of our issued and outstanding common stock. As such, our directors and executive officers, as stockholders, have significant influence to elect any or all of our directors, as well as influence in connection with all corporate activities, including mergers, proxy contests, tender offers or other purchases of our common stock that could give our stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price for their shares of our common stock. This concentrated control will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that you do not view as beneficial. In addition, such concentrated control could discourage others from initiating changes of control of us. In such cases, the perception of our prospects in the market may be adversely affected and the market price of our common stock may decline. 18 Table of Contents Our Board of Directors’ ability to issue “blank check” preferred stock and any anti-takeover provisions we adopt may depress the value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes 10,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock. Our Board of Directors has the power to issue any or all of the shares of such preferred stock, including the authority to establish one or more series and to fix the powers, preferences, rights and limitations of such class or series, without seeking the approval of our common stockholders, subject to certain limitations on this power under the listing requirements of the NASDAQ Global Market and the laws of the state of Nevada. The authority of our Board of Directors to issue “blank check” preferred stock, along with any future anti-takeover measures we may adopt, may, in certain circumstances, delay, deter or prevent takeover attempts and other changes in control of us not approved by our Board of Directors. As a result, our stockholders may lose opportunities to dispose of their shares of our common stock at favorable prices generally available in takeover attempts or that may be available under a merger proposal and the market price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of our stockholders may also be affected. Our common stock could be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market, which delisting could hinder your ability to obtain accurate quotations on the price of our common stock, or dispose of our common stock in the secondary market. In order to maintain our listing on the NASDAQ Global Market, our common stock must sustain a minimum bid price of at least $1.00 per share and we must satisfy the other requirements for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market. In the event our common stock is delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market and we are also unable to maintain a listing on another alternate exchange, trading in our common stock could thereafter be conducted in the NASD’s OTC Bulletin Board or in the over-the-counter markets in the so-called “pink sheets”. In such event, the liquidity of our common stock would likely be impaired, not only in the number of shares which could be bought and sold, but also through delays in the timing of the transactions, and there would likely be a reduction in our coverage by security analysts and the news media, thereby resulting in lower prices for our common stock than might otherwise prevail. Because we do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock, you must rely on stock appreciation for any return on your investment. We intend to retain any future earnings and do not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, you must rely on stock appreciation and a liquid trading market for any return on your investment in our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 