D. Risk Factors An investment in our Class A shares involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of our Class A shares could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks described below are those known to us and that we currently believe may materially affect us. Risks Relating to Our Company Our failure to successfully implement our growth strategy may adversely affect our results of operations and harm the market value of our Class A shares. We have grown rapidly over the past nine years. During the next several years we intend to continue to grow our fleet, expand our service to new markets and increase the frequency of flights to the markets we currently serve. Achieving these goals is essential in order for our business to benefit from cost efficiencies resulting from economies of scale. We expect to have substantial cash needs as we expand, including cash required to fund aircraft purchases or aircraft deposits as we add to our fleet. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient cash to fund such projects, and if we are unable to successfully expand our route system, our future revenue and earnings growth would be limited. When we commence a new route, our load factors tend to be lower than those on our established routes and our advertising and other promotional costs tend to be higher, which may result in initial losses that could have a negative impact on our results of operations as well as require a substantial amount of cash to fund. We also periodically run special promotional fare campaigns, particularly in connection with the opening of new routes. Promotional fares may have the effect of increasing load factors while reducing our yield on such routes during the period that they are in effect. The number of markets we serve and our flight frequencies depend on our ability to identify the appropriate geographic markets upon which to focus and to gain suitable airport access and route approval in these markets. There can be no assurance that the new markets we enter will provide passenger traffic that is sufficient to make our operations in those new markets profitable. Any condition that would prevent or delay our access to key airports or routes, including limitations on the ability to process more passengers, the imposition of flight capacity restrictions, the inability to secure additional route rights under bilateral agreements or the inability to maintain our existing slots and obtain additional slots, could constrain the expansion of our operations. 4 Table of Contents The expansion of our business will also require additional skilled personnel, equipment and facilities. The inability to hire and retain skilled pilots and other personnel or secure the required equipment and facilities efficiently and cost-effectively may adversely affect our ability to execute our growth strategy. In recent years, the airline industry has experienced a pilot shortage that has disproportionately affected smaller and regional carriers, such as Copa. Expansion of our markets and flight frequencies may also strain our existing management resources and operational, financial and management information systems to the point where they may no longer be adequate to support our operations, requiring us to make significant expenditures in these areas. In light of these factors, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully establish new markets or expand our existing markets, and our failure to do so could harm our business and results of operations, as well as the value of our Class A shares. Our performance is heavily dependent on economic conditions in the countries in which we do business. Passenger demand is heavily cyclical and highly dependent on global and local economic growth, economic expectations and foreign exchange rate variations. In the past, we have been negatively impacted by poor economic performance in certain emerging market countries in which we operate. Any of the following developments in the countries in which we operate could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations: • changes in economic or other governmental policies; • changes in regulatory, legal or administrative practices; or • other political or economic developments over which we have no control. Additionally, a significant portion of our revenues is derived from discretionary and leisure travel which are especially sensitive to economic downturns. A continued recessionary environment could result in a reduction in passenger traffic, and leisure travel in particular, as well as a reduction in our cargo business, and could also impact our ability to raise fares, which in turn would materially and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. The cost of refinancing our debt and obtaining additional financing for new aircraft has increased and may continue to increase. We currently finance our aircraft through bank loans and operating leases. In the past, we have been able to obtain lease or debt financing on terms attractive to us. We have obtained most of the financing for our Boeing aircraft purchases from commercial financial institutions utilizing guarantees provided by the Export-Import Bank of the United States. The Export-Import Bank provides guarantees to companies that purchase goods from U.S. companies for export, enabling them to obtain financing at substantially lower interest rates as compared to those that they could obtain without a guarantee. The Export-Import Bank does not provide similar guarantees in connection with financing for our aircraft purchases from Embraer since those aircraft are not exports from the United States. At December 31, 2009, we had $363.5 million of outstanding indebtedness that is owed to financial institutions under financing arrangements guaranteed by the Export-Import Bank. We cannot predict whether the Export-Import Bank’s credit support will continue to be available to us to fund future purchases of Boeing aircraft. The Export-Import Bank may in the future limit its exposure to Panama-based companies, to our airline or to airlines generally, or may encourage us to diversify our credit sources by limiting future guarantees. Similarly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to raise financing from past sources, or from other sources, on terms comparable to our existing financing or at all. The recent turmoil in the financial markets has tightened the availability of credit and has increased the cost of obtaining lease or debt financing. If the cost of such financing continues to increase or we are unable to obtain such financing, we may be forced to incur higher than anticipated financing costs, which could have an adverse impact on the execution of our growth strategy and business. 5 Table of Contents We are dependent on our alliance with Continental and cannot assure you that it will continue. We maintain a broad commercial and marketing alliance with Continental Airlines, Inc., or Continental, that has allowed us to enhance our network and, in some cases, offer our customers services that we could not otherwise offer. If Continental were to experience severe financial difficulties or go bankrupt, our alliance and service agreements may be terminated or we may not realize the anticipated benefits from our relationship with Continental. While Continental recorded net income of $459 million, for 2007, it has also suffered significant losses in recent years and has indicated that several factors threaten its ability to sustain profitability, including high fuel cost, the troubled global capital markets, industry competition and terrorism or other international hostilities. We cannot assure you that Continental will be able to sustain its profitability, and as a result, we may be materially and adversely affected by a deterioration of Continental’s financial condition. Since we began the alliance in 1998, we have benefited from Continental’s support in negotiations for aircraft purchases, insurance and fuel purchases, sharing of “best practices” and engineering support in our maintenance operations, and significant other intangible support. This support has assisted us in our growth strategy, while also improving our operational performance and the quality of our service. Our alliance relationship with Continental is the subject of a grant of antitrust immunity from the U.S. Department of Transportation, or DOT. If our relationship with Continental were to deteriorate, or our alliance relationship were no longer to benefit from a grant of antitrust immunity, or our alliance or services agreements were terminated, our business, financial condition and results of operations would likely be materially and adversely affected. The loss of Copa’s codesharing relationship with Continental would likely result in a significant decrease in our revenues. We also rely on Continental’s OnePass frequent flyer program that we participate in globally and on a co-branded basis in Latin America, and our business may be adversely affected if the OnePass program does not remain a competitive marketing program. In addition, our competitors may benefit from alliances with other airlines that are more extensive than our alliance with Continental. We cannot predict the extent to which we will be disadvantaged by competing alliances. Our relationship with suppliers depends in part on our alliance with Continental. During 2008, Continental Airlines announced its intention to leave the SkyTeam Alliance and join the Star Alliance, effective the fourth quarter of 2009. Due to the long-standing alliance relationship with Continental, and in order to ensure we remain fully aligned with Continental on a number of important joint initiatives, we also exited the SkyTeam Alliance during the fourth quarter of 2009. We are currently studying our global alliance options, including potentially following Continental to Star Alliance or whether to remain independent of global alliances while forming strong bilateral partnerships with multiple carriers. The absence of, or entrance into, another airline alliance could involve significant risks because we may incur costs or a loss of revenue and anticipated benefits may not be realized. These risks include an inability to join or a delay in joining another alliance due to lack of applicable approvals or difficulty in satisfying entrance requirements, including the requirement that we enter into certain bilateral agreements with each member of another alliance and/or difficulties integrating our technology processes with the other airline members of a prospective alliance. If any of these risks or costs materializes, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We operate using a hub-and-spoke model and are vulnerable to competitors offering direct flights between destinations we serve. The structure of substantially all of our current flight operations (other than those of AeroRepública) generally follows what is known in the airline industry as a “hub-and-spoke” model. This model aggregates passengers by operating flights from a number of “spoke” origins to a central hub through which they are transported to their final destinations. In recent years, many traditional hub-and-spoke operators have faced significant and increasing competitive pressure from low-cost, point-to-point carriers on routes with sufficient demand to sustain point-to-point service. A point-to-point structure enables airlines to focus on the most profitable, high-demand routes and to offer greater convenience and, in many instances, lower fares. As demand for air travel in Latin America increases, some of our competitors have initiated non-stop service between destinations that we currently serve through our Panamanian hub. Non-stop service, which bypasses our hub in Panama is more convenient and possibly less expensive, than our connecting service and could significantly decrease demand for our service to those destinations. We believe that competition from point-to-point carriers will be directed towards the largest markets that we serve and such competition is likely to continue at this level or intensify in the future. As a result, the effect of such competition on us could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 6 Table of Contents The Panamanian Aviation Act and certain of the bilateral agreements under which we operate contain Panamanian ownership requirements that are not clearly defined, and our failure to comply with these requirements could cause us to lose our authority to operate in Panama or to the international destinations we serve. Under Law No. 21 of January 29, 2003, which regulates the aviation industry in the Republic of Panama and which we refer to as the Aviation Act, “substantial ownership” and “effective control” of our airline must remain in the hands of Panamanian nationals. Under certain of the bilateral agreements between Panama and other countries pursuant to which we have the right to fly to those other countries and over their territory, we must continue to have substantial Panamanian ownership and effective control by Panamanian nationals to retain these rights. Neither “substantial ownership” nor “effective control” are defined in the Aviation Act or in the bilateral agreements, and it is unclear how a Panamanian court or, in the case of the bilateral agreements, foreign regulatory authorities might interpret these requirements. In addition, the manner in which these requirements are interpreted may change over time. We cannot predict whether these requirements would be satisfied through ownership and control by Panamanian record holders, or if these requirements would be satisfied only by direct and indirect ownership and control by Panamanian beneficial owners. At the present time, Corporación de Inverstiones Aereas, S.A., or CIASA, a Panamanian entity, is the record owner of all of our Class B voting shares, representing approximately 29.1% of our total share capital and all of the voting power of our capital stock. On November 25, 2005, the Executive Branch of the Government of Panama promulgated a decree stating that the “substantial ownership” and “effective control” requirements of the Aviation Act are met if a Panamanian citizen or a Panamanian company is the record holder of shares representing 51% or more of the voting power of the company. Although the decree has the force of law for so long as it remains in effect, it does not supersede the Aviation Act, and it can be modified or superseded at any time by a future Executive Branch decree. Additionally, the decree has no binding effect on regulatory authorities of other countries whose bilateral agreements impose Panamanian ownership and control limitations on us. We cannot assure you that the decree will not be challenged, modified or superseded in the future, that CIASA will continue to own a majority of the Class B shares, or that record ownership of a majority of our Class B shares by Panamanian entities will be sufficient to satisfy the “substantial ownership” requirement of the Aviation Act and the decree. A change in the ownership of the Class B shares or a determination by the Panamanian Civil Aviation Authority (the Autoridad de Aeronáutica Civil), which we refer to as the AAC, or a Panamanian court that “substantial” Panamanian ownership should be determined on the basis of our direct and indirect ownership, could cause us to lose our license to operate our airline in Panama. Likewise, if a foreign regulatory authority were to determine that our direct or indirect Panamanian ownership fails to satisfy the minimum Panamanian ownership requirements for a Panamanian carrier under the applicable bilateral agreement, we may lose the benefit of that agreement and be prohibited from flying to the relevant country or over its territory. Any such determination would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as on the value of the Class A shares. Our business is subject to extensive regulation which may restrict our growth or our operations or increase our costs. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we or certain aviation authorities in the countries to which we fly fail to maintain the required foreign and domestic governmental authorizations necessary for our operations. In order to maintain the necessary authorizations issued by the AAC, the Colombian Civil Aviation Administration (the Unidad Administrativa Especial de Aeronáutica Civil or UAEAC), and other corresponding foreign authorities, we must continue to comply with applicable statutes, rules and regulations pertaining to the airline industry, including any rules and regulations that may be adopted in the future. We cannot predict or control any actions that the AAC, the UAEAC, or foreign aviation regulators may take in the future, which could include restricting our operations or imposing new and costly regulations. Also, our fares are technically subject to review by the AAC, the UAEAC, and the regulators of certain other countries to which we fly, any of which may in the future impose restrictions on our fares. 7 Table of Contents We are also subject to international bilateral air transport agreements that provide for the exchange of air traffic rights between each of Panama and Colombia, and various other countries, and we must obtain permission from the applicable foreign governments to provide service to foreign destinations. There can be no assurance that existing bilateral agreements between the countries in which our airline operating companies are based and foreign governments will continue, or that we will be able to obtain more route rights under those agreements to accommodate our future expansion plans. A modification, suspension or revocation of one or more bilateral agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The suspension of our permits to operate to certain airports or destinations, the cancellation of any of our provisional routes or the imposition of other sanctions could also have a material adverse effect. Due to the nature of bilateral agreements, we can fly to many destinations only from Panama, and to certain destinations only from Colombia. We cannot assure you that a change in a foreign government’s administration of current laws and regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We plan to continue to increase the scale of our operations and revenues by expanding our presence on new and existing routes. Our ability to successfully implement this strategy will depend upon many factors, several of which are outside our control or subject to change. These factors include the permanence of a suitable political, economic and regulatory environment in the Latin American countries in which we operate or intend to operate and our ability to identify strategic local partners. The most active government regulator among the countries to which we fly is the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration, or FAA. The FAA from time to time issues directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that require significant expenditures. FAA requirements cover, among other things, security measures, collision avoidance systems, airborne windshear avoidance systems, noise abatement and other environmental issues, and increased inspections and maintenance procedures to be conducted on older aircraft. We expect to continue incurring expenses to comply with the FAA’s regulations, and any increase in the cost of compliance could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additional new regulations continue to be regularly implemented by the U.S. Transportation Security Administration, or TSA, as well. The growth of our operations to the United States and the benefits of our code-sharing arrangements with Continental are dependent on Panama’s continued favorable safety assessment. The FAA periodically audits the aviation regulatory authorities of other countries. As a result of its investigation, each country is given an International Aviation Safety Assessment, or IASA, rating. Since April 2004, IASA has rated Panama as a Category 1 jurisdiction. We cannot assure you that the government of Panama, and the AAC in particular, will continue to meet international safety standards, and we have no direct control over their compliance with IASA guidelines. If Panama’s IASA rating were to be downgraded in the future, it could prohibit us from increasing service to the United States and Continental would have to suspend the placing of its code on our flights, causing us to lose direct revenue from codesharing as well as reducing flight options to our customers. We are highly dependent on our hub at Panama City’s Tocumen International Airport. Our business is heavily dependent on our operations at our hub at Panama City’s Tocumen International Airport. Substantially all of our Copa flights either depart from or arrive at our hub. The hub-and-spoke structure of our operations is particularly dependent on the on-time arrival of tightly coordinated groupings of flights to ensure that passengers can make timely connections to continuing flights. Like other airlines, we are subject to delays caused by factors beyond our control, including air traffic congestion at airports, adverse weather conditions and increased security measures. Delays inconvenience passengers, reduce aircraft utilization and increase costs, all of which in turn negatively affect our profitability. In addition, at its current utilization level, Tocumen International Airport only has fuel storage capacity for three days worth of fuel. In the event there is a disruption in the transport of fuel to the airport, we may be forced to suspend flights until the fuel tanks can be refueled. A significant interruption or disruption in service or fuel at Tocumen International Airport could have a serious impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. Also, Tocumen International Airport provides international service to the Republic of Panama’s population of approximately 3.5 million, whereas the hub markets of our current competitors tend to be much larger, providing those competitors with a larger base of customers at their hub. 8 Table of Contents Tocumen International Airport is operated by a corporation that is owned and controlled by the government of the Republic of Panama. We depend on our good working relationship with the quasi-governmental corporation that operates the airport to ensure that we have adequate access to aircraft parking positions, landing rights and gate assignments for our aircraft to accommodate our current operations and future plans for expansion. The corporation that operates Tocumen International Airport does not enter into any formal, written leases or other agreements with airlines that govern rights to use the airport’s jetways or aircraft parking spaces. Therefore, we do not have contractual recourse in the event the airport authority assigns new capacity to competing airlines, reassigns our resources to other aircraft operators, raises fees or discontinues investments in the airport’s maintenance and expansion. Any of these events could result in significant new competition for our routes or could otherwise have a material adverse effect on our current operations or ability for future growth. We are exposed to increases in landing charges and other airport access fees and cannot be assured access to adequate facilities and landing rights necessary to achieve our expansion plans. We must pay fees to airport operators for the use of their facilities. Any substantial increase in airport charges could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Passenger taxes and airport charges have also increased in recent years, sometimes substantially. Certain important airports that we use may be privatized in the near future which is likely to result in significant cost increases to the airlines that use these airports. We cannot assure you that the airports used by us will not impose, or further increase, passenger taxes and airport charges in the future, and any such increases could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Certain airports that we serve (or that we plan to serve in the future) are subject to capacity constraints and impose slot restrictions during certain periods of the day. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain a sufficient number of slots, gates and other facilities at airports to expand our services as we are proposing to do. It is also possible that airports not currently subject to capacity constraints may become so in the future. In addition, an airline must use its slots on a regular and timely basis or risk having those slots re-allocated to others. Where slots or other airport resources are not available or their availability is restricted in some way, we may have to amend our schedules, change routes or reduce aircraft utilization. Any of these alternatives could have an adverse financial impact on us. Some of the airports to which we fly impose various restrictions, including limits on aircraft noise levels, limits on the number of average daily departures and curfews on runway use. In addition, we cannot assure you that airports at which there are no such restrictions may not implement restrictions in the future or that, where such restrictions exist, they may not become more onerous. Such restrictions may limit our ability to continue to provide or to increase services at such airports. We have significant fixed financing costs and expect to incur additional fixed costs as we expand our fleet. The airline business is characterized by high leverage, and we have a high level of indebtedness. We also have significant expenditures in connection with our operating leases and facility rental costs, and substantially all of our property and equipment is pledged to secure indebtedness. For the year ended December 31, 2009, our interest expense and aircraft and facility rental expense under operating leases aggregated $94.0 million. At December 31, 2009, approximately 49% of our total indebtedness bore interest at fixed rates, and a small portion of our lease obligations was determined with reference to LIBOR. Accordingly, our financing and rent expense will not decrease significantly if market interest rates decline. As of December 31, 2009, we had firm commitments to purchase 29 Boeing 737-Next Generation, with an aggregate manufacturer’s list price of approximately $2.3 billion. We will require substantial capital from external sources to meet our future financial commitments. The credit crisis and the related recessionary environment has increased and may continue to increase the costs of such financing. In addition, the acquisition and financing of these aircraft will likely result in a substantial increase in our leverage and fixed financing costs. A high degree of leverage and fixed payment obligations could: • limit our ability in the future to obtain additional financing for working capital or other important needs; 9 Table of Contents • impair our liquidity by diverting substantial cash from our operating needs to service fixed financing obligations; or • limit our ability to plan for or react to changes in our business, in the airline industry or in general economic conditions. Any one of these could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our existing debt financing agreements and our aircraft operating leases contain restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. Our aircraft financing loans and operating leases and the instruments governing our other indebtedness contain a number of significant covenants and restrictions that limit our ability and our subsidiaries’ ability to: • create material liens on our assets; • take certain actions that may impair creditors’ rights to our aircraft; • sell assets or engage in certain mergers or consolidations; and • engage in other specified significant transactions. In addition, several of our aircraft financing agreements require us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios and other financial and operating tests. For example, our access to certain borrowings under our aircraft financing arrangements is conditioned upon our maintenance of minimum debt service coverage and capitalization ratios. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Complying with these covenants may cause us to take actions that make it more difficult to execute successfully our business strategy, and we may face competition from companies not subject to such restrictions. Moreover, our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default or refusal by our creditors to extend certain of our loans. If we fail to successfully take delivery of or reliably operate new aircraft, our business could be harmed. In 2010, we expect to take delivery of eight Boeing 737-800 and we expect to continue to incorporate new aircraft into our fleet. The decision to incorporate new aircraft is based on a variety of factors, including the implementation of our growth strategy. Acquisition of new aircraft involves a variety of risks relating to its ability to be successfully placed into service including: • manufacturer’s delays in meeting the agreed upon aircraft delivery schedule; • difficulties in obtaining financing on acceptable terms to complete our purchase of all of the aircraft we have committed to purchase; and • the inability of new aircraft and their components to comply with agreed upon specifications and performance standards. In addition, our fleet includes 26 Embraer 190 aircraft, which is a relatively new aircraft to the industry. Although we have not had significant problems with this aircraft, we cannot predict the reliability of the Embraer aircraft as the aircraft age. If we fail to successfully take delivery of or reliably operate new aircraft, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. 10 Table of Contents If we were to determine that our aircraft, rotable parts or inventory were impaired, it would have a significant adverse effect on our operating results. We perform impairment reviews when there are particular risks of impairment or other indicators described in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, in order to determine whether we need to reduce the carrying value of our aircraft and related assets with a related charge to our earnings. In addition to the fact that the value of our fleet declines as it ages, any potential excess capacity in the airline industry, airline bankruptcies and other factors beyond our control may further contribute to the decline of the fair market value of our aircraft and related rotable parts and inventory. If such impairment does occur, we would be required under U.S. GAAP to write down these assets to their estimated fair market value through a charge to earnings. A significant charge to earnings would adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. In addition, the interest rates on and the availability of certain of our aircraft financing loans are tied to the value of the aircraft securing the loans. If those values were to decrease substantially, our interest rates may rise or the lenders under those loans may cease extending credit to us, either of which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on information technology systems, and we may become more dependent on such systems in the future. We rely upon information technology systems to operate our business and increase our efficiency. We are highly reliant on certain systems for maintenance, reservations, check-in, revenue management, accounting and cargo distribution. Other systems are designed to decrease distribution costs through Internet reservations and to maximize cargo distributions. These systems may not deliver their anticipated benefits. Also, in transitioning to new systems we may lose data or experience interruptions in service, which could harm our business. Our quarterly results can fluctuate substantially, and the trading price of our Class A shares may be affected by such variations. The airline industry is by nature cyclical and seasonal, and our operating results may vary from quarter to quarter. We tend to experience the highest levels of traffic and revenue in July and August, with a smaller peak in traffic in December and January. In general, demand for air travel is higher in the third and fourth quarters, particularly in international markets, because of the increase in vacation travel during these periods relative to the remainder of the year. We generally experience our lowest levels of passenger traffic in April and May. Given our high proportion of fixed costs, seasonality can affect our profitability from quarter to quarter. Demand for air travel is also affected by factors such as economic conditions, war or the threat of war, fare levels and weather conditions. Due to the factors described above and others described in this annual report, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be good indicators of our future performance. In addition, it is possible that in any quarter our operating results could be below the expectations of investors and any published reports or analyses regarding our company. In that event, the price of our Class A shares could decline, perhaps substantially. Our reputation and financial results could be harmed in the event of an accident or incident involving our aircraft. An accident or incident involving one of our aircraft could involve significant claims by injured passengers and others, as well as significant costs related to the repair or replacement of a damaged aircraft and its temporary or permanent loss from service. We are required by our creditors and the lessors of our aircraft under our operating lease agreements to carry liability insurance, but the amount of such liability insurance coverage may not be adequate and we may be forced to bear substantial losses in the event of an accident. Our insurance premiums may also increase due to an accident or incident affecting one of our aircraft. Substantial claims resulting from an accident in excess of our related insurance coverage or increased premiums would harm our business and financial results. Moreover, any aircraft accident or incident, even if fully insured, could cause the public to perceive us as less safe or reliable than other airlines which could harm our business and results of operations. Our business would also be significantly harmed if the public avoids flying our aircraft due to an adverse perception of the types of aircraft that we operate arising from safety concerns or other problems, whether real or perceived, or in the event of an accident involving those types of aircraft. 11 Table of Contents Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could negatively affect our net income. In 2009, approximately 71.0% of our expenses and 43.4% of our revenues were denominated in U.S. dollars. The remainder of our expenses and revenues were denominated in the currencies of the various countries to which we fly, with the largest non-dollar amount denominated in Colombian Pesos due to our acquisition of AeroRepública in April 2005. If any of these currencies decline in value against the U.S. dollar, our revenues, expressed in U.S. dollars, and our operating margin would be adversely affected. We may not be able to adjust our fares denominated in other currencies to offset any increases in U.S. dollar-denominated expenses, increases in interest expense or exchange losses on fixed obligations or indebtedness denominated in foreign currency. We currently have hedges in place with respect to some of our U.S. dollar / Colombian Peso exposure. We are also exposed to exchange rate losses, as well as gains, due to the fluctuation in the value of local currencies vis-à-vis the U.S. dollar during the period of time between the time we are paid in local currencies and the time we are able to repatriate the revenues in U.S. dollars. Although in most countries to which we fly this period is typically between one and two weeks, in Venezuela, foreign companies, including airlines, have experienced increasing delays for approvals by the Venezuelan government to repatriate funds. We have significant cash balances in Bolivars subject to Venezuelan exchange controls. In recent periods, we have experienced up to a nine month delay in repatriating funds. On January 8, 2010, the Venezuelan government announced its decision to implement new fixed exchange rates effective January 11, 2010, which resulted in a significant devaluation of the Bolivar against the U.S. dollar. As a result, we incurred losses of approximately $21 million, which will be recorded in the first quarter of 2010 in accordance with US GAAP. Given the uncertainty with respect to the exchange control regime in Venezuela, we continue to be exposed in respect of our cash balance in Venezuelan Bolivares should there be a further devaluation of the Bolivar. Our maintenance costs will increase as our fleet ages. The average age of our fleet was approximately 4.6 years as of December 31, 2009. In recent years, our fleet average age has decreased significantly, mainly as a result of AeroRepública’s fleet renewal program which has replaced older MD-80 aircraft with new Embraer-190 aircraft. In past years we have incurred a low level of maintenance expenses because most of the parts on our aircraft were still covered under multi-year warranties. As our fleet ages and these warranties expire, we expect that our maintenance costs will increase significantly, both on an absolute basis and as a percentage of our operating expenses. If we enter into a prolonged dispute with any of our employees, many of whom are represented by unions, or if we are required to increase substantially the salaries or benefits of our employees, it may have an adverse impact on our operations and financial condition. Approximately 49% of the Company’s employees belong to a labor union. There are currently five unions covering our Copa employees based in Panama: the pilots’ union; the flight attendants’ union; the mechanics’ union; the traffic attendants’ union; and a generalized union, which represents baggage handlers, aircraft cleaners, counter agents, and other non-executive administrative staff. Copa entered into collective bargaining agreements with its mechanics union in April 2009, its general union in July 2008, its pilot union in November 2007 and its flight attendants union in March 2010. Collective bargaining agreements in Panama are typically between three and four year terms. We also have union contracts with our Copa employees in Brazil and Mexico. AeroRepública is a party to collective bargaining agreements that cover all of AeroRepública’s pilots, co-pilots, and flight attendants. A strike, work interruption or stoppage or any prolonged dispute with our employees who are represented by any of these unions could have an adverse impact on our operations. These risks are typically exacerbated during periods of renegotiation with the unions. Any renegotiated collective bargaining agreement could feature significant wage increases and a consequent increase in our operating expenses. Employees outside of Panama that are not currently members of unions may also form new unions that may seek further wage increases or benefits. 12 Table of Contents Our business is labor intensive. We expect salaries, wages and benefits to increase on a gross basis, and these costs could increase as a percentage of our overall costs. If we are unable to hire, train and retain qualified pilots and other employees at a reasonable cost, our business could be harmed and we may be unable to complete our expansion plans. Our revenues depend on our relationship with travel agents and tour operators. In 2009, approximately 52% of our revenues were derived from tickets sold by travel agents or tour operators. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain favorable relationships with these ticket sellers. Our revenues could be adversely impacted if travel agents or tour operators elect to favor other airlines or to disfavor us. Our relationship with travel agents and tour operators may be affected by: • the size of commissions offered by other airlines; • changes in our arrangements with other distributors of airline tickets; and • the introduction and growth of new methods of selling tickets. We rely on third parties to provide our customers and us with facilities and services that are integral to our business. We have entered into agreements with third-party contractors to provide certain facilities and services required for our operations, such as heavy aircraft and engine maintenance; call center services; and catering, ground handling, cargo and baggage handling, or “below the wing” aircraft services. For example, at airports other than Tocumen International Airport, most of our “below the wing” aircraft services are performed by third party contractors. Overhaul maintenance and “C-checks” are handled by contractors in the United States, Panama and Costa Rica, and some line maintenance is handled at certain airports by contract workers rather than our employees. Substantially all of our agreements with third-party contractors are subject to termination on short notice. The loss or expiration of these agreements or our inability to renew these agreements or to negotiate new agreements with other providers at comparable rates could harm our business and results of operations. Further, our reliance on third parties to provide essential services on our behalf gives us less control over the costs, efficiency, timeliness and quality of those services. A contractor’s negligence could compromise our aircraft or endanger passengers and crew. This could also have a material adverse effect on our business. We expect to be dependent on such agreements for the foreseeable future and if we enter any new market, we will need to have similar agreements in place. We depend on a limited number of suppliers. We are subject to the risks of having a limited number of suppliers for our aircraft and engines. One of the elements of our business strategy is to save costs by operating a simplified aircraft fleet. Copa currently operates the Boeing 737-700/800 Next Generation aircraft powered by CFM 56-7B engines from CFM International and the Embraer 190, powered by General Electric CF 34-10 engines. AeroRepública currently operates the Embraer 190, powered by General Electric CF 34-10 engines . We currently intend to continue to rely exclusively on these aircraft for the foreseeable future. If any of Boeing, Embraer, CFM International or GE Engines were unable to perform their contractual obligations, or if we are unable to acquire or lease new aircraft or engines from aircraft or engine manufacturers or lessors on acceptable terms, we would have to find another supplier for a similar type of aircraft or engine. If we have to lease or purchase aircraft from another supplier, we could lose the benefits we derive from our current fleet composition. We cannot assure you that any replacement aircraft would have the same operating advantages as the Boeing 737-700/800 Next Generation or Embraer 190 aircraft that would be replaced or that Copa could lease or purchase engines that would be as reliable and efficient as the CFM 56-7B and GE CF34-10. We may also incur substantial transition costs, including costs associated with retraining our employees, replacing our manuals and adapting our facilities. Our operations could also be harmed by the failure or inability of Boeing, Embraer, CFM International or GE Engines to provide sufficient parts or related support services on a timely basis. 13 Table of Contents Our business would be significantly harmed if a design defect or mechanical problem with any of the types of aircraft or components that we operate were discovered that would ground any of our aircraft while the defect or problem was corrected, assuming it could be corrected at all. The use of our aircraft could be suspended or restricted by regulatory authorities in the event of any actual or perceived mechanical or design problems. Our business would also be significantly harmed if the public began to avoid flying with us due to an adverse perception of the types of aircraft that we operate stemming from safety concerns or other problems, whether real or perceived, or in the event of an accident involving those types of aircraft or components. We also depend on limited suppliers with respect to supplies obtained locally, such as our fuel supply. These local suppliers may not be able to maintain the pace of our growth and our requirements may exceed their capabilities, which may adversely affect our ability to execute our growth strategy We are dependent on key personnel. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management team and key financial, commercial, operating and maintenance personnel. In particular, we depend on the services of our senior management team, including Pedro Heilbron, our Chief Executive Officer, Victor Vial, our Chief Financial Officer, Daniel Gunn, our Chief Operating Officer, and Joe Mohan our Vice-President of Commercial and Planning. Competition for highly qualified personnel is intense, and the loss of any executive officer, senior manager or other key employee without adequate replacement or the inability to attract new qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition. Our operations in Cuba, which has been identified by the U.S. Department of State as a state sponsor of terrorism, may adversely affect our reputation and the liquidity and value of our Class A shares. We currently operate approximately eight daily departures to and from Cuba which provide passenger, cargo and mail transportation service. For the year ended December 31, 2009, our transported passengers to and from Cuba represented approximately 5.4% of our total passengers carried. Our operating revenues from Cuban operations during the year ended December 31, 2009 represented approximately 7.1% of our total consolidated operating revenues for such year. Our assets located in Cuba are insignificant. Cuba has been identified by the United States government as a state sponsor of terrorism, and the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) administers and enforces economic and trade sanctions based on U.S. foreign policy against Cuba and certain other targeted foreign countries. You should understand that our overall business reputation may suffer as a result of our activities in Cuba, particularly if such activities grow in the future. Certain U.S. states have recently enacted legislation regarding investments by pension funds and other retirement systems in companies, such as ours, that have business activities with Cuba and other countries that have been identified as terrorist-sponsoring states. Similar legislation may be pending in other states. As a result, pension funds and other retirement systems may be subject to new reporting requirements and other burdensome restrictions with respect to investments in companies such as ours. Pension funds and similar institutions represent an important source of demand for our shares, and if their willingness to invest in and hold our shares were to diminish as a result of any such requirements or restrictions, or for any other reason, it would likely have a material adverse effect on the liquidity and value of our Class A shares. Risks Relating to the Airline Industry The airline industry is highly competitive. We face intense competition throughout our route network. Overall airline industry profit margins are low and industry earnings are volatile. Airlines compete in the areas of pricing, scheduling (frequency and flight times), on-time performance, frequent flyer programs and other services. Some of our competitors, such as American Airlines, have larger customer bases and greater brand recognition in the markets we serve outside Panama, and some of our competitors have significantly greater financial and marketing resources than we have. Airlines based in other countries may also receive subsidies, tax incentives or other state aid from their respective governments, which are not provided by the Panamanian government. The commencement of, or increase in, service on the routes we serve by existing or new carriers could negatively impact our operating results. Likewise, competitors’ service on routes that we are targeting for expansion may make those expansion plans less attractive. 14 Table of Contents We compete with a number of other airlines that currently serve some of the routes on which we operate, including American Airlines, Delta Air Lines, Mexicana and Avianca-Taca Limited (“Avianca-Taca”), the entity created by the recent merger of two of our competitors, Aerovías del Continente Americano S.A. (“Avianca”) and Grupo Taca. AeroRepública’s results of operations, in particular, are highly sensitive to competitive conditions in the Colombian domestic air travel market. AeroRepública’s rapid growth in recent years occurred during a period in which the domestic market leader, Avianca, experienced severe financial difficulties that resulted in its bankruptcy and the exit from the market of several other competitors. Avianca emerged from bankruptcy with new management and an improved financial condition and recently consummated a merger with Grupo Taca. In addition, Aerovías de Integración Regional, or Aires, a low-cost carrier based in Bogotá, Colombia, has recently captured a significant portion of the domestic market in Colombia. It is therefore likely that AeroRepública will face stronger competition in the future than it has in recent years, and its prior results may not be indicative of its future performance. We must constantly react to changes in prices and services offered by our competitors to remain competitive. The airline industry is highly susceptible to price discounting, particularly because airlines incur very low marginal costs for providing service to passengers occupying otherwise unsold seats. Carriers use discount fares to stimulate traffic during periods of lower demand to generate cash flow and to increase market share. Any lower fares offered by one airline are often matched by competing airlines, which often results in lower industry yields with little or no increase in traffic levels. Price competition among airlines in the future could lead to lower fares or passenger traffic on some or all of our routes, which could negatively impact our profitability. We cannot assure you that any of our competitors will not undercut our fares in the future or increase capacity on routes in an effort to increase their respective market share. Although we intend to compete vigorously and to assert our rights against any predatory conduct, such activity by other airlines could reduce the level of fares or passenger traffic on our routes to the point where profitable levels of operations could not be maintained. Due to our smaller size and financial resources compared to several of our competitors, we may be less able to withstand aggressive marketing tactics or fare wars engaged in by our competitors should such events occur. We may face increasing competition from low-cost carriers offering discounted fares. Traditional hub-and-spoke carriers in the United States and Europe continue to face substantial and increasing competitive pressure from low-cost carriers offering discounted fares. The low-cost carriers’ operations are typically characterized by point-to-point route networks focusing on the highest demand city pairs, high aircraft utilization, single class service and fewer in-flight amenities. As evidenced by the operations of Gol Intelligent Airlines or Gol, which continues to grow both in Brazil as well as in other South American countries, Spirit, which serves Latin America from Fort Lauderdale, JetBlue, which flies from Orlando to Bogota, Aires, which recently has expanded aggressively in the domestic Colombian market and introduced flights between Bogota and Fort Lauderdale, and a number of low-cost carriers which operate within Mexico, among others, the low-cost carrier business model appears to be gaining acceptance in the Latin American aviation industry. As a result, we may face new and substantial competition from low-cost carriers in the future which could result in significant and lasting downward pressure on the fares we charge for flights on our routes. Significant changes or extended periods of high fuel costs or fuel supply disruptions could materially affect our operating results. Fuel costs constitute a significant portion of our total operating expenses, representing approximately 32.0% of our operating expenses in 2007, 38.0% in 2008 and 29.2% in 2009. Fuel prices reached record levels during the middle of 2008, but decreased substantially in the second half of 2008. Jet fuel costs have been subject to wide fluctuations as a result of increases in demand, sudden disruptions in and other concerns about global supply, as well as market speculation. Both the cost and availability of fuel are subject to many economic, political, weather, environmental and other factors and events occurring throughout the world that we can neither control nor accurately predict, including international political and economic circumstances such as the political instability in major oil-exporting countries in Latin America, Africa and Asia. If a future fuel supply shortage were to arise as a result of production curtailments by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, a disruption of oil imports, supply disruptions resulting from severe weather or natural disasters, the continued unrest in Iraq, other conflicts in the Middle East or otherwise, higher fuel prices or further reductions of scheduled airline services could result. We cannot assure you that we would be able to offset any increases in the price of fuel by increasing our fares. 15 Table of Contents We routinely enter into derivative contracts for a portion of our fuel needs to protect against rising fuel costs, although in recent periods, we have entered into such arrangements on a much more selective basis. These agreements provide only limited protection against increases in the price of fuel or our counterparties’ inability to perform under the agreement, can be less effective during volatile market conditions and may be unavailable to us in the event of a deterioration in our financial condition. Because of the large volume of jet fuel that we consume in our business, entering into derivative contracts for any substantial portion of our future projected fuel requirements is costly. Fuel prices are likely to increase above their current levels and may do so in the near future, which could materially and negatively affect our operating results. Conversely, declines in fuel prices (such as those experienced in the last six months of 2008) may increase the costs associated with our fuel hedging arrangements to the extent we have entered into swaps or collars. Swaps and put options sold as part of a collar obligate us to make payments to the counterparty upon settlement of the contracts if the price of the commodity hedged falls below the agreed upon amount. Historically, declining crude oil prices have resulted in our being required to post significant amounts of collateral to cover potential amounts owed with respect to swap and collar contracts that have not yet settled. Additionally, lower fuel prices may result in lower fares through the reduction or elimination of fuel surcharges. We may experience difficulty finding, training and retaining pilots and other employees. In previous years, the airline industry has experienced a sustained pilot shortage caused by extraordinary air traffic growth in the Persian Gulf, China and India; the rise of lucrative low-cost carriers in Europe and Asia; and the sustained recovery of the U.S. airlines from the industry recession caused by the September 11 terrorist attacks. This worldwide shortage of pilots disproportionately affects smaller and regional carriers. Our need for qualified pilots has caused us to hire a substantial number of non-Panamanian national pilots. We cannot assure you that we will continue to attract or obtain government approvals for such pilots. Although the current recessionary environment has provided some relief to the pilot shortage, as economies improve, the inability to attract and retain pilots may adversely affect our growth strategy by limiting our ability to add new routes or increase the frequency of existing routes. The airline industry is a labor-intensive business. We employ a large number of flight attendants, maintenance technicians and other operating and administrative personnel. The airline industry has, from time to time, experienced a shortage of qualified personnel. In addition, as is common with most of our competitors, we may, from time to time, face considerable turnover of our employees. Should the turnover of employees sharply increase, our training costs will be significantly higher. We cannot assure you that we will be able to recruit, train and retain the qualified employees that we need to continue our current operations or replace departing employees. A failure to hire and retain qualified employees at a reasonable cost could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because the airline industry is characterized by high fixed costs and relatively elastic revenues, airlines cannot quickly reduce their costs to respond to shortfalls in expected revenue. The airline industry is characterized by low gross profit margins, high fixed costs and revenues that generally exhibit substantially greater elasticity than costs. The operating costs of each flight do not vary significantly with the number of passengers flown and, therefore, a relatively small change in the number of passengers, fare pricing or traffic mix could have a significant effect on operating and financial results. These fixed costs cannot be adjusted quickly to respond to changes in revenues and a shortfall from expected revenue levels could have a material adverse effect on our net income. 16 Table of Contents Airline bankruptcies could adversely affect the industry. In recent years, several air carriers have sought to reorganize under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code, including some of our competitors such as Avianca and Delta. Successful completion of such reorganizations could present us with competitors with significantly lower operating costs derived from labor, supply and financing contracts renegotiated under the protection of the Bankruptcy Code. In addition, air carriers involved in reorganizations have historically undertaken substantial fare discounting in order to maintain cash flows and to enhance continued customer loyalty. Such fare discounting could further lower yields for all carriers, including us. Further, the market value of aircraft would likely be negatively impacted if a number of air carriers seek to reduce capacity by eliminating aircraft from their fleets. Our business may be adversely affected by downturns in the airline industry caused by terrorist attacks, war or outbreak of disease, which may alter travel behavior or increase costs. Demand for air transportation may be adversely affected by terrorist attacks, war or political and social instability, epidemics, natural disasters and other events. Any of these events in the markets in which we operate could have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, these types of situations could have a prolonged effect on air transportation demand and on certain cost items. The terrorist attacks in the United States on September 11, 2001, for example, have had a severe and lasting adverse impact on the airline industry. Airline traffic in the United States fell dramatically after the attacks and decreased less severely throughout Latin America. The repercussions of September 11th, including increases in security, insurance and fear of similar attacks, continue to affect us and the airline industry. Our revenues depend on the number of passengers traveling on our flights. Therefore, any future terrorist attacks or threat of attacks, whether or not involving commercial aircraft, any increase in hostilities relating to reprisals against terrorist organizations, including an escalation of military involvement in the Middle East, or otherwise and any related economic impact could result in decreased passenger traffic and materially and negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Public health threats, such as the H1N1 flu virus, the bird flu, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARs) and other highly communicable diseases, affect travel behavior and could have a material adverse effect on the industry. During the second quarter of 2009, passenger traffic was negatively affected as a result of the H1N1 flu crisis, which resulted in lower overall demand for intra-Latin America travel, especially to and from Mexico. Although we quickly responded to the crisis by reducing capacities to Mexico and the H1NI flu situation normalized by July 2009, we cannot assure you that the adverse effects of future outbreaks of H1NI or other such health threats will be able to be similarly contained. It is impossible to determine if and when such health threats, or perceived health threats, will occur, when the resulting adverse effects will abate and the extent to which they will further decrease demand for air travel, which could materially and negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increases in insurance costs and/or significant reductions in coverage would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Following the 2001 terrorist attacks, premiums for insurance against aircraft damage and liability to third parties increased substantially, and insurers could reduce their coverage or increase their premiums even further in the event of additional terrorist attacks, hijackings, airline crashes or other events adversely affecting the airline industry abroad or in Latin America. In the future, certain aviation insurance could become unaffordable, unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage that are insufficient to comply with the levels of insurance coverage required by aircraft lenders and lessors or applicable government regulations. While governments in other countries have agreed to indemnify airlines for liabilities that they might incur from terrorist attacks or provide low-cost insurance for terrorism risks, the Panamanian government has not indicated an intention to provide similar benefits to us. Increases in the cost of insurance may result in both higher fares and a decreased demand for air travel generally, which could materially and negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to comply with applicable environmental regulations could adversely affect our business. Our operations are covered by various local, national and international environmental regulations. These regulations cover, among other things, emissions to the atmosphere, disposal of solid waste and aqueous effluents, aircraft noise and other activities that result from the operation of aircraft. Future operations and financial results may vary as a result of such regulations. Compliance with these regulations and new or existing regulations that may be applicable to us in the future could increase our cost base and adversely affect our operations and financial results. 17 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Panama and our Region We are highly dependent on conditions in Panama and, to a lesser extent, in Colombia. A substantial portion of our assets are located in the Republic of Panama, a significant proportion of our customers are Panamanian, and substantially all of Copa’s flights operate through our hub at Tocumen International Airport. As a result, we depend on economic and political conditions prevailing from time to time in Panama. Panama’s economic conditions in turn highly depend on the continued profitability and economic impact of the Panama Canal. Control of the Panama Canal and many other assets were transferred from the United States to Panama in 1999 after nearly a century of U.S. control. Political events in Panama may significantly affect our operations. Although the Panamanian government is democratically elected and the Panamanian political climate is currently stable, Panamanian elections were held in 2009, we cannot assure you that current conditions will continue under the new administration. During the second quarter of 2005, we completed our acquisition of AeroRepública. Most of AeroRepública’s scheduled operations are conducted within Colombia. As a result, AeroRepública’s results of operations are highly sensitive to macroeconomic and political conditions prevailing in Colombia, which have been highly volatile and unstable in recent decades. Although the state of affairs in Colombia has been steadily improving since 2002, continuing guerrilla activity, among other factors, could cause a renewal of political unrest and instability in Colombia, which could adversely affect AeroRepública’s financial condition and results of operations. The threat of terrorist attacks could impose additional costs on us, including enhanced security to protect our aircraft, facilities and personnel against possible attacks as well as increased insurance premiums. As a result, we may encounter significant unanticipated problems at AeroRepública, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Although the economies of Panama and Colombia fared comparatively well during 2009, many of the countries we serve are experiencing either economic slowdowns or recessions, which have translated into a weakening of demand and may have an adverse effect on our business in the future. According to International Monetary Fund estimates, both the Panamanian and Colombian economies are expected to grow in 2010, however, if either economy experiences a sustained recession, or significant political disruptions, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and negatively affected. Any increase in the taxes we or our shareholders pay in Panama or the other countries where we do business could adversely affect the value of our Class A shares. We cannot assure you that we will continue to pay taxes at the current rate. Our provision for income taxes was $17.1 million, $17.5 million and $19.6 million in the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009, which represented an effective income tax rate of 9.6%, 12.8% and 7.5% for the respective periods. We are subject to local tax regulations in each of the jurisdictions where we operate, the great majority of which are related to the taxation of income. In some of the countries to which we fly, we do not pay any income taxes, because we do not generate income under the laws of those countries either because they do not have income tax or because of treaties or other arrangements those countries have with Panama. In the remaining countries, we pay income tax at a rate ranging from 25% to 34% of income. Different countries calculate income in different ways, but they are typically derived from sales in the applicable country multiplied by our net margin or by a presumed net margin set by the relevant tax legislation. The determination of our taxable income in certain countries is based on a combination of revenues sourced to each particular country and the allocation of expenses of our operations to that particular country. The methodology for multinational transportation company sourcing of revenue and expense is not always specifically prescribed in the relevant tax regulations, and therefore is subject to interpretation by both us and the respective taxing authorities. Additionally, in some countries, the applicability of certain regulations governing non-income taxes and the determination of our filing status are also subject to interpretation. We cannot estimate the amount, if any, of potential tax liabilities that might result if the allocations, interpretations and filing positions used by us in our tax returns were challenged by the taxing authorities of one or more countries. If taxes were to increase, our financial performance and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Due to the competitive revenue environment, many increases in fees and taxes have been absorbed by the airline industry rather than being passed on to the passenger. Any such increases in our fees and taxes may reduce demand for air travel and thus our revenues. 18 Table of Contents We have elected to calculate our Panamanian income tax with the gross tax method based on Article 121 of the Panamanian Fiscal Code (as defined in “Item 5A. Operating Results – Subsequent Events”), under which income for international transportation companies is calculated based on a territoriality method that determines gross revenues earned in Panama by applying the percentage of miles flown within the Panamanian territory against total revenues. Under this method, loss carry-forwards cannot be applied to offset tax liability. If the Panamanian tax authorities do not agree with our methods of allocating revenues, we may be subject to additional tax liability. Dividends from our Panamanian subsidiaries, including Copa, are separately subject to a 10% percent withholding tax on the portion attributable to Panamanian sourced income and a 5% withholding tax on the portion attributable to foreign sourced income. Airlines in Panama are currently not subject to any taxes relating specifically to the airline industry other than the 4% tax collected from passengers on tickets sold in Panama for the benefit of the Panamanian Tourism Bureau. In addition, Law 8 of 2010 (the “Tax Reform”), which modifies material sections of the Panamanian Fiscal Code was approved and became effective on March 15, 2010. As a result of this reform package, the airline industry will be subject to higher tax rates than it has paid in the past. We estimate, however, that we will benefit from certain tax credits in respect to taxes paid in foreign jurisdictions in 2010 and on a going-forward basis. We, therefore, anticipate that our effective tax rate for the immediate future will remain within the historical range of the past five years. As a result, we do not believe this tax reform is likely to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Any future change in the Panamanian tax law increasing the taxes payable by us could have materially adverse effects on our business, financial condition and result of operations. Political unrest and instability in Latin American countries to which we fly may adversely affect our business and the market price of our Class A shares. While geographic diversity helps to reduce our exposure to risks in any one country, we operate primarily within Latin America and are subject to a full range of risks associated with our international operations. These risks may include unstable political or economic conditions, lack of well-established or reliable legal systems, exchange controls and other limits on our ability to repatriate earnings and changeable legal and regulatory requirements. Although conditions throughout Latin America vary from country to country, our customers’ reactions to developments in Latin America generally may result in a reduction in passenger traffic, which could materially and negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our Class A shares. Risks Relating to Our Class A Shares The value of our Class A shares may be adversely affected by ownership restrictions on our capital stock and the power of our Board of Directors to take remedial actions to preserve our operating license and international route rights by requiring sales of certain outstanding shares or issuing new stock. Pursuant to the Panamanian Aviation Act, as amended and interpreted to date, and certain of the bilateral treaties affording us the right to fly to other countries, we are required to be “substantially owned” and “effectively controlled” by Panamanian nationals. Our failure to comply with such requirements could result in the loss of our Panamanian operating license and/or our right to fly to certain important countries. Our Articles of Incorporation (Pacto Social) give special powers to our independent directors to take certain significant actions to attempt to ensure that the amount of shares held in us by non-Panamanian nationals does not reach a level which could jeopardize our compliance with Panamanian and bilateral ownership and control requirements. If our independent directors determine it is reasonably likely that we will be in violation of these ownership and control requirements and our Class B shares represent less than 10% of our total outstanding capital stock (excluding newly issued shares sold with the approval of our independent directors committee), our independent directors will have the power to issue additional Class B shares or Class C shares with special voting rights solely to Panamanian nationals. See “10B. Memorandum and Articles of Association—Description of Capital Stock.” 19 Table of Contents If any of these remedial actions are taken, the trading price of the Class A shares may be materially and adversely affected. An issuance of Class C shares could have the effect of discouraging certain changes of control of Copa Holdings or may reduce any voting power that the Class A shares enjoy prior to the Class C share issuance. There can be no assurance that we would be able to complete an issuance of Class B shares to Panamanian nationals. We cannot assure you that restrictions on ownership by non-Panamanian nationals will not impede the development of an active public trading market for the Class A shares, adversely affect the market price of the Class A shares or materially limit our ability to raise capital in markets outside of Panama in the future. Our controlling shareholder has the ability to direct our business and affairs, and its interests could conflict with yours. All of our Class B shares, representing approximately 29.1% of the economic interest in Copa Holdings and all of the voting power of our capital stock, are owned by CIASA. CIASA is in turn controlled by a group of Panamanian investors. In order to comply with the Panamanian Aviation Act, as amended and interpreted to date, we have amended our organizational documents to modify our share capital so that CIASA will continue to exercise voting control of Copa Holdings. CIASA will not be able to transfer its voting control unless control of our company will remain with Panamanian nationals. CIASA will maintain voting control of the company so long as CIASA continues to own a majority of our Class B shares and the Class B shares continue to represent more than 10% of our total share capital (excluding newly issued shares sold with the approval of our independent directors committee). Even after CIASA ceases to own the majority of the voting power of our capital stock, CIASA may continue to control our Board of Directors indirectly through its control of our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. As the controlling shareholder, CIASA may direct us to take actions that could be contrary to your interests and under certain circumstances CIASA will be able to prevent other shareholders, including you, from blocking these actions. Also, CIASA may prevent change of control transactions that might otherwise provide you with an opportunity to dispose of or realize a premium on your investment in our Class A shares. The Class A shares will only be permitted to vote in very limited circumstances and may never have full voting rights. The holders of Class A shares have no right to vote at our shareholders’ meetings except with respect to corporate transformations of Copa Holdings, mergers, consolidations or spin-offs of Copa Holdings, changes of corporate purpose, voluntary delistings of the Class A shares from the NYSE, the approval of nominations of our independent directors and amendments to the foregoing provisions that adversely affect the rights and privileges of any Class A shares. The holders of Class B shares have the power, subject to our supplemental agreement with Continental, to elect the Board of Directors and to determine the outcome of all other matters to be decided by a vote of shareholders. Class A shares will not have full voting rights unless the Class B shares represent less than 10% of our total capital stock (excluding newly issued shares sold with the approval of our independent directors committee). See “Item 10B. Memorandum and Articles of Association—Description of Capital Stock.” We cannot assure you that the Class A shares will ever carry full voting rights. Substantial future sales of our Class A shares by CIASA could cause the price of the Class A shares to decrease. CIASA owns all of our Class B shares, and those Class B shares will be converted into Class A shares if they are sold to non-Panamanian investors. In connection with our initial public offering in December 2005, Continental and CIASA reduced their ownership of our total capital stock from 49% to approximately 27.3% and from 51% to approximately 29.2%, respectively. In a follow-on offering in June 2006, Continental further reduced its ownership of our total capital stock from 27.3% to 10.0%. In May 2008, we, and CIASA, released Continental from its standstill obligations and they sold down their remaining shares in the public market. CIASA holds registration rights with respect to a significant portion of its shares pursuant to a registration rights agreement entered into in connection with our initial public offering. The market price of our Class A shares could drop significantly if CIASA further reduces its investment in us, other significant holders of our shares sell a significant number of shares or if the market perceives CIASA or other significant holders intend to sell them. 20 Table of Contents Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights, and as a result you may experience substantial dilution upon future issuances of stock by us. Under Panamanian law and our organizational documents, holders of our Class A shares are not entitled to any preemptive rights with respect to future issuances of capital stock by us. Therefore, unlike companies organized under the laws of many other Latin American jurisdictions, we will be free to issue new shares of stock to other parties without first offering them to our existing shareholders. In the future we may sell Class A or other shares to persons other than our existing shareholders at a lower price than the shares already sold, and as a result you may experience substantial dilution of your interest in us. You may not be able to sell our Class A shares at the price or at the time you desire because an active or liquid market for the Class A shares may not continue. Our Class A shares are listed on the NYSE. During the three months ended December 31, 2009, the average daily trading volume for our Class A shares as reported by the NYSE was approximately 252,084 shares. We cannot predict whether an active liquid public trading market for our Class A shares will be sustained. Active, liquid trading markets generally result in lower price volatility and more efficient execution of buy and sell orders for our investors. The liquidity of a securities market is often affected by the volume of shares publicly held by unrelated parties. Our Board of Directors may, in its discretion, amend or repeal our dividend policy. You may not receive the level of dividends provided for in the dividend policy or any dividends at all. Our Board of Directors has adopted a dividend policy that provides for the payment of dividends to shareholders in an amount ranging from 10% to 20% of our annual consolidated net income. Our Board of Directors may, in its sole discretion and for any reason, amend or repeal this dividend policy. On February 10, 2010, for example, our Board of Directors amended the dividend policy to increase the level of dividends to its current range. Our Board of Directors may decrease the level of dividends provided for in this dividend policy or entirely discontinue the payment of dividends. Future dividends with respect to shares of our common stock, if any, will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions, business opportunities, provisions of applicable law and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant. See “Item 8A. Consolidated Financial Statements and Other Financial Information—Dividend Policy.” To the extent we pay dividends to our shareholders, we will have less capital available to meet our future liquidity needs. Our Board of Directors has adopted a dividend policy that provides for the payment of dividends to shareholders in amounts ranging from 10% to 20% of our annual consolidated net income. Our Board of Directors has also reserved the right to amend the dividend policy, or pay dividends in excess of the level circumscribed in the dividend policy. The aviation industry has cyclical characteristics, and many international airlines are currently experiencing difficulties meeting their liquidity needs. Also, our business strategy contemplates substantial growth over the next several years, and we expect such growth will require a great deal of liquidity. To the extent that we pay dividends in accordance with, or in excess of, our dividend policy, the money that we distribute to shareholders will not be available to us to fund future growth and meet our other liquidity needs. Our Articles of Incorporation impose ownership and control restrictions on our company which ensure that Panamanian nationals will continue to control us and that these restrictions operate to prevent any change of control or some transfers of ownership in order to comply with the Aviation Act and other bilateral restrictions. Under the Panamanian Aviation Act, as amended and interpreted to date, Panamanian nationals must exercise “effective control” over the operations of the airline and must maintain “substantial ownership.” These phrases are not defined in the Aviation Act itself and it is unclear how a Panamanian court would interpret them. The share ownership requirements and transfer restrictions contained in our Articles of Incorporation, as well as the dual-class structure of our voting capital stock are designed to ensure compliance with these ownership and control restrictions. See “Item 10B. Memorandum and Articles of Association—Description of Capital Stock.” These provisions of our Articles of Incorporation may prevent change of control transactions that might otherwise provide you with an opportunity to realize a premium on your investment in our Class A shares. They also ensure that Panamanians will continue to control all the decisions of our company for the foreseeable future. 21 Table of Contents The protections afforded to minority shareholders in Panama are different from and more limited than those in the United States and may be more difficult to enforce. Under Panamanian law, the protections afforded to minority shareholders are different from, and much more limited than, those in the United States and some other Latin American countries. For example, the legal framework with respect to shareholder disputes is less developed under Panamanian law than under U.S. law and there are different procedural requirements for bringing shareholder lawsuits, including shareholder derivative suits. As a result, it may be more difficult for our minority shareholders to enforce their rights against us or our directors or controlling shareholder than it would be for shareholders of a U.S. company. In addition, Panamanian law does not afford minority shareholders as many protections for investors through corporate governance mechanisms as in the United States and provides no mandatory tender offer or similar protective mechanisms for minority shareholders in the event of a change in control. While our Articles of Incorporation provide limited rights to holders of our Class A shares to sell their shares at the same price as CIASA in the event that a sale of Class B shares by CIASA results in the purchaser having the right to elect a majority of our board, there are other change of control transactions in which holders of our Class A shares would not have the right to participate, including the sale of interests by a party that had previously acquired Class B shares from CIASA, the sale of interests by another party in conjunction with a sale by CIASA, the sale by CIASA of control to more than one party, or the sale of controlling interests in CIASA itself. Developments in Latin American countries and other emerging market countries may cause the market price of our Class A shares to decrease. The market value of securities issued by Panamanian companies may be affected to varying degrees by economic and market conditions in other countries, including other Latin American and emerging market countries. Although economic conditions in emerging market countries outside Latin America may differ significantly from economic conditions in Panama and Colombia or elsewhere in Latin America, investors’ reactions to developments in these other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value of securities of Panamanian issuers or issuers with significant operations in Latin America. As a result of economic problems in various emerging market countries in the past (such as the Asian financial crisis of 1997, the Russian financial crisis of 1998 and the Argentine financial crisis in 2001), investors have viewed investments in emerging markets with heightened caution. Crises in other emerging market countries may hamper investor enthusiasm for securities of Panamanian issuers, including our shares, which could adversely affect the market price of our Class A shares. 