Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Any of the risks discussed below, as well as any of the other risks described in this Form 10-K, could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Industry Risks Continued adverse changes in the economy may adversely affect consumer spending, which could negatively impact our business. The specialty retail apparel industry is heavily dependent on discretionary consumer spending patterns. Our business is sensitive to numerous factors that affect discretionary consumer income, including adverse general 16 Table of Contents economic conditions, changes in employment trends and levels of unemployment, increases in interest rates, weather, a significant rise in energy or food prices or other events or actions that may lead to a decrease in consumer confidence or a reduction in discretionary income. In addition, in a period of inflationary pricing, increased fuel costs may discourage customers from driving to our retail and outlet locations, reducing store traffic and possibly sales. Continued declines in consumer spending on apparel and accessories, especially for extended periods, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Reduced pricing by competitors in the retail apparel industry has affected and may continue to affect our results of operations. Increasing pressure on retailers to reduce prices of their products as a result of the overall reduction in consumer spending, as well as increased competition, the increased outsourcing of product manufacturing to countries with lower labor costs, trade liberalization, consolidation among retailers and lower barriers to entry for manufacturers and retailers has and may continue to force us to lower prices, or make us unable to sell our higher-priced products, in which case our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer materially. If we cannot compete effectively in the apparel industry our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. The retail apparel industry is highly competitive. We compete with a variety of retailers, including national department store chains, national and international specialty apparel chains, outdoor specialty stores, apparel catalog businesses, sportswear marketers and online apparel businesses that sell similar lines of merchandise. Our outlet stores compete with the outlet stores of other specialty retailers as well as with other value-oriented apparel chains and national department store chains. Our competitors may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies or adapt to changes in customer requirements more quickly, devote greater resources to the design, sourcing, distribution, marketing and sale of their products, or generate greater national brand recognition than we can. If we are unable to overcome these potential competitive disadvantages or effectively place our products relative to our competition, our business and results of operations will suffer. The retail apparel business is seasonal in nature, and any decrease in our sales or margins during these periods could have a material adverse effect on our Company. The retail apparel industry is highly seasonal, with the highest levels of sales during the fourth quarter. Our profitability depends, to a significant degree, on the sales generated during these peak periods. Any decrease in sales or margins during these periods, whether as a result of increased promotional activity because of economic conditions, poor weather or other factors, could have a material adverse effect on our Company. The apparel industry is characterized by rapidly changing customer demands and our failure to anticipate and respond to changing customer style preferences in a timely manner will adversely affect our business and financial condition. The apparel industry is characterized by rapidly changing customer preferences and quickly emerging and dissipating trends. In a recessionary economy, consumers may allocate spending to novelty apparel instead of basic apparel components. Failure to effectively gauge the direction of customer preferences and anticipate trends, or convey a compelling brand image or price/value equation to consumers may result in lower sales and resultant lower gross margins to sell inventory. We typically place orders with our vendors approximately six months prior to the initial sale date, and so can make only limited modifications to orders in response to changes in customer preferences. If we are unable to successfully identify changes in customer preferences or anticipate customer demand from season to season, we could experience lower sales, excess inventories, higher mark-downs and decreased earnings. 17 Table of Contents Results of operations could be hurt if new trade restrictions are imposed or existing trade restrictions become more burdensome. Trade restrictions, including increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes, safeguards and customs restrictions against apparel items could increase the cost or reduce the supply of apparel available to us or may require us to modify our current business practices, any of which could hurt our business, financial condition and results of operations. Safeguard quotas imposed by the U.S. on categories of goods and apparel imported from China may impact our sourcing patterns and costs. We also cannot predict whether any of the countries in which our merchandise is currently manufactured or may be manufactured in the future will be subject to additional trade restrictions imposed by the U.S., Canadian and foreign governments, nor can we predict the likelihood, type or effect of any such restrictions. Risks Relating to Our Business If we cannot revitalize the Eddie Bauer brand, our business will be adversely impacted. Our net merchandise sales declined during each of the fiscal years between 2000 and 2006 and again in the second half of 2008, and comparable store sales also decreased in 25 of the 36 quarters between 2000 and 2008. As we discuss in “Item 1. Business—2008 and Beyond: Five Key Initiatives,” we have taken, and intend to take, strategic, operational and management actions designed to reconnect with our customers and revitalize Eddie Bauer as a premium quality brand. However, we cannot be assured that the changes we have made, or the additional actions we are taking or intend to take, will be successful, or that such actions and changes will not result in the following: • our desire to attract additional male customers may result in the loss of existing female customers; • our addition of higher priced merchandise may drive away existing customers and may not attract new customers; • our efforts to increase traffic and sales in our retail and outlet stores may not be cost effective; or • our marketing efforts to promote our revitalized brand may not be effective. If we cannot successfully revitalize the Eddie Bauer brand, or if the revitalization takes longer than anticipated, our business and our financial condition and results of operations will be adversely impacted. If customer purchases lag behind our expectations, we may experience decreased net merchandise sales, negative comparable store sales and higher operating losses. We depend on a high volume of mall traffic, the lack of which will hurt our business. Many of our stores are located in shopping malls. Sales at these stores are derived, in part, from the volume of traffic in those malls. Traffic in malls where we have stores have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by the economic downturn, the closing of other retail tenants and competition from non-mall retailers and other malls where we do not have stores, which will hurt our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face numerous challenges as a result of our involvement in the Spiegel bankruptcy process which, if not addressed, could have a material adverse effect on our business. As a result of our involvement in the Spiegel bankruptcy proceedings, we were required to take actions that we might not otherwise have taken as a stand-alone company, including: • borrowing significant amounts (including $300 million under our previous senior secured term loan, which has been refinanced to our $225 million Amended Term Loan and $75 million in Notes, and amounts from time to time under our senior secured revolving credit facility of up to $150 million) to 18 Table of Contents pay Spiegel creditors, and as a result becoming subject to the restrictions and limitations imposed by the lenders under our financing facilities; • assuming ongoing obligations associated with Spiegel’s former pension and other retirement plans; and • inheriting support facilities that were not optimally suited for our operations and, as a result, having to bear the overhead costs of, sell, streamline, consolidate or relocate some of these facilities. We have been operating as a stand-alone entity since June 2005 and face additional costs and risks as a result. We must continue to streamline the back-end distribution and logistics operations we inherited and reduce costs throughout our organization. If we are unable to do so successfully, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In addition, with the downturn in the economy, the investment return on the assets in the Spiegel pension plan transferred to us may decline to a level that will require us to contribute additional cash to bring the asset value to levels required by law. If we cannot attract and retain qualified senior and middle management and motivate our retail associates, our business will be adversely affected. Our success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to retain the services of members of our senior management team in the long term through attractive incentive arrangements. Our current depressed stock price, plus the limited amount of available stock in our equity plan, make incentive packages more difficult to achieve. Competition for qualified personnel is intense. We may not be able to retain current employees or attract new employees due to uncertainty relating to our future business prospects. The loss, for any reason, of the services of key individuals or the failure to attract and retain additional members of our management team could have a material adverse effect on us. Our success also depends on our ability to hire, motivate and retain other qualified associates who reflect and enhance our customer-service oriented culture, including our store managers, sales associates and staff at our call centers. If we are unable to hire and keep enough qualified associates, especially during our peak season, our customer service levels and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be hurt. We rely on a few sourcing agents for a substantial majority of our sourcing needs, the loss of which could adversely affect our business. In 2008, on a purchase value basis, we sourced approximately 76% of our products through EBI. Our sourcing agreement with EBI is on a commission basis and is automatically renewed each year unless terminated by either party upon one year written notice. If the agreement with EBI were terminated or if the terms of the agreement were modified substantially and we did not find an appropriate replacement in a timely manner and on reasonable terms, or if we were unable to transition the EBI functions in-house in a cost-effective manner, we could experience shortages or delays in receipt of our merchandise, higher costs and quality control issues. In addition, if vendors from whom we purchase require advance letters of credit to continue to manufacture our goods, or refuse to manufacture due to concern about our ability to pay for products, our available product sources may become limited, impacting our store inventory and sales. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, some of our competitors may perform all or a larger portion of their sourcing functions in-house, and, as a result, have lower sourcing costs than we do. We obtain licensing royalties and rely on our licensees to maintain the value of our brand. We have licensing arrangements with various consumer product manufacturers and retailers. In 2008, $12.8 million of our revenues were derived from licensing royalties. Although we have control over the appearance and quality of our licensees’ products and advertising, we rely on our licensees for, among other things, operational and financial controls over their businesses. Our licensing revenues are based upon the net sales of the licensed products as reported by our licensees. When the net sales information for the licensed products is not available to 19 Table of Contents us prior to issuance of our financial statements, we are required to make estimates of our licensing revenues. Revenues related to our licensing agreements vary if actual net sales for the licensed products are different than our estimates. Licensing revenues declined in fiscal 2008 from the prior year due to lower sales of licensed products, driven in part by several licensees filing for bankruptcy protection. Continuation or acceleration of the decline in consumer spending in 2009 and beyond could result in further loss of existing licenses, which could adversely affect our licensing revenue. If we are not successful in improving profitability of our retail and outlet stores, our business will be adversely affected. The growth of sales in our stores is significantly dependent on our ability to operate stores in desirable locations with capital investments and lease costs that allow us to earn a reasonable return. Desirable locations and configurations for reasonable costs may not be available to us because of our inability to improve sales per square foot. If our catalogs are not successful, it could adversely affect all of our sales channels. The success of our catalogs is a key factor in our efforts to revitalize our brand, as we believe the catalogs reinforce our brand image and drive sales across in our retail and outlet stores and direct channels. If we are unable to continue to attract customers to our catalogs by providing them with appealing and extensive product offerings, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. Factors that may impact our ability to maintain and grow our catalog sales include: customer acceptance of our catalog presentations; increases in paper and printing costs; postage rates and other costs relating to our catalog mailings; a failure in the timing of catalog deliveries; and the accuracy, breadth and depth of the information contained in our customer database so we can correctly analyze our mailing lists and maximize our customer targeting efforts. Our website operations may not be successful, which could adversely affect our business. The success of our website is subject to risks and uncertainties associated with the Internet, including changing customer preferences and buying trends relating to Internet usage, changes in required technology interfaces, increasing costs of placing advertisements and keywords online, website downtime and other technical failures, changes in applicable U.S. and foreign regulation, security breaches and consumer privacy concerns. Our failure to successfully respond to these risks and uncertainties might hurt our website sales and damage our brand’s reputation. Internet sales may also be affected since, unlike some of our online competitors, we collect a sales tax on Internet sales. If we cannot negotiate new leases or renewals of existing leases on reasonable terms, our business will be adversely affected. Substantially all of our store locations are leased from landlords in regional malls and lifestyle centers and in metropolitan areas. As a result, each year, a portion of the locations under lease are due for renewal or renegotiation. In addition, we relocate a certain number of our store locations each year. Landlords typically evaluate the creditworthiness of a tenant and the expected sales volume of the store location in connection with the negotiation of lease terms. Weakening of our financial performance or financial profile, including our sales per square foot, or potential covenant defaults on our debt instruments could ultimately lead landlords to conclude that we do not meet their criteria for risk and return, and result in our inability to negotiate leases on reasonable terms or renew leases. Our processing, storage and use of personal data could give rise to liabilities as a result of governmental regulation, conflicting legal requirements or differing views of personal privacy rights. Our collection and processing of transactions through our sales channels require us to receive and store a large volume of personally identifiable data. This type of data is subject to legislation and regulation in various 20 Table of Contents jurisdictions. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if the laws and regulations are expanded, implemented or interpreted to require changes to our business practices and methods of data collection. In addition, as personal and legal issues relating to privacy and data protection become more sensitive, we may become exposed to potential liabilities with respect to the data we collect, manage and process, and may incur legal costs if our information security policies and procedures are not effective or if we are required to defend our methods of collection, processing and storage of personal data. A significant disruption in back-end operations could adversely affect our business. Some of our back-end systems, particularly relating to information technology, are dated and are an amalgamation of multiple applications, rather than one overarching state-of-the-art system. If we are unable to effectively streamline these systems and update them where necessary, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any significant interruption in our back-end operations resulting from systems failures, associate grievances, natural disasters, inclement weather, accidents or other unforeseen events could lead to delays or other lapses in service relating to the distribution of merchandise to our stores and to our customers, or in the processing of returns from our customers. Any delays or lapses in service could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we cannot protect our trademarks and other proprietary intellectual property rights, our business may be adversely affected. We use many trademarks and product designs in our business. As appropriate, we rely on the trademark and copyright laws to protect these designs even if not formally registered as marks, copyrights or designs. We believe these trademarks and product designs are important to our competitive position and success. Third parties may sue us for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights. The party claiming infringement might have greater resources than we do to pursue its claims, and we could be forced to incur substantial costs and devote significant management resources to defend the litigation. Moreover, if the party claiming infringement were to prevail, we could be forced to discontinue the use of the related trademark, patent or design and/or pay significant damages, or to enter into expensive royalty or licensing arrangements with the prevailing party, assuming these royalty or licensing arrangements are available at all on an economically feasible basis, which they may not be. Additionally, we may experience difficulty in effectively limiting unauthorized use of our trademarks and product designs worldwide. Unauthorized use of our trademarks or other proprietary rights may cause significant damage to our brand name and our ability to effectively represent ourselves to our agents, suppliers, vendors, licensees and/or customers. While we intend to enforce our trademark and other proprietary rights, there can be no assurance that we are adequately protected in all countries or that we will prevail when defending our trademark and proprietary rights. If our independent vendors do not use ethical business practices or comply with applicable laws and regulations, our business and our reputation could be harmed. While our Global Labor Practices Program and our vendor operating guidelines promote ethical business practices, we do not control our independent vendors or their business practices. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee their compliance with our guidelines. Violation of labor or other laws by our vendors, or the divergence of a vendor’s labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the U.S. could materially hurt our reputation, which can impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unseasonable or severe weather conditions may adversely impact our net merchandise sales and our operating results. Our business is adversely affected by unseasonal weather conditions. Sales of certain seasonal apparel items, specifically our outerwear and sweaters, are dependent in part on the weather and may decline in years in 21 Table of Contents which weather conditions do not favor the use of these products. Further, sales of our spring and summer products, which traditionally consist of lighter clothing, are adversely impacted by cool or wet weather. In addition, severe weather events typically lead to temporarily reduced traffic at malls where most of our stores are located. Severe weather events may impact our ability to supply our stores, deliver orders to our customers and staff our stores and call centers. We may be subject to significant liability if we are required to recall any product or should any of our products cause injury or death. If the use of any of our products causes, or is alleged to have caused, an injury we may become subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused injury or death could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our corporate and brand image. Under certain circumstances, we may be required to recall products, leading to a material adverse effect on our business. Even if a situation does not necessitate a recall, product liability claims might be asserted against us. A product liability judgment against us or a product recall could have a material adverse effect on our business or consolidated financial results. Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act over financial reporting may not be effective in future periods, as a result of past or future identified weaknesses in internal controls. In preparing our financial statements in prior years, management identified weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that adversely affected our ability to initiate, authorize, record, process, or report external financial data reliably in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. We have corrected such weaknesses but if we fail to identify or are unable to adequately remediate future weaknesses, or if recent reductions in workforce create new weaknesses due to under staffing, investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and reliability of our financial statements, which would cause the market price of our stock to decline and could lead to stockholder litigation. Risks Relating to Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations Our substantial amount of debt may limit the cash flow available for our operations and place us at a competitive disadvantage. In connection with the Plan of Reorganization, we and our subsidiaries entered into a $300 million senior secured term loan agreement, which has since been restated and reduced to $225 million, of which $193 million was outstanding at January 3, 2009, and a $150 million senior secured revolving credit facility. We also have outstanding $75 million principal amount of 5.25% senior convertible notes. As a result, we have, and will continue to have, a substantial amount of debt. Due to the economic decline in 2008, our concern about our ability to meet our term loan covenants increased substantially, and led us to negotiate and execute an amendment to provide covenant relief through 2009. Our term loan facility requires that we comply with a substantial number of covenants and conditions related to our operations and financial performance. Under the First Amendment to our Amended Term Loan (“First Amendment”) (see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Sources of Liquidity”), we have agreed to pay, as consideration for the First Amendment, 300 basis points in cash, with the payment of 200 of the 300 basis points deferred into the fourth quarter of 2009 and a 500 basis point payment-in-kind (“PIK”) First Amendment fee, and issue $.01 warrants exercisable for 19.9% of the Company’s common stock on a fully-diluted basis subject to adjustment for conversion of the Notes (see below), new capital infusions of less than $40 million (unless otherwise agreed to) and exercise of equity compensation grants. In addition, the interest rate on the Amended Term Loan is increased to the greater of the following: (i) for base rate loans, 4.25% plus (A) the prime rate, (B) the federal funds effective rate plus one-half of one percent, (C) a rate equal to the Eurodollar Rate for a one month interest period on such day plus 1%, or (D) 4.00%, or (ii) for 22 Table of Contents Eurodollar loans, LIBOR plus 5.25%, with LIBOR set at a minimum of 3.00% (but with a 350 basis point cap on the increase over the rate under the Amended Term Loan), which will increase the amount of cash interest we pay each year. As part of the First Amendment, we have covenanted to either: (1) retire or convert into equity securities 75% in principal value of the outstanding 5.25% convertible notes, or (2) raise $50 million in new capital, with the proceeds used to pay down the Amended Term Loan principal balance (“Convertible Note Covenant”). If we fail to do so within 90 days following execution of the First Amendment, we may obtain two 60-day extensions of the performance period, for the payment upon each extension of a 500 basis point PIK First Amendment fee and the issuance of $.01 warrants exercisable for 15% of the Company’s common stock subject to adjustment for conversion of the Notes (see below), new capital infusions of less than $40 million (unless otherwise agreed to) and exercise of equity compensation grants. If, after the 210-day period, we have not performed under the Convertible Note Covenant, we may obtain a waiver of nonperformance by the payment of another 500 basis point PIK fee. The PIK fees increase the principal amount of the Amended Term Loan, increasing our total level of debt. The warrants we are required to issue under the First Amendment could impair our ability to raise new capital to reduce our debt levels. Our level of debt requires us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest on our debt, which reduces our funds available for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; limits our flexibility in planning for or reacting to, and heighten our vulnerability to, changes or downturns in our business, the industry or in the general economy; may result in higher interest expense if interest rates increase on our floating rate borrowings; and may also prevent us from taking advantage of business opportunities as they arise or successfully carrying out expansion plans, if any. In addition, the terms of our debt contain various restrictive covenants that limit our ability to, among other things: incur additional debt; grant liens; dispose of certain property; make certain capital expenditures; and engage in sale-leaseback transactions and transactions with affiliates. We are also required to meet a fixed charge coverage ratio and a leverage ratio under our term loan and, if certain availability thresholds are not met, a fixed charge coverage ratio under our revolving credit facility. Under the First Amendment, we receive relief from our senior secured leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios through January 2, 2010. The Company’s permitted senior secured leverage ratio will increase to 6.25 to 1.00, 8.00 to 1.00, 9.00 to 1.00 and 7.75 to 1.00 as of the end of the first, second, third and fourth quarters, respectively, of 2009, and the permitted consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio will decrease to 0.900 to 1.00, 0.800 to 1.00, 0.775 to 1.00 and 0.800 to 1.00, respectively, for those quarters. The senior secured leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios will then return to the levels set forth in the Amended Term Loan unless the Company has met certain other conditions set forth in the First Amendment. If the economy has not rebounded from its recession, we may have difficulty meeting the levels of senior secured leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios set forth in the Amended Term Loan agreement, as amended. In addition, the First Amendment requires us to limit capital expenditures in each of 2009 and 2010 to $20 million, which may restrict our ability to open new stores or remodel older stores. These restrictions and covenants inhibit our operational flexibility and restrict or prohibit our ability to take actions that could be beneficial to our Company and our stockholders. This may place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors who may not be subject to similar restrictions. If the Notes do not convert or we are unsuccessful in raising $50 million in new equity under the Convertible Note Covenant, our debt load will increase by approximately $45 million from PIK fees. Our ongoing operations in a recessionary economy may not be adequate to support the increased interest rates and debt loads of the Company. The downturn in the U.S. economy, and in particular, credit markets, is expected to continue to make it more difficult for us to obtain waivers or amendments of covenant defaults, obtain extensions of our revolving line of credit, which expires in 2010, or refinance any of our existing credit facilities to more advantageous terms at reasonable costs. Inability to extend or refinance our revolving line of credit on terms acceptable to the Company will materially impact our ability to purchase inventory. Substantial increases in fees for waivers and amendments may also impair our liquidity. 23 Table of Contents We may not have sufficient available cash necessary to settle conversion of the 5.25% senior convertible notes or to purchase the notes upon a fundamental change, and our other debt may contain limitations on our ability to pay cash upon conversion or repurchase of the notes. Upon the occurrence of certain fundamental changes, including certain change of control transactions as set forth in the indenture governing the convertible notes, the Company will be required to offer to repurchase the convertible notes for cash at 100% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest and additional interest, if any, to but not including the date of repurchase. In certain events of default under the indenture, either the trustee thereunder or the holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then-outstanding convertible notes may declare 100% of the principal of the convertible notes and accrued and unpaid interest, including additional interest, to be due and payable. We may not have sufficient cash to pay the convertible notes in the event cash payment becomes required. We experience fluctuations in our quarterly comparable store sales. The success of our business depends, in part, upon our ability to increase sales at our existing stores. Our comparable store sales have been negative for the past two quarters and they may continue to be negative in the future. Various factors affect our comparable store sales, including current economic conditions and levels of consumer spending, the number of stores we open and close in any period, the general retail sales environment, changes in our merchandise, competition, customer preferences, energy prices, the timing of our releases of new merchandise and promotional events, the success of our marketing programs, the approach and timing of mark-down strategies, weather conditions and the overlapping of existing store sales by new stores in existing markets. Our ability to maintain and improve our comparable store sales results depends in large part on improving our forecasting of customer demand and preferences and adjusting our inventory levels accordingly, increasing the number of transactions in each store, selecting effective marketing techniques, providing an appropriate mix of merchandise for our broad and diverse customer base and using more effective pricing strategies. Any failure to meet the comparable store sales expectations could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock and have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Unexpected outcomes in legal proceedings could have a material adverse impact on our financial conditions. From time to time, we are a party to legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. In addition, an increasing number of cases are being filed against companies generally regarding patent violations for use of technology related to online sales or that contain class-action allegations under federal and state wage and hour laws. We estimate our exposure to these legal proceedings and establish accruals for the estimated liabilities in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Assessing and predicting the outcome of these matters involves substantial uncertainties. Although not currently anticipated by management, unexpected outcomes in these legal proceedings, or changes in management’s evaluations or predictions related to potential exposure in such suits, could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Our reorganization valuation was based in part on estimates of future performance. If actual results do not meet or exceed the projections in our long term plan, we may take additional impairment charges that could adversely affect our operating results. Our financial statements reflect the adoption of fresh start accounting under American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Statement of Position 90-7, or SOP 90-7. On our emergence from bankruptcy based on an independent valuation analysis, the Company valued certain tangible and intangible assets, such as goodwill and trademarks. The Company annually evaluates the recorded value of such assets using independent appraisals. In 2008, based on such an appraisal, the Company reduced the value of goodwill by approximately $65 million, and the value of its trademarks by $80 million, based on reductions in assumptions regarding future revenues. If future estimated results are not achieved, we may be required to further write down the value of our assets and record non-cash impairment charges which could make our earnings volatile. 24 Table of Contents We may not be able to realize the full amount of our net loss carryforwards, which could impact our financial results and available cash for debt paydown and operations. We have made certain assumptions regarding our ability to fully utilize our net loss carryforwards, including those from the time of emergence from bankruptcy, as well as losses subsequently generated. Our ability to fully and timely utilize such net loss carryforwards may be impaired if we are unable to generate sufficient taxable income or if a change of ownership, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code, subsequently occurs before we have applied the loss carryforwards described above. In 2008, we have recorded a full valuation allowance on our net operating loss carryforwards. See “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 11—Income Taxes” for further discussion. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock An active trading market for our common stock may not continue, and there can be no assurance as to the market price for our common stock. While our common stock is currently quoted on The NASDAQ Global Market, we cannot assure that an active market for our common stock will continue to exist. The market price for our common stock has been highly volatile and has been trading below $1.00 per share for several months. On October 16, 2008, NASDAQ implemented a temporary suspension of the enforcement of the minimum $1.00 bid price and the minimum market value of publicly held shares listing requirements for continued listing. NASDAQ has extended this suspension through July 19, 2009. According to NASDAQ, it will not take any action to delist a security for failing the minimum bid price or market value of publicly held shares requirements during the suspension. The compliance process is presently scheduled to be reinstated effective Monday, July 20, 2009. If after reinstatement of the compliance process our stock continues to trade for more than 30 consecutive business days below $1.00, NASDAQ may send a deficiency notice advising the Company that it has been afforded a “compliance period” of 180 calendar days to regain compliance with the applicable requirements. If we are unable to comply with the bid price requirement prior to the expiration of the 180-day compliance period, or if we cannot comply with or obtain exemptions to other NASDAQ rules for listed companies, including rules related to shareholder consent prior to issuance of certain amounts of common stock, we may transfer the trading of our securities to The NASDAQ Capital Market, so as to take advantage of the additional compliance period offered on that market, provided we meet all requirements for initial listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market, except for the bid price requirement. We received an exemption pursuant to NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4350(i) from NASDAQ’s stockholder approval requirements in connection with issuing the warrants called for by the First Amendment. There is no assurance that we can obtain shareholder approval or an exemption therefrom for further issuances of equity securities to Noteholders under the Convertible Note Covenant of the First Amendment. In order to achieve compliance with the bid price requirement, a security must maintain a closing $1.00 bid price for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. A delisting letter is issued if a company does not demonstrate compliance within the compliance period, which is subject to appeal. Delisting of our stock may result in a violation of covenants under certain of our credit facilities or a conversion trigger under our convertible note indenture. In addition, it is possible that investors who have been trading in our stock have been engaging in short-selling, which could further cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate. The trading price of our common stock could also fluctuate due to the factors discussed in this “Risk Factors” section. The trading market for our common stock also may be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our industry. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These broad market and industry factors may decrease the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. Litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. 25 Table of Contents Future issuances or sales of our securities will dilute existing shareholders and could cause our stock price to fall. We may issue securities in the future and may do so in a manner that results in substantial dilution for our existing stockholders. Under the terms of the First Amendment to our Amended Term Loan, we will be required to issue warrants exercisable for 19.9% of our common stock on a fully diluted basis as part of the First Amendment, with subsequent issuances of up to an additional 30% on a fully-diluted basis if we fail to comply with certain covenants in the Amended Term Loan related to the retirement or conversion of our Notes. Those covenants require that we retire or convert to equity securities 75% of the Notes or raise $50 million in new equity (with the net proceeds used to pay down the Amended Term Loan) within a certain period of time. The issuance of the warrants, the conversion of the Notes or securities issued to new equity investors will substantially dilute existing stockholders. These issuances could also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, we may issue debt or equity from time to time that ranks in preference to our common stock in the event of a liquidation or winding up or that is secured by an interest in some or all of our assets. Sales of common stock by existing stockholders in the public market, our issuances of new securities or debt, or the expectation that any of these events might occur could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws and Senior Officer Change in Control Compensation Benefits Plan could discourage potential acquirers and could deter or prevent a change in control. Provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation, bylaws and Senior Officer Change in Control Compensation Benefits Plan, as well as Delaware corporate law, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control. These provisions include: • our ability to issue “blank check” preferred stock; • provisions restricting stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders; • provisions that set forth advance notice procedures for meetings of stockholders; and • payments of certain bonus and severance amounts to covered employees in certain circumstances. In addition, under our Certificate of Incorporation, a person or entity who seeks to acquire 4.75% or more of our outstanding common stock, or a person or entity who already is a direct or indirect 4.75% stockholder and wishes to increase its ownership, may not acquire such shares unless it has obtained the prior written consent of our board of directors until such time as these restrictions lapse, which will be no later than January 1, 2012. This restriction does not apply to conversion of our 5.25% convertible senior notes to common stock. Our board may deny any such proposed transaction if it determines in its reasonable assessment that the proposed transaction could jeopardize realization of the full benefits of unrestricted use of our net operating loss carryovers. In accordance with our Certificate of Incorporation, any transaction in violation of these ownership restrictions will be void so that a purported transferee will not have any ownership rights with respect to any shares acquired in excess of these ownership restrictions. Therefore, a purported transferee will not be entitled to any rights as a stockholder, including voting, dividend or distribution rights, with respect to any excess shares. In addition, Eddie Bauer has the right to demand any purported transferee of excess shares to transfer to an agent of our designation its excess shares for resale by the agent or, if the excess shares have already been sold by the purported transferee, to transfer to the agent any proceeds from the sale by the purported transferee of such excess shares. These provisions may make it more difficult for other persons or entities, without the approval of our board of directors, to make a tender offer or otherwise acquire substantial amounts of our common stock, or to launch other takeover attempts that a stockholder might consider to be in such stockholder’s best interest. These provisions also may limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. 26 Table of Contents Our ability to utilize our NOLs and certain other tax attributes may be limited. As of January 3, 2009, we estimated our Federal NOLs to be approximately $124.2 million (tax affected) and our state NOLs to be approximately $14.4 million (tax affected). Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, if a corporation undergoes an “ownership change,” the corporation’s ability to use its pre-change NOLs and other pre-change tax attributes to offset its post-change income may be limited. An ownership change is generally defined as a greater than 50% change in its equity ownership by value over a three-year period. Our NOLs are currently limited under Section 382 as a result of the ownership change triggered upon our emergence from bankruptcy. We may experience a second ownership change in the future as a result of the lapse of the ownership restrictions within our Certificate of Incorporation, or as a result of conversion of our outstanding convertible notes into shares of our common stock. The issuance of warrants pursuant to the First Amendment, and the potential issuance of securities in connection with the Convertible Note Covenant, may trigger an ownership change under Section 382. If we were to trigger a second ownership change in the future as defined under Section 382, our ability to use any NOLs existing at that time could be further significantly limited. In addition, we may be unable to generate sufficient taxable income to utilize the NOLs before their expiration. Our dividend policies and other restrictions on the payment of dividends prevent the payment of dividends for the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Our ability to pay dividends depends on our receipt of cash dividends from our subsidiaries because we are a holding company. The terms of certain of our outstanding indebtedness prohibit us from paying dividends. Accordingly, investors must be prepared to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation to earn an investment return, which may never occur. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, financial conditions, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our board deems relevant. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 