D. Risk Factors An investment in our Class A shares involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of our Class A shares could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks described below are those known to us and that we currently believe may materially affect us. Risks Relating to Our Company Our failure to successfully implement our growth strategy may adversely affect our results of operations and harm the market value of our Class A shares. We have grown rapidly over the past seven years. We intend to continue to grow our fleet, expand our service to new markets and increase the frequency of flights to the markets we currently serve. Achieving these goals is essential in order for our business to benefit from cost efficiencies resulting from economies of scale. We expect to have substantial cash needs as we expand, including cash required to fund aircraft purchases or aircraft deposits as we add to our fleet. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient cash to fund such projects, and if we are unable to successfully expand our route system, our future revenue and earnings growth would be limited. When we commence a new route, our load factors tend to be lower than those on our established routes and our advertising and other promotional costs tend to be higher, which may result in initial losses that could have a negative impact on our results of operations as well as require a substantial amount of cash to fund. We also periodically run special promotional fare campaigns, particularly in connection with the opening of new routes. Promotional fares may have the effect of increasing load factors while reducing our yield on such routes during the period that they are in effect. The number of markets we serve and our flight frequencies depend on our ability to identify the appropriate geographic markets upon which to focus and to gain suitable airport access and route approval in these markets. There can be no assurance that the new markets we enter will provide passenger traffic that is sufficient to make our operations in those new markets profitable. Any condition that would prevent or delay our access to key airports or routes, including limitations on the ability to process more passengers, the imposition of flight capacity restrictions, the inability to secure additional route rights under bilateral agreements or the inability to maintain our existing slots and obtain additional slots, could constrain the expansion of our operations. 4 Table of Contents The expansion of our business will also require additional skilled personnel, equipment and facilities. The inability to hire and retain skilled pilots and other personnel or secure the required equipment and facilities efficiently and cost-effectively may adversely affect our ability to execute our growth strategy. In recent years, the airline industry has experienced a pilot shortage that has disproportionately affected smaller and regional carriers, such as Copa. Expansion of our markets and flight frequencies may also strain our existing management resources and operational, financial and management information systems to the point where they may no longer be adequate to support our operations, requiring us to make significant expenditures in these areas. In light of these factors, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully establish new markets or expand our existing markets, and our failure to do so could harm our business and results of operations, as well as the value of our Class A shares. If we fail to successfully take delivery of and operate reliably the new Embraer 190 aircraft we have agreed to purchase, our business could be harmed. In October 2004, Copa announced an order to purchase ten new Embraer 190 aircraft with options for an additional 20 new aircraft. Subsequently, Copa increased its firm orders for the Embraer 190 aircraft by exercising five of these options. Through the end of 2007, Copa had accepted delivery of 11 Embraer 190 aircraft. In March 2006, AeroRepública announced an order to purchase five new Embraer 190 aircraft with options for an additional 10 new aircraft. Since then AeroRepública has accepted delivery of five Embraer 190 aircraft, one of which has since sustained damages and has been permanently removed from operation. Acquisition of an all-new type of aircraft, such as the Embraer 190, involves a variety of risks relating to its ability to be successfully placed into service including: • difficulties or delays in obtaining the necessary certifications from the aviation regulatory authorities of the countries to which we fly; • manufacturer’s delays in meeting the agreed upon aircraft delivery schedule; • difficulties in obtaining financing on acceptable terms to complete our purchase of all of the aircraft we have committed to purchase; and • the inability of the new aircraft and its components to comply with agreed upon specifications and performance standards. Although to date we have not had any significant problems with this aircraft, we have experienced certain issues generally associated with it, including difficulties with the software that operates the Embraer avionics system. We may experience similar or other problems with the Embraer 190s that will be delivered to us which could result in increased costs or service interruptions. In addition, new aircraft, such as the Embraer 190, are generally less reliable than the more established aircraft within the fleet with which we have more experience. If we fail to successfully take delivery of, and operate reliably the new Embraer 190 aircraft, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. We are dependent on our alliance with Continental and cannot assure you that it will continue. We maintain a broad commercial and marketing alliance with Continental Airlines, Inc., or Continental, that has allowed us to enhance our network and, in some cases, offer our customers services that we could not otherwise offer. If Continental were to experience severe financial difficulties or go bankrupt, our alliance and service agreements may be terminated or we may not realize the anticipated benefits from our relationship with Continental. While Continental recorded net income of $343 and $459 million for 2006 and 2007, respectively, it suffered significant losses following September 11, 2001, and it has indicated that several factors threaten its ability to sustain profitability, including competition from low-cost carriers and carriers emerging from bankruptcy protection, high fuel cost and terrorism or other international hostilities. We cannot assure you that Continental will be able to sustain its profitability, and as a result, we may be materially and adversely affected by a deterioration of Continental’s financial condition. 5 Table of Contents Since we began the alliance in 1998, we have benefited from Continental’s support in negotiations for aircraft purchases, insurance and fuel purchases, sharing of “best practices” and engineering support in our maintenance operations, and significant other intangible support. This support has assisted us in our growth strategy, while also improving our operational performance and the quality of our service. Our alliance relationship with Continental is the subject of a grant of antitrust immunity from the U.S. Department of Transportation, or DOT. If our relationship with Continental were to deteriorate, or our alliance relationship were no longer to benefit from a grant of antitrust immunity, or our alliance or services agreements were terminated, our business, financial condition and results of operations would likely be materially and adversely affected. The loss of Copa’s codesharing relationship with Continental would likely result in a significant decrease in our revenues. We also rely on Continental’s OnePass frequent flyer program that we participate in globally and on a co-branded basis in Latin America, and our business may be adversely affected if the OnePass program does not remain a competitive marketing program. In addition, our competitors may benefit from alliances with other airlines that are more extensive than our alliance with Continental. We cannot predict the extent to which we will be disadvantaged by competing alliances. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions.” Our relationship with suppliers depends in part on our alliance with Continental. As a result of our follow-on offering in June 2006, Continental’s investment in our company diminished to approximately 10% of our total outstanding capital stock. Although Continental’s reduced participation in our company has not had an adverse effect on our relationships with suppliers, we cannot assure you that the terms of our current or future supply agreements will not be affected by this reduced participation. Continental’s economic interest in our continued success can be expected to further decline over time. In connection with our initial public offering in December 2005, Continental reduced its investment in us from 49% to approximately 27.3% of our capital stock. Through a follow-on offering in 2006, Continental further reduced its investment in us to approximately 10.0% of our capital stock. Continental may seek to monetize its remaining investment in us. Continental has certain rights pursuant to a shareholders’ agreement among Continental, Corporación de Inversiones Aéreas, S.A., or CIASA, and us, including the right to appoint one of our directors so long as our alliance agreement with Continental continues. As a result of Continental’s right to appoint one member of our board of directors and our dependence on the alliance between the airlines, Continental has the ability to exercise significant influence over us. Nevertheless, Continental’s interests will likely diverge from those of our other shareholders as Continental reduces its investment in us over time. Other than certain exclusivity provisions and a termination event for certain competitive activities contained in our alliance agreement, we do not have any non-competition agreement with Continental, and as Continental continues to reduce its economic stake in us, it may take actions that are adverse to the interests of the majority of our shareholders. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions.” We operate using a hub-and-spoke model and are vulnerable to competitors offering direct flights between destinations we serve. The structure of substantially all of our current flight operations (other than those of AeroRepública) generally follows what is known in the airline industry as a “hub-and-spoke” model. This model aggregates passengers by operating flights from a number of “spoke” origins to a central hub through which they are transported to their final destinations. In recent years, many traditional hub-and-spoke operators have faced significant and increasing competitive pressure from low-cost, point-to-point carriers on routes with sufficient demand to sustain point-to-point service. A point-to-point structure enables airlines to focus on the most profitable, high-demand routes and to offer greater convenience and, in many instances, lower fares. As demand for air travel in Latin America increases, some of our competitors have initiated non-stop service between destinations that we currently serve through our Panamanian hub. Non-stop service, which bypasses our hub in Panama is more convenient and possibly less expensive, than our connecting service and could significantly decrease demand for our service to those destinations. We believe that competition from point-to-point carriers will be directed towards the largest markets that we serve and such competition is likely to continue at this level or intensify in the future. As a result, the effect of such competition on us could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 6 Table of Contents The Panamanian Aviation Act and certain of the bilateral agreements under which we operate contain Panamanian ownership requirements that are not clearly defined, and our failure to comply with these requirements could cause us to lose our authority to operate in Panama or to the international destinations we serve. Under Law No. 21 of January 29, 2003, which regulates the aviation industry in the Republic of Panama and which we refer to as the Aviation Act, “substantial ownership” and “effective control” of our airline must remain in the hands of Panamanian nationals. Under certain of the bilateral agreements between Panama and other countries pursuant to which we have the right to fly to those other countries and over their territory, we must continue to have substantial Panamanian ownership and effective control by Panamanian nationals to retain these rights. Neither “substantial ownership” nor “effective control” are defined in the Aviation Act or in the bilateral agreements, and it is unclear how a Panamanian court or, in the case of the bilateral agreements, foreign regulatory authorities might interpret these requirements. In addition, the manner in which these requirements are interpreted may change over time. We cannot predict whether these requirements would be satisfied through ownership and control by Panamanian record holders, or if these requirements would be satisfied only by direct and indirect ownership and control by Panamanian beneficial owners. At the present time, CIASA, a Panamanian entity, is the record owner of all of our Class B voting shares, representing approximately 29.2% of our total share capital and all of the voting power of our capital stock. On November 25, 2005, the Executive Branch of the Government of Panama promulgated a decree stating that the “substantial ownership” and “effective control” requirements of the Aviation Act are met if a Panamanian citizen or a Panamanian company is the record holder of shares representing 51% or more of the voting power of the company. Although the decree has the force of law for so long as it remains in effect, it does not supersede the Aviation Act, and it can be modified or superseded at any time by a future Executive Branch decree. Additionally, the decree has no binding effect on regulatory authorities of other countries whose bilateral agreements impose Panamanian ownership and control limitations on us. We cannot assure you that the decree will not be challenged, modified or superseded in the future, that CIASA will continue to own a majority of the Class B shares, or that record ownership of a majority of our Class B shares by Panamanian entities will be sufficient to satisfy the “substantial ownership” requirement of the Aviation Act and the decree. A change in the ownership of the Class B shares or a determination by the Panamanian Civil Aviation Authority (the Autoridad de Aeronáutica Civil), which we refer to as the AAC, or a Panamanian court that “substantial” Panamanian ownership should be determined on the basis of our direct and indirect ownership, could cause us to lose our license to operate our airline in Panama. Likewise, if a foreign regulatory authority were to determine that our direct or indirect Panamanian ownership fails to satisfy the minimum Panamanian ownership requirements for a Panamanian carrier under the applicable bilateral agreement, we may lose the benefit of that agreement and be prohibited from flying to the relevant country or over its territory. Any such determination would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as on the value of the Class A shares. Our business is subject to extensive regulation which may restrict our growth or our operations or increase our costs. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we or certain aviation authorities in the countries to which we fly fail to maintain the required foreign and domestic governmental authorizations necessary for our operations. In order to maintain the necessary authorizations issued by the AAC and other corresponding foreign authorities, we must continue to comply with applicable statutes, rules and regulations pertaining to the airline industry, including any rules and regulations that may be adopted in the future. We cannot predict or control any actions that the AAC or foreign aviation regulators may take in the future, which could include restricting our operations or imposing new and costly regulations. Also, our fares are technically subject to review by the AAC and the regulators of certain other countries to which we fly, any of which may in the future impose restrictions on our fares. We are also subject to international bilateral air transport agreements that provide for the exchange of air traffic rights between Panama and various other countries, and we must obtain permission from the applicable foreign governments to provide service to foreign destinations. There can be no assurance that existing bilateral agreements between the countries in which our airline operating companies are based and foreign governments will continue, or that we will be able to obtain more route rights under those agreements to accommodate our future expansion plans. A modification, suspension or revocation of one or more bilateral agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 7 Table of Contents The suspension of our permits to operate to certain airports or destinations, the cancellation of any of our provisional routes or the imposition of other sanctions could also have a material adverse effect. In 2007, for example, our third daily frequency to Mexico City, which was under provisional permit, was not extended by the Mexican civil aviation authority. This development did not have a material adverse effect on our business, but it is indicative of the route changes to which we may be subject. Due to the nature of bilateral agreements, we can fly to many destinations only from Panama. We cannot assure you that a change in a foreign government’s administration of current laws and regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We plan to continue to increase the scale of our operations and revenues by expanding our presence on new and existing routes. Our ability to successfully implement this strategy will depend upon many factors, several of which are outside our control or subject to change. These factors include the permanence of a suitable political, economic and regulatory environment in the Latin American countries in which we operate or intend to operate and our ability to identify strategic local partners. The most active government regulator among the countries to which we fly is the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration, or FAA. The FAA from time to time issues directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that require significant expenditures. FAA requirements cover, among other things, security measures, collision avoidance systems, airborne windshear avoidance systems, noise abatement and other environmental issues, and increased inspections and maintenance procedures to be conducted on older aircraft. We expect to continue incurring expenses to comply with the FAA’s regulations, and any increase in the cost of compliance could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additional new regulations continue to be regularly implemented by the U.S. Transportation Security Administration, or TSA, as well. The growth of our operations to the United States and the benefits of our code-sharing arrangements with Continental are dependent on Panama’s continued favorable safety assessment. The FAA periodically audits the aviation regulatory authorities of other countries. As a result of its investigation, each country is given an International Aviation Safety Assessment, or IASA, rating. In May 2001, Panama’s IASA rating was downgraded from Category 1 to Category 2 due to alleged deficiencies in Panamanian air safety standards and AAC’s capability to provide regulatory oversight. As a result of this downgrade, we were prevented from offering our Copa flights to any new destinations in the United States and from certifying new aircraft for flights to the United States, and Continental was no longer able to codeshare on our flights. In April 2004, after extensive investment by the Panamanian government in the AAC and consultations among Copa, the AAC and U.S. safety officials, Panama’s IASA rating was restored to Category 1. We cannot assure you that the government of Panama, and the AAC in particular, will continue to meet international safety standards, and we have no direct control over their compliance with IASA guidelines. If Panama’s IASA rating were to be downgraded in the future, it could prohibit us from increasing service to the United States and Continental would have to suspend the placing of its code on our flights, causing us to lose direct revenue from codesharing as well as reducing flight options to our customers. We are highly dependent on our hub at Panama City’s Tocumen International Airport. Our business is heavily dependent on our operations at our hub at Panama City’s Tocumen International Airport. Substantially all of our Copa flights either depart from or arrive at our hub. The hub-and-spoke structure of our operations is particularly dependent on the on-time arrival of tightly coordinated groupings of flights to ensure that passengers can make timely connections to continuing flights. Like other airlines, we are subject to delays caused by factors beyond our control, including air traffic congestion at airports, adverse weather conditions and increased security measures. Delays inconvenience passengers, reduce aircraft utilization and increase costs, all of which in turn negatively affect our profitability. A significant interruption or disruption in service at Tocumen International Airport could have a serious impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. Also, Tocumen International Airport provides international service to the Republic of Panama’s population of approximately 3.3 million, whereas the hub markets of our current competitors tend to be much larger, providing those competitors with a larger base of customers at their hub. 8 Table of Contents Tocumen International Airport is operated by a corporation that is controlled by the government of the Republic of Panama. We depend on our good working relationship with the quasi-governmental corporation that operates the airport to ensure that we have adequate access to aircraft parking positions, landing rights and gate assignments for our aircraft to accommodate our current operations and future plans for expansion. The corporation that operates Tocumen International Airport does not enter into any formal, written leases or other agreements with airlines that govern rights to use the airport’s jetways or aircraft parking spaces. Therefore, in connection with the ongoing or future expansion of the airport, the airport authority could assign new capacity to competing airlines or could reassign resources that are currently used by us to other aircraft operators. Either such event could result in significant new competition for our routes or could otherwise have a material adverse effect on our current operations or ability for future growth. We are exposed to increases in landing charges and other airport access fees and cannot be assured access to adequate facilities and landing rights necessary to achieve our expansion plans. We must pay fees to airport operators for the use of their facilities. Any substantial increase in airport charges could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Passenger taxes and airport charges have also increased in recent years, sometimes substantially. Certain important airports that we use may be privatized in the near future which is likely to result in significant cost increases to the airlines that use these airports. We cannot assure you that the airports used by us will not impose, or further increase, passenger taxes and airport charges in the future, and any such increases could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Certain airports that we serve (or that we plan to serve in the future) are subject to capacity constraints and impose slot restrictions during certain periods of the day. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain a sufficient number of slots, gates and other facilities at airports to expand our services as we are proposing to do. It is also possible that airports not currently subject to capacity constraints may become so in the future. In addition, an airline must use its slots on a regular and timely basis or risk having those slots re-allocated to others. Where slots or other airport resources are not available or their availability is restricted in some way, we may have to amend our schedules, change routes or reduce aircraft utilization. Any of these alternatives could have an adverse financial impact on us. Some of the airports to which we fly impose various restrictions, including limits on aircraft noise levels, limits on the number of average daily departures and curfews on runway use. In addition, we cannot assure you that airports at which there are no such restrictions may not implement restrictions in the future or that, where such restrictions exist, they may not become more onerous. Such restrictions may limit our ability to continue to provide or to increase services at such airports. We have significant fixed financing costs and expect to incur additional fixed costs as we expand our fleet. The airline business is characterized by high leverage, and we have a high level of indebtedness. We also have significant expenditures in connection with our operating leases and facility rental costs, and substantially all of our property and equipment is pledged to secure indebtedness. For the year ended December 31, 2007, our interest expense and aircraft and facility rental expense under operating leases aggregated $91.9 million. At December 31, 2007, approximately 42% of our total indebtedness bore interest at fixed rates, and a small portion of our lease obligations was determined with reference to LIBOR. Accordingly, our financing and rent expense will not decrease significantly if market interest rates decline. As of December 31, 2007, we had firm commitments to purchase eight Boeing 737-Next Generation and four Embraer 190s, with an aggregate manufacturer’s list price of approximately $760.1 million. We have arranged for financing for a significant portion of the commitment relating to such aircraft and will require substantial capital from external sources to meet our remaining financial commitment. The acquisition and financing of these aircraft will likely result in a substantial increase in our leverage and fixed financing costs. A high degree of leverage and fixed payment obligations could: • limit our ability in the future to obtain additional financing for working capital or other important needs; 9 Table of Contents • impair our liquidity by diverting substantial cash from our operating needs to service fixed financing obligations; or • limit our ability to plan for or react to changes in our business, in the airline industry or in general economic conditions. Any one of these could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The cost of refinancing our debt and obtaining additional financing for new aircraft could increase significantly if the Export-Import Bank of the United States does not continue to guarantee our debt. We currently finance our aircraft through bank loans and, to a lesser extent, operating leases and local bond offerings. In the past, we have obtained most of the financing for our Boeing aircraft purchases from commercial financial institutions utilizing guarantees provided by the Export-Import Bank of the United States. The Export-Import Bank provides guarantees to companies that purchase goods from U.S. companies for export, enabling them to obtain financing at substantially lower interest rates as compared to those that they could obtain without a guarantee. The Export-Import Bank will not be able to provide similar guarantees in connection with financing for our aircraft purchases from Embraer since those aircraft are not exports from the United States. At December 31, 2007, we had $390.7 million of outstanding indebtedness that is owed to financial institutions under financing arrangements guaranteed by the Export-Import Bank. We cannot predict whether the Export-Import Bank’s credit support will continue to be available to us to fund future purchases of Boeing aircraft. The Export-Import Bank may in the future limit its exposure to Panama-based companies, to our airline or to airlines generally, or may encourage us to diversify our credit sources by limiting future guarantees. Similarly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to raise financing from past sources, or from other sources, on terms comparable to our existing financing. In addition, the ongoing uncertainty in the credit markets of the United States could tighten the availability of credit and impact our ability to obtain lease or debt financing on terms attractive to us, or at all, in the future. If we are unable to obtain financing, we may be forced to modify our aircraft acquisition plans or to incur higher than anticipated financing costs, which could have an adverse impact on the execution of our growth strategy and business. Our existing debt financing agreements and our aircraft operating leases contain restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. Our aircraft financing loans and operating leases and the instruments governing our other indebtedness contain a number of significant covenants and restrictions that limit our ability and our subsidiaries’ ability to: • create material liens on our assets; • take certain actions that may impair creditors’ rights to our aircraft; • sell assets or engage in certain mergers or consolidations; and • engage in other specified significant transactions. In addition, several of our aircraft financing agreements require us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios and other financial and operating tests. For example, our access to certain borrowings under our aircraft financing arrangements is conditioned upon our maintenance of minimum debt service coverage and capitalization ratios. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Complying with these covenants may cause us to take actions that make it more difficult to execute successfully our business strategy, and we may face competition from companies not subject to such restrictions. Moreover, our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default or refusal by our creditors to extend certain of our loans. 10 Table of Contents If we were to determine that our aircraft, rotable parts or inventory were impaired, it would have a significant adverse effect on our operating results. We perform impairment reviews when there are particular risks of impairment or other indicators described in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, in order to determine whether we need to reduce the carrying value of our aircraft and related assets with a related charge to our earnings. In addition to the fact that the value of our fleet declines as it ages, any potential excess capacity in the airline industry, airline bankruptcies and other factors beyond our control may further contribute to the decline of the fair market value of our aircraft and related rotable parts and inventory. If such impairment does occur, we would be required under U.S. GAAP to write down these assets to their estimated fair market value through a charge to earnings. A significant charge to earnings would adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. In addition, the interest rates on and the availability of certain of our aircraft financing loans are tied to the value of the aircraft securing the loans. If those values were to decrease substantially, our interest rates may rise or the lenders under those loans may cease extending credit to us, either of which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on information technology systems, and we may become more dependent on such systems in the future. We rely upon information technology systems to operate our business and increase our efficiency. We are highly reliant on certain critical systems, such as the Sceptre and Visaer systems for maintenance, the “SHARES” computer reservation and check-in system and the Airmax revenue management system. Other systems are designed to decrease distribution costs through Internet reservations and to maximize cargo distributions. These systems may not deliver their anticipated benefits. Also, in transitioning to new systems we may lose data or experience interruptions in service, which could harm our business. Our quarterly results can fluctuate substantially, and the trading price of our Class A shares may be affected by such variations. The airline industry is by nature cyclical and seasonal, and our operating results may vary from quarter to quarter. We tend to experience the highest levels of traffic and revenue in July and August, with a smaller peak in traffic in December and January. In general, demand for air travel is higher in the third and fourth quarters, particularly in international markets, because of the increase in vacation travel during these periods relative to the remainder of the year. We generally experience our lowest levels of passenger traffic in April and May. Given our high proportion of fixed costs, seasonality can affect our profitability from quarter to quarter. Demand for air travel is also affected by factors such as economic conditions, war or the threat of war, fare levels and weather conditions. Due to the factors described above and others described in this annual report, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be good indicators of our future performance. In addition, it is possible that in any quarter our operating results could be below the expectations of investors and any published reports or analyses regarding our company. In that event, the price of our Class A shares could decline, perhaps substantially. Our reputation and financial results could be harmed in the event of an accident or incident involving our aircraft. An accident or incident involving one of our aircraft could involve significant claims by injured passengers and others, as well as significant costs related to the repair or replacement of a damaged aircraft and its temporary or permanent loss from service. A short time prior to our acquisition of AeroRepública, one of its aircraft slid off of a runway in an accident without serious injuries to passengers; although, the aircraft was severely damaged and declared a total loss by its insurers. More recently, in July of 2007, one of our AeroRepública Embraer 190s overran a wet runway at Santa Marta, Colombia. The accident did not cause any serious injuries but the aircraft sustained damages causing its permanent removal from service. We are required by our creditors and the lessors of our aircraft under our operating lease agreements to carry liability insurance, but the amount of such liability insurance coverage may not be adequate and we may be forced to bear substantial losses in the event of any future accident. Our insurance premiums may also increase due to an accident or incident affecting one of our aircraft. Substantial claims resulting from an accident in excess of our related insurance coverage or increased premiums would harm our business and financial results. Moreover, any aircraft accident or incident, even if fully insured, could cause the public to perceive us as less safe or reliable than other airlines which could harm our business and results of operations. Our business would also be significantly harmed if the public avoids flying our aircraft due to an adverse perception of the types of aircraft that we operate arising from safety concerns or other problems, whether real or perceived, or in the event of an accident involving those types of aircraft. 11 Table of Contents Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could negatively affect our net income. In 2007, approximately 69% of our expenses and 40% of our revenues were denominated in U.S. dollars. The remainder of our expenses and revenues were denominated in the currencies of the various countries to which we fly, with the largest non-dollar amount denominated in Colombian Pesos. As a result of the acquisition of AeroRepública in April 2005, we have an increased exposure to the Colombian Peso. If any of these currencies decline in value against the U.S. dollar, our revenues, expressed in U.S. dollars, and our operating margin would be adversely affected. We may not be able to adjust our fares denominated in other currencies to offset any increases in U.S. dollar-denominated expenses, increases in interest expense or exchange losses on fixed obligations or indebtedness denominated in foreign currency. Copa currently does not hedge the risk of fluctuation in foreign exchange rates. AeroRepública currently has hedges in place with respect to some of its U.S. dollar / Colombian Peso exposure. Although we benefited from currency fluctuations in 2007, we are exposed to exchange rate losses, as well as gains, due to the fluctuation in the value of local currencies vis-à-vis the U.S. dollar during the period of time (typically between 1 to 2 weeks) between the time we are paid in local currencies and the time we are able to repatriate the revenues in U.S. dollars. Our maintenance costs will increase as Copa’s fleet ages and as we perform maintenance on AeroRepública’s older fleet. Because the average age of Copa’s aircraft was approximately 3.7 years as of December 31, 2007, the fleet requires less maintenance now than it will in the future. We have incurred a low level of maintenance expenses in recent years because most of the parts on Copa’s aircraft were still covered under multi-year warranties. Our maintenance costs will increase significantly, both on an absolute basis and as a percentage of our operating expenses as our fleet ages and these warranties expire. AeroRepública’s fleet is considerably older than Copa’s fleet, having an average age of 7.4 years as of December 31, 2007. The MD-80 aircraft operated by AeroRepública will likely be less reliable than Copa’s newer aircraft and can be expected to require significantly greater expenditures on maintenance, which may lead to an overall increase in our consolidated operating expenses. If we enter into a prolonged dispute with any of our employees, many of whom are represented by unions, or if we are required to increase substantially the salaries or benefits of our employees, it may have an adverse impact on our operations and cash flows. Approximately 49% of the Company’s employees belong to a labor union. There are currently five unions covering our Copa employees based in Panama: the pilots’ union; the flight attendants’ union; the mechanics’ union; the traffic attendants’ union; and a generalized union, which represents baggage handlers, aircraft cleaners, counter agents, and other non-executive administrative staff. Copa entered into new collective bargaining agreements with its general union on October 26, 2005, its flight attendants’ union on April 3, 2006 and its pilot union on November 2007. After extensive negotiations which did not lead to a mutually satisfactory resolution, Copa and the mechanics’ union entered into a government-mandated arbitration, and a collective bargaining agreement was agreed to on March 29, 2006 as a result of such arbitration proceedings. Previously, Copa has not had to resort to arbitration to resolve negotiations with its unions. Collective bargaining agreements in Panama are typically between three and four year terms. We also have union contracts with our Copa employees in Brazil and Mexico. AeroRepública is a party to collective bargaining agreements that cover all of AeroRepública’s 151 pilots and co-pilots and all of AeroRepública’s 196 flight attendants. A strike, work interruption or stoppage or any prolonged dispute with our employees who are represented by any of these unions could have an adverse impact on our operations. These risks are typically exacerbated during periods of renegotiation with the unions. Any renegotiated collective bargaining agreement could feature significant wage increases and a consequent increase in our operating expenses. Employees outside of Panama that are not currently members of unions may also form new unions that may seek further wage increases or benefits. 12 Table of Contents Our business is labor intensive. We expect salaries, wages and benefits to increase on a gross basis, and these costs could increase as a percentage of our overall costs. If we are unable to hire, train and retain qualified pilots and other employees at a reasonable cost, our business could be harmed and we may be unable to complete our expansion plans. Our investment in AeroRepública may not generate the benefits we sought when we purchased the company. In the second quarter of 2005, we purchased AeroRepública, a Colombian airline currently providing point-to-point service among 12 cities in Colombia and to Panama City. AeroRepública’s results of operations are highly sensitive to competitive conditions in the Colombian domestic air travel market. AeroRepública’s rapid growth in recent years came during a period in which the domestic market leader, Aerovías del Continente Americano S.A. (Avianca), experienced severe financial difficulties that resulted in its bankruptcy and the exit from the market of several other competitors. Avianca has emerged from bankruptcy with new management and an improved financial condition. It is therefore likely that AeroRepública will face stronger competition in the future than it has in recent years, and its prior results may not be indicative of its future performance. AeroRepública’s results of operations are significantly less profitable than those of Copa. While AeroRepública recorded net income of $9.7 million in 2007, AeroRepública has experienced loses in recent periods and may have continuing net losses in future fiscal periods. We may not be able to achieve the cost savings and other improvements we seek at AeroRepública, and our failure to do so would harm our consolidated operating margins and results of operations. Our investment in AeroRepública is subject to many risks and uncertainties that will ultimately determine whether the acquisition will continue to increase our overall profitability. See “Item 4B. Business Overview—AeroRepública.” The integration of AeroRepública into our business may require a significant amount of our management’s time and distract our management from our core operations. Although we believe that our acquisition of AeroRepública represents an attractive opportunity, substantial resources are needed to implement our plan to improve its profitability. Implementation of our plan is subject to many uncertainties and may eventually require us to dedicate a potentially significant portion of our limited management resources to this effort. Inconsistencies in standards, internal controls, procedures, policies, business cultures and compensation structures between Copa and AeroRepública, and the need to implement, coordinate and harmonize various business-specific operating procedures and systems, as well as the financial, accounting, information and other systems of Copa and AeroRepública, may result in substantial costs and may divert a substantial amount of our management’s resources from our core international operations. Diversion of Copa’s resources could materially and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our revenues depend on our relationship with travel agents and tour operators. In 2007, approximately 56% of our revenues were derived from tickets sold by travel agents or tour operators. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain favorable relationships with these ticket sellers. Our revenues could be adversely impacted if travel agents or tour operators elect to favor other airlines or to disfavor us. Our relationship with travel agents and tour operators may be affected by: • the size of commissions offered by other airlines; • changes in our arrangements with other distributors of airline tickets; and • the introduction and growth of new methods of selling tickets. 13 Table of Contents We rely on third parties to provide our customers and us with facilities and services that are integral to our business. We have entered into agreements with third-party contractors to provide certain facilities and services required for our operations, such as heavy aircraft and engine maintenance; call center services; and catering, ground handling, cargo and baggage handling, or “below the wing” aircraft services. For example, at airports other than Tocumen International Airport, all of the “below the wing” aircraft services for Copa flights are performed by contractors. AeroRepública contracts ground handling equipment in eleven of the thirteen cities it serves and has contracted labor for “below the wing” tasks in eleven of the thirteen cities. Overhaul maintenance and “C-checks” for Copa are handled by contractors in the United States, Panama and Costa Rica, and some line maintenance for Copa is handled at certain airports by contract workers rather than our employees. Substantially all of our agreements with third-party contractors are subject to termination on short notice. The loss or expiration of these agreements or our inability to renew these agreements or to negotiate new agreements with other providers at comparable rates could harm our business and results of operations. Further, our reliance on third parties to provide essential services on our behalf gives us less control over the costs, efficiency, timeliness and quality of those services. A contractor’s negligence could compromise our aircraft or endanger passengers and crew. This could also have a material adverse effect on our business. We expect to be dependent on such agreements for the foreseeable future and if we enter any new market, we will need to have similar agreements in place. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for our aircraft and engines. One of the elements of our business strategy is to save costs by operating a simplified aircraft fleet. Copa currently operates the Boeing 737-700/800 Next Generation aircraft powered by CFM 56-7B engines from CFM International and the Embraer 190, powered by General Electric CF 34-10 engines. AeroRepública currently operates the Embraer 190, powered by General Electric CF 34-10 engines and MD-80 fleet powered by Pratt & Whitney JT8D-219 engines. We currently intend to continue to rely exclusively on these aircraft for the foreseeable future. If any of Boeing, Embraer, CFM International or GE Engines were unable to perform their contractual obligations, or if we are unable to acquire or lease new aircraft or engines from aircraft or engine manufacturers or lessors on acceptable terms, we would have to find another supplier for a similar type of aircraft or engine. If we have to lease or purchase aircraft from another supplier, we could lose the benefits we derive from our current fleet composition. We cannot assure you that any replacement aircraft would have the same operating advantages as the Boeing 737-700/800 Next Generation or Embraer 190 aircraft that would be replaced or that Copa could lease or purchase engines that would be as reliable and efficient as the CFM 56-7B and GE CF34-10. We may also incur substantial transition costs, including costs associated with retraining our employees, replacing our manuals and adapting our facilities. Our operations could also be harmed by the failure or inability of Boeing, Embraer, CFM International or GE Engines to provide sufficient parts or related support services on a timely basis. Our business would be significantly harmed if a design defect or mechanical problem with any of the types of aircraft or components that we operate were discovered that would ground any of our aircraft while the defect or problem was corrected, assuming it could be corrected at all. The use of our aircraft could be suspended or restricted by regulatory authorities in the event of any actual or perceived mechanical or design problems. Our business would also be significantly harmed if the public began to avoid flying with us due to an adverse perception of the types of aircraft that we operate stemming from safety concerns or other problems, whether real or perceived, or in the event of an accident involving those types of aircraft or components. Carriers that operate a more diversified fleet are better positioned than we are to manage such events. We are dependent on key personnel. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management team and key financial, commercial, operating and maintenance personnel. In particular, we depend on the services of our senior management team, including Pedro Heilbron, our Chief Executive Officer, Victor Vial, our Chief Financial Officer, Lawrence Ganse, our Chief Operating Officer, and Daniel Gunn, our Vice-President, Planning. Competition for highly qualified personnel is intense, and the loss of any executive officer, senior manager or other key employee without adequate replacement or the inability to attract new qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents Our operations in Cuba, which has been identified by the U.S. Department of State as a state sponsor of terrorism, may adversely affect our reputation and the liquidity and value of our Class A shares. We currently operate approximately six daily departures to and from Cuba which provide passenger, cargo and mail transportation service. For the year ended December 31, 2007, our transported passengers to and from Cuba represented approximately 4.2% of our total passengers carried. Our operating revenues from Cuban operations during the year ended December 31, 2007 represented approximately 6.5% of our total consolidated operating revenues for such year. Our assets located in Cuba are insignificant. Cuba has been identified by the United States government as a state sponsor of terrorism, and the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) administers and enforces economic and trade sanctions based on U.S. foreign policy against Cuba and certain other targeted foreign countries. You should understand that our overall business reputation may suffer as a result of our activities in Cuba, particularly if such activities grow in the future. Certain U.S. states have recently enacted legislation regarding investments by pension funds and other retirement systems in companies, such as ours, that have business activities with Cuba and other countries that have been identified as terrorist-sponsoring states. Similar legislation may be pending in other states. As a result, pension funds and other retirement systems may be subject to new reporting requirements and other burdensome restrictions with respect to investments in companies such as ours. Pension funds and similar institutions represent an important source of demand for our shares, and if their willingness to invest in and hold our shares were to diminish as a result of any such requirements or restrictions, or for any other reason, it would likely have a material adverse effect on the liquidity and value of our Class A shares. Risks Relating to the Airline Industry The airline industry is highly competitive. We face intense competition throughout our route network. Overall airline industry profit margins are low and industry earnings are volatile. Airlines compete in the areas of pricing, scheduling (frequency and flight times), on-time performance, frequent flyer programs and other services. We compete with a number of other airlines that currently serve some of the routes on which we operate, including Grupo TACA, American Airlines Inc., Delta Air Lines, Mexicana and Avianca. Some of our competitors, such as American Airlines, have larger customer bases and greater brand recognition in the markets we serve outside Panama, and some of our competitors have significantly greater financial and marketing resources than we have. Airlines based in other countries may also receive subsidies, tax incentives or other state aid from their respective governments, which are not provided by the Panamanian government. The commencement of, or increase in, service on the routes we serve by existing or new carriers could negatively impact our operating results. Likewise, competitors’ service on routes that we are targeting for expansion may make those expansion plans less attractive. We must constantly react to changes in prices and services offered by our competitors to remain competitive. The airline industry is highly susceptible to price discounting, particularly because airlines incur very low marginal costs for providing service to passengers occupying otherwise unsold seats. Carriers use discount fares to stimulate traffic during periods of lower demand to generate cash flow and to increase market share. Any lower fares offered by one airline are often matched by competing airlines, which often results in lower industry yields with little or no increase in traffic levels. Price competition among airlines in the future could lead to lower fares or passenger traffic on some or all of our routes, which could negatively impact our profitability. We cannot assure you that any of our competitors will not undercut our fares in the future or increase capacity on routes in an effort to increase their respective market share. Although we intend to compete vigorously and to assert our rights against any predatory conduct, such activity by other airlines could reduce the level of fares or passenger traffic on our routes to the point where profitable levels of operations could not be maintained. Due to our smaller size and financial resources compared to several of our competitors, we may be less able to withstand aggressive marketing tactics or fare wars engaged in by our competitors should such events occur. 15 Table of Contents We may face increasing competition from low-cost carriers offering discounted fares. Traditional hub-and-spoke carriers in the United States and Europe have in recent years faced substantial and increasing competitive pressure from low-cost carriers offering discounted fares. The low-cost carriers’ operations are typically characterized by point-to-point route networks focusing on the highest demand city pairs, high aircraft utilization, single class service and fewer in-flight amenities. As evidenced by the operations of Gol Intelligent Airlines Inc., or Gol, which continues to grow both in Brazil as well as in other South American countries, Spirit, which has begun to serve Latin America from Fort Lauderdale, JetBlue, which has obtained route rights to fly from Orlando to Bogota, and a number of low-cost carriers which have recently launched or are planning to start service in Mexico, among others, the low-cost carrier business model appears to be gaining acceptance in the Latin American aviation industry. As a result, we may face new and substantial competition from low-cost carriers in the future which could result in significant and lasting downward pressure on the fares we charge for flights on our routes. Significant changes or extended periods of high fuel costs or fuel supply disruptions could materially affect our operating results. Fuel costs constitute a significant portion of our total operating expenses, representing approximately 29.9% of our operating expenses in 2005, 31.8% in 2006 and 32.0% in 2007. Our fuel prices increased significantly in 2007 and are likely to increase further. As a result, substantial increases in fuel costs may materially and adversely affect our operating results. Jet fuel costs have been subject to wide fluctuations as a result of increases in demand, sudden disruptions in and other concerns about global supply, as well as market speculation. Both the cost and availability of fuel are subject to many economic, political, weather, environmental and other factors and events occurring throughout the world that we can neither control nor accurately predict, including international political and economic circumstances such as the political instability in major oil-exporting countries in Latin America, Africa and Asia. Although we have entered into hedging agreements for a portion of our fuel needs through the first quarter of 2009 to hedge against fuel price volatility, these agreements provide only limited protection against future increases in the price of fuel, and we may discontinue such agreements in the future. Our current or future arrangements will not be adequate to protect us from further increases in the price of fuel, and fuel prices are likely to increase above their current levels and may do so in the near future. Indeed, numerous market experts and analysts have predicted that fuel prices can be expected to increase further, perhaps significantly, from their already high levels. If a future fuel supply shortage were to arise as a result of production curtailments by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, a disruption of oil imports, supply disruptions resulting from severe weather or natural disasters, the continued unrest in Iraq, other conflicts in the Middle East or otherwise, higher fuel prices or further reductions of scheduled airline services could result. Significant increases in fuel costs would materially and negatively affect our operating results. We cannot assure you that we would be able to offset any increases in the price of fuel by increasing our fares. We may experience difficulty finding, training and retaining pilots and other employees. The airline industry is currently experiencing a pilot shortage caused by extraordinary air traffic growth in the Persian Gulf, China and India; the rise of lucrative low-cost carriers in Europe and Asia; and the sustained recovery of the U.S. airlines from the industry recession caused by the September 11 terrorist attacks. This worldwide shortage of pilots disproportionately affects smaller and regional carriers. An inability to attract and retain pilots may adversely affect our growth strategy by limiting our ability to add new routes or increase the frequency of existing routes. The airline industry is a labor-intensive business. We employ a large number of flight attendants, maintenance technicians and other operating and administrative personnel. The airline industry has, from time to time, experienced a shortage of qualified personnel. In addition, as is common with most of our competitors, we may, from time to time, face considerable turnover of our employees. Should the turnover of employees sharply increase, our training costs will be significantly higher. We cannot assure you that we will be able to recruit, train and retain the qualified employees that we need to continue our current operations or replace departing employees. A failure to hire and retain qualified employees at a reasonable cost could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because the airline industry is characterized by high fixed costs and relatively elastic revenues, airlines cannot quickly reduce their costs to respond to shortfalls in expected revenue. The airline industry is characterized by low gross profit margins, high fixed costs and revenues that generally exhibit substantially greater elasticity than costs. The operating costs of each flight do not vary significantly with the number of passengers flown and, therefore, a relatively small change in the number of passengers, fare pricing or traffic mix could have a significant effect on operating and financial results. These fixed costs cannot be adjusted quickly to respond to changes in revenues and a shortfall from expected revenue levels could have a material adverse effect on our net income. 16 Table of Contents Airline bankruptcies could adversely affect the industry. Since September 11, 2001, several air carriers have sought to reorganize under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code, including some of our competitors such as Avianca and Delta. Successful completion of such reorganizations could present us with competitors with significantly lower operating costs derived from labor, supply and financing contracts renegotiated under the protection of the Bankruptcy Code. For example, Avianca emerged from bankruptcy with a significantly improved financial condition. In addition, air carriers involved in reorganizations have historically undertaken substantial fare discounting in order to maintain cash flows and to enhance continued customer loyalty. Such fare discounting could further lower yields for all carriers, including us. Further, the market value of aircraft would likely be negatively impacted if a number of air carriers seek to reduce capacity by eliminating aircraft from their fleets. Our business may be adversely affected by downturns in the airline industry caused by terrorist attacks, war or outbreak of disease, which may alter travel behavior or increase costs. Demand for air transportation may be adversely affected by terrorist attacks, war or political and social instability, epidemics, natural disasters and other events. Any of these events in the markets in which we operate could have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, these types of situations could have a prolonged effect on air transportation demand and on certain cost items. For example, the terrorist attacks in the United States on September 11, 2001 had a severe adverse impact on the airline industry. Airline traffic in the United States fell dramatically after the attacks and decreased less severely throughout Latin America. Our revenues depend on the number of passengers traveling on our flights. Therefore, any future terrorist attacks or threat of attacks, whether or not involving commercial aircraft, any increase in hostilities relating to reprisals against terrorist organizations or otherwise and any related economic impact could result in decreased passenger traffic and materially and negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The combination of continued instability in the aftermath of the Iraq war and the public’s concerns about the possibility of an outbreak of a disease that can be spread by fellow commercial air passengers (such as avian flu or Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) has continued to have a negative impact on the public’s willingness to travel by air. It is impossible to determine if and when such adverse effects will abate and whether they will further decrease demand for air travel, which could materially and negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increases in insurance costs and/or significant reductions in coverage would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Following the 2001 terrorist attacks, premiums for insurance against aircraft damage and liability to third parties increased substantially, and insurers could reduce their coverage or increase their premiums even further in the event of additional terrorist attacks, hijackings, airline crashes or other events adversely affecting the airline industry abroad or in Latin America. In the future, certain aviation insurance could become unaffordable, unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage that are insufficient to comply with the levels of insurance coverage required by aircraft lenders and lessors or applicable government regulations. While governments in other countries have agreed to indemnify airlines for liabilities that they might incur from terrorist attacks or provide low-cost insurance for terrorism risks, the Panamanian government has not indicated an intention to provide similar benefits to us. Increases in the cost of insurance may result in both higher fares and a decreased demand for air travel generally, which could materially and negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Failure to comply with applicable environmental regulations could adversely affect our business. Our operations are covered by various local, national and international environmental regulations. These regulations cover, among other things, emissions to the atmosphere, disposal of solid waste and aqueous effluents, aircraft noise and other activities that result from the operation of aircraft. Future operations and financial results may vary as a result of such regulations. Compliance with these regulations and new or existing regulations that may be applicable to us in the future could increase our cost base and adversely affect our operations and financial results. Risks Relating to Panama and our Region Our performance is heavily dependent on economic conditions in the countries in which we do business. Passenger demand is heavily cyclical and highly dependent on global and local economic growth, economic expectations and foreign exchange rate variations. In the past, we have been negatively impacted by poor economic performance in certain emerging market countries in which we operate. Any of the following developments in the countries in which we operate could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations: • changes in economic or other governmental policies; • changes in regulatory, legal or administrative practices; or • other political or economic developments over which we have no control. Additionally, a significant portion of our revenues is derived from discretionary and leisure travel which are especially sensitive to economic downturns. A worsening of economic conditions could result in a reduction in passenger traffic, and leisure travel in particular, which in turn would materially and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Any perceived weakening of economic conditions in this region could likewise negatively affect our ability to obtain financing to meet our future capital needs in international capital markets. We are highly dependent on conditions in Panama. A substantial portion of our assets are located in the Republic of Panama, a significant proportion of our customers are Panamanian, and substantially all of Copa’s flights operate through our hub at Tocumen International Airport. As a result, we depend on economic and political conditions prevailing from time to time in Panama. Panama’s economic conditions in turn highly depend on the continued profitability and economic impact of the Panama Canal. Control of the Panama Canal and many other assets were transferred from the United States to Panama in 1999 after nearly a century of U.S. control. Political events in Panama may significantly affect our operations. Although the Panamanian government is democratically elected and the Panamanian political climate is currently stable, Panamanian elections will be held in 2009, and we cannot assure you that current conditions will continue under a new administration. If the Panamanian economy experiences a recession or a reduction in its economic growth rate, or if Panama experiences significant political disruptions, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and negatively affected. We have paid low taxes in the past, and any increase in the taxes we or our shareholders pay in Panama or the other countries where we do business would adversely affect the value of our Class A shares. We cannot assure you that we will not be subject to additional taxes in the future or that current taxes will not be increased. Our provision for income taxes was $9.6 million, $12.3 million and $17.1 million in the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, which represented an effective income tax rate of 10.4%, 8.4% and 9.6% for the respective periods. We are subject to local tax regulations in each of the jurisdictions where we operate, the great majority of which are related to the taxation of income. In some of the countries to which we fly, we do not pay any income taxes, because we do not generate income under the laws of those countries either because they do not have income tax or because of treaties or other arrangements those countries have with Panama. 18 Table of Contents In the remaining countries, we pay income tax at a rate ranging from 25% to 34% of income. Different countries calculate income in different ways, but they are typically derived from sales in the applicable country multiplied by our net margin or by a presumed net margin set by the relevant tax legislation. The determination of our taxable income in several countries is based on a combination of revenues sourced to each particular country and the allocation of expenses of our operations to that particular country. The methodology for multinational transportation company sourcing of revenue and expense is not always specifically prescribed in the relevant tax regulations, and therefore is subject to interpretation by both us and the respective taxing authorities. Additionally, in some countries, the applicability of certain regulations governing non-income taxes and the determination of our filing status are also subject to interpretation. The low rate at which we pay income tax has been critical to our profitability in recent years and if it were to increase, our financial performance and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Due to the competitive revenue environment, many increases in fees and taxes have been absorbed by the airline industry rather than being passed on to the passenger. Any such increases in our fees and taxes may reduce demand for air travel and thus our revenues. In the past, our expenses attributable to operations in Panama have consistently exceeded our revenues attributable to operations in Panama. As a result, we have typically experienced losses for Panamanian income tax purposes and were not subject to any income tax obligations. Beginning in 2004, we adopted an alternate method of calculating income tax in Panama. Under this alternative method, allocation of revenues for operations in Panama is based on a general territorial principle, not specifically defined in the tax regulations. If the Panamanian tax authorities do not agree with our methods of allocating revenues, we may be subject to additional tax liability. Airlines in Panama are currently not subject to any taxes relating specifically to the airline industry other than the 4% tax collected from passengers on tickets sold in Panama for the benefit of the Panamanian Tourism Bureau. Any future change in the Panamanian tax law increasing the taxes payable by us could have materially adverse effects on our business, financial condition and result of operations. Political unrest and instability in Colombia may adversely affect our business and the market price of our Class A shares. We completed our acquisition of AeroRepública in the second quarter of 2005. Almost all of AeroRepública’s scheduled operations are conducted within Colombia. As a result, AeroRepública’s results of operations are highly sensitive to macroeconomic and political conditions prevailing in Colombia, which have been highly volatile and unstable and may continue to be so for the foreseeable future. In addition, terrorism and violence have plagued Colombia in the past. Continuing guerrilla activity could cause political unrest and instability in Colombia, which could adversely affect AeroRepública’s financial condition and results of operations. The threat of terrorist attacks could impose additional costs on us, including enhanced security to protect our aircraft, facilities and personnel against possible attacks as well as increased insurance premiums. As a result, we may encounter significant unanticipated problems at AeroRepública which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Class A Shares The value of our Class A shares may be adversely affected by ownership restrictions on our capital stock and the power of our board of directors to take remedial actions to preserve our operating license and international route rights by requiring sales of certain outstanding shares or issuing new stock. Pursuant to the Panamanian Aviation Act, as amended and interpreted to date, and certain of the bilateral treaties affording us the right to fly to other countries, we are required to be “substantially owned” and “effectively controlled” by Panamanian nationals. Our failure to comply with such requirements could result in the loss of our Panamanian operating license and/or our right to fly to certain important countries. Our Articles of Incorporation (Pacto Social) give special powers to our independent directors to take certain significant actions to attempt to ensure that the amount of shares held in us by non-Panamanian nationals does not reach a level which could jeopardize our compliance with Panamanian and bilateral ownership and control requirements. If our independent directors determine it is reasonably likely that we will be in violation of these ownership and control requirements and our Class B shares represent less than 10% of our total outstanding capital stock (excluding newly issued shares sold with the approval of our independent directors committee), our independent directors will have the power to issue additional Class B shares or Class C shares with special voting rights solely to Panamanian nationals. See “10B. Memorandum and Articles of Association—Description of Capital Stock.” 19 Table of Contents If any of these remedial actions are taken, the trading price of the Class A shares may be materially and adversely affected. An issuance of Class C shares could have the effect of discouraging certain changes of control of Copa Holdings or may reduce any voting power that the Class A shares enjoy prior to the Class C share issuance. There can be no assurance that we would be able to complete an issuance of Class B shares to Panamanian nationals. We cannot assure you that restrictions on ownership by non-Panamanian nationals will not impede the development of an active public trading market for the Class A shares, adversely affect the market price of the Class A shares or materially limit our ability to raise capital in markets outside of Panama in the future. Our controlling shareholder has the ability to direct our business and affairs, and its interests could conflict with yours. All of our Class B shares, representing approximately 29.2% of the economic interest in Copa Holdings and all of the voting power of our capital stock, are owned by CIASA. CIASA is in turn controlled by a group of Panamanian investors. In order to comply with the Panamanian Aviation Act, as amended and interpreted to date, we have amended our organizational documents to modify our share capital so that CIASA will continue to exercise voting control of Copa Holdings. CIASA will not be able to transfer its voting control unless control of our company will remain with Panamanian nationals. CIASA will maintain voting control of the company so long as CIASA continues to own a majority of our Class B shares and the Class B shares continue to represent more than 10% of our total share capital (excluding newly issued shares sold with the approval of our independent directors committee). Even after CIASA ceases to own the majority of the voting power of our capital stock, CIASA may continue to control our board of directors indirectly through its control of our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. As the controlling shareholder, CIASA may direct us to take actions that could be contrary to your interests and under certain circumstances CIASA will be able to prevent other shareholders, including you, from blocking these actions. Also, CIASA may prevent change of control transactions that might otherwise provide you with an opportunity to dispose of or realize a premium on your investment in our Class A shares. The Class A shares will only be permitted to vote in very limited circumstances and may never have full voting rights. The holders of Class A shares have no right to vote at our shareholders’ meetings except with respect to corporate transformations of Copa Holdings, mergers, consolidations or spin-offs of Copa Holdings, changes of corporate purpose, voluntary delistings of the Class A shares from the NYSE, the approval of nominations of our independent directors and amendments to the foregoing provisions that adversely affect the rights and privileges of any Class A shares. The holders of Class B shares have the power, subject to our shareholders’ agreement with Continental, to elect the board of directors and to determine the outcome of all other matters to be decided by a vote of shareholders. Class A shares will not have full voting rights unless the Class B shares represent less than 10% of our total capital stock (excluding newly issued shares sold with the approval of our independent directors committee). See “Item 10B. Memorandum and Articles of Association—Description of Capital Stock.” We cannot assure you that the Class A shares will ever carry full voting rights. Substantial future sales of our Class A shares by Continental or CIASA could cause the price of the Class A shares to decrease. CIASA owns all of our Class B shares, and those Class B shares will be converted into Class A shares if they are sold to non-Panamanian investors. In connection with our initial public offering in December 2005, Continental and CIASA reduced their ownership of our total capital stock from 49% to approximately 27.3% and from 51% to approximately 29.2%, respectively. In a follow-on offering in June 2006, Continental further reduced its ownership of our total capital stock from 27.3% to 10.0%. CIASA holds registration rights with respect to a significant portion of its shares pursuant to a registration rights agreement entered into in connection with our initial public offering. The market price of our Class A shares could drop significantly if Continental or CIASA further reduces its investment in us, other significant holders of our shares sell a significant number of shares or if the market perceives that Continental, CIASA or other significant holders intend to sell them. Continental has agreed, subject to certain exceptions, not to issue or transfer without the consent of CIASA, until June 29, 2008 any shares of our capital stock, any options or warrants to purchase shares of our capital stock or any securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of our capital stock. Nevertheless, this lock-up agreement can be waived at any time and, in any event, after this lock-up agreement expires, Continental will not be restricted from selling its shares in the public market. 20 Table of Contents Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights, and as a result you may experience substantial dilution upon future issuances of stock by us. Under Panamanian law and our organizational documents, holders of our Class A shares are not entitled to any preemptive rights with respect to future issuances of capital stock by us. Therefore, unlike companies organized under the laws of many other Latin American jurisdictions, we will be free to issue new shares of stock to other parties without first offering them to our existing shareholders. In the future we may sell Class A or other shares to persons other than our existing shareholders at a lower price than the shares already sold, and as a result you may experience substantial dilution of your interest in us. You may not be able to sell our Class A shares at the price or at the time you desire because an active or liquid market for the Class A shares may not continue. Our Class A shares are listed on the NYSE. During the three months ended December 31, 2007, the average daily trading volume for our Class A shares as reported by the NYSE was approximately 617,763 shares. We cannot predict whether an active liquid public trading market for our Class A shares will be sustained. Active, liquid trading markets generally result in lower price volatility and more efficient execution of buy and sell orders for our investors. The liquidity of a securities market is often affected by the volume of shares publicly held by unrelated parties. Our board of directors may, in its discretion, amend or repeal our dividend policy. You may not receive the level of dividends provided for in the dividend policy or any dividends at all. Our board of directors has adopted a dividend policy that provides for the payment of dividends to shareholders equal to approximately 10% of our annual consolidated net income. Our board of directors may, in its sole discretion and for any reason, amend or repeal this dividend policy. Our board of directors may decrease the level of dividends provided for in this dividend policy or entirely discontinue the payment of dividends. Future dividends with respect to shares of our common stock, if any, will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions, business opportunities, provisions of applicable law and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. See “Item 8A. Consolidated Financial Statements and Other Financial Information—Dividend Policy.” To the extent we pay dividends to our shareholders, we will have less capital available to meet our future liquidity needs. Our board of directors has adopted a dividend policy that provides for the payment of dividends to shareholders equal to approximately 10% of our annual consolidated net income. The aviation industry has cyclical characteristics, and many international airlines are currently experiencing difficulties meeting their liquidity needs. Also, our business strategy contemplates substantial growth over the next several years, and we expect such growth will require a great deal of liquidity. To the extent that we pay dividends in accordance with our dividend policy, the money that we distribute to shareholders will not be available to us to fund future growth and meet our other liquidity needs. 21 Table of Contents Our Articles of Incorporation impose ownership and control restrictions on our company which ensure that Panamanian nationals will continue to control us and that these restrictions operate to prevent any change of control or some transfers of ownership in order to comply with the Aviation Act and other bilateral restrictions. Under the Panamanian Aviation Act, as amended and interpreted to date, Panamanian nationals must exercise “effective control” over the operations of the airline and must maintain “substantial ownership.” These phrases are not defined in the Aviation Act itself and it is unclear how a Panamanian court would interpret them. The share ownership requirements and transfer restrictions contained in our Articles of Incorporation, as well as the dual-class structure of our voting capital stock are designed to ensure compliance with these ownership and control restrictions. See “Item 10B. Memorandum and Articles of Association—Description of Capital Stock.” These provisions of our Articles of Incorporation may prevent change of control transactions that might otherwise provide you with an opportunity to realize a premium on your investment in our Class A shares. They also ensure that Panamanians will continue to control all the decisions of our company for the foreseeable future. The protections afforded to minority shareholders in Panama are different from and more limited than those in the United States and may be more difficult to enforce. Under Panamanian law, the protections afforded to minority shareholders are different from, and much more limited than, those in the United States and some other Latin American countries. For example, the legal framework with respect to shareholder disputes is less developed under Panamanian law than under U.S. law and there are different procedural requirements for bringing shareholder lawsuits, including shareholder derivative suits. As a result, it may be more difficult for our minority shareholders to enforce their rights against us or our directors or controlling shareholder than it would be for shareholders of a U.S. company. In addition, Panamanian law does not afford minority shareholders as many protections for investors through corporate governance mechanisms as in the United States and provides no mandatory tender offer or similar protective mechanisms for minority shareholders in the event of a change in control. While our Articles of Incorporation provide limited rights to holders of our Class A shares to sell their shares at the same price as CIASA in the event that a sale of Class B shares by CIASA results in the purchaser having the right to elect a majority of our board, there are other change of control transactions in which holders of our Class A shares would not have the right to participate, including the sale of interests by a party that had previously acquired Class B shares from CIASA, the sale of interests by another party in conjunction with a sale by CIASA, the sale by CIASA of control to more than one party, or the sale of controlling interests in CIASA itself. Developments in Latin American countries and other emerging market countries may cause the market price of our Class A shares to decrease. The market value of securities issued by Panamanian companies may be affected to varying degrees by economic and market conditions in other countries, including other Latin American and emerging market countries. Although economic conditions in emerging market countries outside Latin America may differ significantly from economic conditions in Panama and Colombia or elsewhere in Latin America, investors’ reactions to developments in these other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value of securities of Panamanian issuers or issuers with significant operations in Latin America. As a result of economic problems in various emerging market countries in the past (such as the Asian financial crisis of 1997, the Russian financial crisis of 1998 and the Argentine financial crisis in 2001), investors have viewed investments in emerging markets with heightened caution. Crises in other emerging market countries may hamper investor enthusiasm for securities of Panamanian issuers, including our shares, which could adversely affect the market price of our Class A shares. 