Item 1A. Risk FactorsWe caution readers that in addition to the important factors described elsewhere in this Form 10-K (the “Report”), readers should carefully review the risks identified below as they describe important factors that could affect or cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us and/or our historic trends.Our growth strategy and other important strategic initiatives may not be successful and may expose us to certain risks.Our growth strategy, to a large extent, depends on our ability to increase the number of Tim Hortons restaurants through internal growth and potentially through strategic initiatives (such as acquisitions, joint ventures, and/or alternative business models, such as self-serve kiosks, co-branding, strategic relationships, master licensing agreements, U.S. development alternatives, and area development agreements). There is no assurance that we will be able to achieve our growth objectives, new restaurants may not be profitable, and strategic initiatives may not be successful and may expose us to various risks.(a) New restaurants and new marketsThe addition of new restaurants in a market may negatively impact the same-store sales growth and profitability of existing restaurants in the market. If our new restaurants are not profitable or negatively affect the profitability of existing restaurants, we may be limited or unable to carry out expansion activities and our business model of franchising new or existing restaurants as we could have difficulty finding qualified restaurant owners willing to participate in our expansion or we may desire that the restaurant reach minimum profitability levels before franchising the restaurant. This may negatively impact our revenue growth and operating results. We may also need to provide relief and support programs for our restaurant owners in developing markets as well as expand our, or introduce new, financing support programs or extend financing on more generous terms than would be available from third parties, either of which could increase our costs and thus decrease net income. Alternatively, if we have interested restaurant owners, we may offer the restaurant to such owner through an operator agreement or other agreement, which may also result in an increase in restaurant owner relief and support costs.We may enter markets where our brand is not well known and where we have little or no operating experience. New markets may have different competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns than our existing markets and/or higher construction, occupancy, and operating costs compared to existing restaurants. As a result, new restaurants in those markets may have lower average restaurant sales than restaurants in existing markets and may take longer than expected to reach target sales and profit levels, and may never do so, thereby affecting our overall financial condition and/or financial results. We will need to build brand awareness in those markets we enter through advertising and promotional activity, and those activities may not promote our brand as effectively as intended, if at all.(b) Restaurant performanceFrom time to time, we may rationalize and close underperforming restaurants in order to improve overall profitability. Such closures, however, may be accompanied by impairment charges, closure costs, and/or valuation allowances that may have a negative impact on our earnings. We may also deliberately slow the development of new restaurants in some markets, depending on various factors, including the sales growth of existing restaurants in those markets. Same-store sales growth is a measure we monitor, and, among other things, if sales growth falls below our expectations for a prolonged period of time based on applicable accounting rules, we will be required to assess whether the market is impaired, and the market may require an impairment charge. In addition, if we have significant negative cash flows in a market for several years, or if we close restaurants outside of the ordinary course of business, we may be forced to impair assets in affected markets, which could have a negative effect on our earnings.(c) LocationThe success of any restaurant depends in substantial part on its location. There can be no assurance that current locations will continue to be attractive as demographic patterns change. Neighbourhood or economic conditions where restaurants are located could decline in the future, thus resulting in potentially reduced sales in those locations. Competition for restaurant locations can also be intense and there may be delay or cancellation of new site developments by developers and landlords, which may be exacerbated by factors related to the commercial real estate or credit markets. If we cannot obtain desirable locations for our restaurants at reasonable prices due to, among other things, higher than anticipated acquisition, construction and/or development costs of new restaurants; difficulty negotiating leases with acceptable terms; onerous land use or zoning restrictions; or challenges in securing required governmental permits; then our ability to execute our growth strategies may be adversely affected. Similarly, our growth strategy includes renovation plans for certain of our restaurants. Our ability to complete our restaurant renovation plans as projected may be impacted by the same factors described above.18Table of Contents(d) Vertical integration and growthOur vertically integrated manufacturing, warehouse and distribution capabilities are important elements of our business model and allow us to: improve product quality and consistency; protect proprietary interests; facilitate the expansion of our product offerings; control availability and timely delivery of products; provide economies of scale and labour efficiencies; and generate additional sources of income and financial results. There are certain risks associated with our vertical integration growth strategy, including: delays and/or difficulties associated with owning a manufacturing, warehouse and distribution business; maintenance; operations and/or management of the facilities, equipment, employees and inventories; limitations on the flexibility of controlling capital expenditures and overhead; and the need for skills and techniques that are outside our traditional core expertise. If we do not adequately address the challenges related to our vertically integrated operations or our overall level of utilization or production decreases for any reason, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely impacted.We intend to continue to evaluate potential mergers, acquisitions, joint venture investments, alliances, and vertical integration opportunities. These transactions involve various financial and tax, managerial, and operational risks, including: accurately assessing the value, future growth potential, strengths, weaknesses, contingent and other liabilities and potential profitability of acquisition opportunities; the potential loss of key personnel of an acquired business; our ability to achieve projected economic and operating synergies; difficulties successfully integrating, operating, maintaining and managing newly acquired operations or employees; difficulties maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; the possibility we could incur impairment charges if an acquired business performs below expectations; unanticipated changes in business and economic conditions affecting the acquired business; ramp-up costs, whether anticipated or not; the potential for the unauthorized use of our trademarks and brand name by third parties; the possibility of a breach of contract adversely affecting a business relationship with a third party; the potential negative effects such transactions may have on the Company’s relationship with restaurant owners and business relationships with suppliers; the potential exposure to restaurant owners and others arising from our reliance on and dissemination of information provided by third parties; and diversion of management’s and restaurant owners’ attention from the demands of the existing business. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to complete desirable transactions, for reasons including restrictive covenants in debt instruments or other agreements with third parties, or a failure to secure financing. Strategic alliances have been an integral part of our growth strategies. There can be no assurance that: significant value will be recognized through such strategic alliances; we will be able to maintain our existing strategic alliances; or, we will be able to enter into new strategic relationships in the future. While we believe we could ultimately take action to terminate any alliances that prove to be unsuccessful, we may not be able to identify problems and take action quickly enough and, as a result, our brand image and reputation may suffer, or we may suffer increased liabilities, costs and other financial burdens. Entry into and the subsequent unwinding of strategic alliances may expose us to additional risks which may adversely affect our brand and business and decrease our revenue and growth prospects.(e) ImplementationWe developed and began implementing various new strategic plans and initiatives commencing in fiscal 2014, as an update to our previous strategic plan that was implemented in 2010. Our financial outlook and long-range aspirational earnings per share targets through the end of 2018 are based on the successful implementation, execution, and guest acceptance of such plans and initiatives. These strategic plans are also designed to improve our results of operations and drive long-term shareholder value. There can be no assurance that we will be able to implement our strategic plans and initiatives or that such plans and initiatives will yield the expected results, either of which could cause us to fall short of achieving our financial objectives and long-range aspirational goals.Our success depends substantially on the value of the Tim Hortons brand and our Canadian segment performance.Our success is largely dependent upon our ability to maintain and enhance the value of our brand, our guests’ connection to and perception of our brand, and a positive relationship with our restaurant owners. Brand value can be severely damaged even by isolated incidents, particularly if the incidents receive considerable negative publicity or result in litigation. Some of these incidents may arise from events that are or may be beyond our ability to control and may damage our brand, such as: actions taken (or not taken) by one or more restaurant owners or their employees relating to health, safety, quality assurance, environmental, welfare, labour matters, public policy or social issues, or otherwise; litigation and claims; failure of, or security breaches or other fraudulent activities associated with, our networks and systems; illegal activity targeted at us; and negative incidents occurring at or affecting our business partners, suppliers, affiliates, or corporate social responsibility programs. Our brand could also be damaged by falsified claims or the quality of products from vertically integrated manufacturing facilities or our other suppliers, as well as negative publicity from various sources, whether true or not, which are beyond our control. In addition, a variety of risks to our brand are associated with the use of social media, including negative comments about us, improper disclosure of proprietary or personal information, exposure to personally identifiable information, fraud or out-of-date 19Table of Contentsinformation which may lead to litigation or result in negative publicity that could damage our brand and reputation and result in lower sales and, ultimately, lower earnings and profits.The Tim Hortons brand is synonymous with our ability to deliver quality food products at value prices. If we are unable to maintain in Canada, or unable to maintain and/or achieve in other markets, an appropriate price-to-value relationship for our products in the minds of guests, our ability, by and through our restaurant owners and independently, to increase or maintain same-store sales may be affected. Our ability to maintain or achieve the appropriate price-to-value relationship also may be affected by discounting or other promotional activity of competitors, which can be very aggressive.Our financial performance is highly dependent on our Canadian business unit, which accounted for the substantial majority of our reportable segment revenues and our reportable segment operating income in fiscal 2013. Accordingly, any substantial or sustained decline in our Canadian business would materially and adversely affect our overall financial performance.The quick service restaurant segment is highly competitive, and competition could lower our revenues, margins, and market share.The quick service restaurant segment of the food service industry is intensely competitive. Tim Hortons restaurants compete with international, regional, and local organizations primarily through the quality, variety, and value perception of food and beverage products offered. Other key competitive factors include: the number and location of restaurants; quality and speed of service; attractiveness of facilities; effectiveness and magnitude of advertising, marketing, promotional, and operational programs; price; changing demographic patterns and trends; changing consumer preferences and spending patterns, including weaker consumer spending in difficult economic times, or a desire for a more diversified menu; changing health or dietary preferences and/or perceptions; and, new product development. If we are unable to maintain our competitive position, we could experience lower demand for products, downward pressure on prices, reduced margins, an inability to take advantage of new business opportunities, a loss of market share, and an inability to attract qualified restaurant owners in the future.Our financial results and the success of our same-store sales growth strategy are largely dependent on our continued innovation and the successful development and launch of new products and product extensions.The success of our same-store sales growth strategy is dependent on, among other things, our ability and capacity to extend our product offerings, introduce innovative new products, adapt to consumer trends and desires, achieve the hospitality and speed of service standards expected by our guests, provide a distinctive and overall quality guest experience, and respond to competitive pressures. Although we devote significant focus on product development, our ability to develop commercially successful new products will depend on our ability to gather sufficient data and effectively gauge the direction of market and consumer trends and initiatives and successfully identify, develop, manufacture, market and sell new or improved products in response to such trends. In addition, the marketing and promotion associated with our introduction of new products may generate litigation or other legal proceedings against us by competitors claiming infringement of their intellectual property or other rights, which could negatively impact our results of operations. The speed of service and capacity in our restaurants may also be impacted by the complexity of our menu and new product offerings which could have an adverse effect on customer acceptance, perceptions and reactions and, ultimately, our financial condition or results of operations.Increases in the cost of commodities or decreases in the availability of commodities, as well as inconsistent quality of commodities, could have an adverse impact on our restaurant owners and on our business and financial results.Our restaurant system is exposed to price volatility in connection with certain key commodities that we purchase in the ordinary course of business such as coffee, wheat, edible oils and sugar, which can impact revenues, costs and margins. Although we monitor our exposure to commodity prices and our forward hedging program (of varied duration, depending upon the type of underlying commodity) partially mitigates the negative impact of any cost increases, price volatility for commodities we purchase may increase due to conditions beyond our control, including economic and political conditions, currency fluctuations, availability of supply, weather conditions, pest damage and changing global consumer demand and consumption patterns. Increases and decreases in commodity costs are largely passed through to restaurant owners, and we and our restaurant owners have some ability to increase product pricing to offset a rise in commodity prices, subject to restaurant owner and guest acceptance. Notwithstanding the foregoing, while it is not our current practice, we may choose not to pass along all price increases to our restaurant owners which could have a more significant effect on our business and results of operations than if we pass along all increases to our restaurant owners. Price fluctuations may also impact margins as many of these commodities are typically priced based on a fixed-dollar mark-up. Although we generally secure commitments for most of our key commodities that typically extend over a six-month period, we may be forced to purchase commodities at higher prices at the end of the respective terms of our current commitments. See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Commodity Risk of this Report.20Table of ContentsIf the supply or quality of commodities, including coffee, fails to meet demand or our and our guests’ quality standards, our restaurant owners may experience reduced sales which, in turn, would reduce our rents and royalty revenues as well as distribution sales. Such a reduction in our rents and royalty revenues and distribution sales may adversely impact our business and financial results.Food-related health and safety concerns or perceptions may have an adverse effect on our business.Incidents or reports, whether true or not, of: unclean water supply; food-borne illness (including E. coli, listeria, hepatitis A, “mad cow” disease, salmonella or other types of bacterial, parasitic or viral food-borne diseases); injuries caused by or claims of food tampering, food contamination, widespread product recall, employee hygiene and cleanliness failures or impropriety at Tim Hortons or other quick service restaurants unrelated to Tim Hortons; and, the potential health impacts of consuming certain of our products, including our core products; could result in negative publicity, damage our brand value, and potentially lead to product liability or other claims. Any decrease in guest traffic or temporary closure of any of our restaurants as a result of such incidents or negative publicity may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Food-borne illness or food safety issues may also adversely affect the availability, price and quality of ingredients, which could result in disruptions in our supply chain and/or negatively impact both the Company and our restaurant owners.Our distribution operations and supply chain are subject to pressures and risks, many of which are outside our control, that could reduce our profitability.Our distribution operations and supply chain may be impacted by various factors, some of which are beyond our control, that could injure our brand and negatively affect our results of operations and our ability to generate expected earnings and/or increase costs, including: increased transportation, shipping, food and other supply costs; inclement weather or extreme weather events; risks of having a single source of supply for certain of our food and beverage products; shortages or interruptions in the availability or supply of high-quality coffee beans, perishable food products and/or their ingredients; variations in the quality of our food and beverage products and/or their ingredients; potential cost and disruption of a product recall; potential negative impacts on our relationship with our restaurant owners associated with an increase of required purchases, or prices, of products purchased from our distribution business; and political, physical, environmental, labour, or technological disruptions in our own or our suppliers’ manufacturing and/or warehousing plants, facilities, or equipment.Because we do not provide distribution services to our restaurant owners in certain geographic areas, our restaurant owners in such areas may not receive the same level of service and reliability as we are able to provide through our own distribution channels.Our earnings and the success of our growth strategy depends in large part on our restaurant owners; actions taken by our restaurant owners may harm our business.A substantial portion of our earnings come from royalties, rents, and other amounts paid by restaurant owners, who operated substantially all of our system restaurants as at December 29, 2013. Accordingly, our financial results are, to a large extent, dependent upon the operational and financial success of our restaurant owners. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain positive relationships with our existing restaurant owners or that we will be able to continue to attract, retain, and motivate sufficient numbers of qualified restaurant owners, either of which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Furthermore, the success of our same-store sales growth strategy and brand reputation is dependent, among other things, on achievement of our hospitality, operational standards, and a positive overall guest experience. There can be no assurance that we and our restaurant owners will be able to continue to attract, retain and motivate sufficient numbers of qualified restaurant team members, who will be able and willing to achieve our hospitality and operational restaurant-level standards. Our restaurant owners are independent contractors and, as a result, some restaurant owners may not successfully operate restaurants in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements or comply with federal, provincial or state labour laws (including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working and safety conditions, employment eligibility and temporary foreign worker requirements), and may not be able to hire, train and retain qualified managers and other restaurant personnel. Any operational shortcoming of a franchised restaurant is likely to be attributed by guests to our entire system, thus damaging our brand reputation and potentially affecting revenues and profitability. Our principal competitors that have a significantly higher percentage of company-operated restaurants than we do may have greater control over their respective restaurant systems and have greater flexibility to implement operational initiatives and business strategies.Since we receive revenues in the form of rents, royalties, and franchise fees from our restaurant owners, our revenues and profits would decline and our brand reputation could also be harmed if a significant number of restaurant owners were to: experience operational failures, including health, safety and quality assurance issues; experience financial difficulty (including bankruptcy); be unwilling or unable to pay us for food and supplies, or for royalties, rent or other fees; fail to be actively 21Table of Contentsengaged in their business such that they are unable to operate their restaurants in a manner consistent with our standards; fail to enter into renewals of franchise, operating or license agreements; or experience labour shortages, including due to changes in employment eligibility requirements, the cessation or limitation of access to federal or provincial labour programs, including the temporary foreign worker program, or significant increases in labour or other costs of running their businesses. Our advertising levies may also be at risk, which could impact the magnitude and extent of our marketing initiatives. In addition, the ability of restaurant owners to finance the equipment and renovation costs or improvements and additions to existing restaurants, and our sale of restaurants to restaurant owners, are affected by economic conditions, including interest rates and the cost and availability of borrowed funds. A weakening in restaurant owner financial stability would have a negative impact on our business and may cause us to finance purchases for our restaurant owners or, if we elect not to do so or we are unable to do so, our ability to grow our business in the way we would like may be adversely impacted.Our business activities subject us to litigation risk that could adversely affect us by subjecting us to significant monetary damages and other remedies or by increasing our litigation expense.From time to time, we are subject to claims incidental to our business, such as “slip and fall” accidents at franchised or Company-operated restaurants, claims and disputes in connection with site development and construction of system restaurants and employment claims. In addition, class action lawsuits have been filed in the past, and may continue to be filed, against quick service restaurants alleging, among other things, that quick service restaurants have failed to disclose the health risks associated with their products or that certain food products contribute to obesity. Any negative publicity resulting from these claims may adversely affect our reputation, making it more difficult to attract and retain qualified restaurant owners and grow our business. We may also be subject to claims from employees, guests, and others relating to health and safety risks and conditions of our restaurants associated with design, operation, construction, site location and development, indoor or airborne contaminants and/or certain equipment utilized in operations. In addition, from time to time, we may face claims from: (a) our employees relating to employment or labour matters, including, potentially, class action suits regarding wages, discrimination, unfair or unequal treatment, harassment, wrongful termination, or overtime compensation; (b) our restaurant owners and/or operators regarding their profitability, wrongful termination of their franchise or operating (license) agreement, as the case may be, or other restaurant-owner relationship matters; (c) taxation authorities regarding tax disputes or tax positions taken by the Company; and/or (d) business partners, stakeholders or other third parties relating to intellectual property infringement claims. Furthermore, in certain of our agreements, we may agree to indemnify our business partners against any losses or costs incurred in connection with claims by a third party alleging that our services infringe the intellectual property rights of the third party. Companies have increasingly become subject to infringement threats from non-practicing organizations (sometimes referred to as ‘‘patent trolls’’) filing lawsuits for patent infringement. We, or our business partners, may become subject to claims for infringement and we may be required to indemnify or defend our business partners from such claims. We are also exposed to a wide variety of falsified or exaggerated claims due to our size and brand recognition. All of these types of matters have the potential to unduly distract management’s attention and increase costs, including costs associated with defending such claims. Our current exposure with respect to legal matters pending against us could change if determinations by judges and other finders of fact are not in accordance with management’s evaluation of the claims. Should management’s evaluations prove incorrect and such claims are successful, our exposure could exceed expectations and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although some losses may be covered by insurance, if there are significant losses that are not covered, or there is a delay in receiving insurance proceeds, or the proceeds are insufficient to offset our losses fully, our consolidated financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. Tax regulatory authorities may disagree with our positions and conclusions regarding certain tax attributes and treatments, including relating to certain of our corporate reorganizations, capital structure initiatives, or internal or external transactions, resulting in unanticipated costs or non-realization of expected benefits.A taxation authority may disagree with certain views of the Company, including, for example, the allocation of profits by tax jurisdiction, and the deductibility of our interest expense, and may take the position that material income tax liabilities, interests, penalties, or other amounts are payable by us, in which case, we expect that we would contest such assessment. Contesting such an assessment may be lengthy and costly and if we were unsuccessful, the implications could be materially adverse to us and affect our effective tax rate or operating income, where applicable.There can be no assurance that the Canada Revenue Agency (the “CRA”) and/or the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) will agree with our interpretation of the tax aspects of reorganizations, initiatives, transactions, or any related matters associated therewith that we have undertaken. The CRA or the IRS may disagree with our view and take the position that material Canadian or U.S. federal income tax liabilities, interest and penalties, respectively, are payable or that our tax positions or views are invalid. If we are unsuccessful in disputing the CRA’s or the IRS’ assertions, we may not be in a position to take advantage of the effective tax rates and the level of benefits that we anticipated to achieve as a result of corporate reorganizations, initiatives and transactions, and the implications could be materially adverse to us, including an increase in our 22Table of Contentseffective tax rate. Even if we are successful in maintaining our positions, we may incur significant expense in contesting positions asserted or claims made by tax authorities that could have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations. Similarly, other costs or difficulties related to the reorganizations and related transactions, which could be greater than expected, could also affect our projected results, future operations, and financial condition.Under our current corporate structure, an increase in debt levels beyond our current target of $900.0 million could result in further increases in the effective tax rate resulting from incurring additional interest expense for which we may not receive a tax benefit, and/or increases in income or withholding taxes on distributions from our Canadian operating company to our parent corporation. Addressing constraints in our corporate structure is an important consideration to maintaining our effective tax rate over the longer term, although there can be no assurance that we will be able to address these constraints in a timely or tax efficient manner. Our inability to address these constraints in a timely or efficient manner could negatively affect our projected results, future operations, and financial condition.Our business is subject to various laws and regulations and changes in such laws and regulations and/or failure to comply with existing or future laws and regulations, or our planning initiatives related to such laws and regulations, could adversely affect us and our shareholders and expose us to litigation, damage our brand reputation or lower profits.Compliance with these laws and regulations and planning initiatives undertaken in connection with such laws and regulations could increase our cost of doing business; reduce operational efficiencies; and, depending upon the nature of our and our restaurant owners’ responsive actions to or planning in connection with such laws, regulations, and other matters, damage our reputation. Increases in costs impact our profitability and the profitability of our restaurant owners. Failure to comply with such laws or regulations on a timely basis may lead to civil and criminal liability, cancellation of licenses, fines, and other corrective action, any of which could adversely affect our business and future financial results and have an adverse impact on our brand due to potentially negative publicity regarding our business practices.We and our restaurant owners are subject to various international, federal, state, provincial and local laws, treaties and regulations affecting our and their businesses. These laws and regulations include those regarding or relating to: zoning, land use (including the development and/or operation of drive-thru windows), transportation and traffic; health, food, sanitation and safety; taxes; privacy laws, including the collection, retention, sharing and security of data; immigration, employment and labour laws (such as the U.S. Fair Labor Standards Act and similar Canadian legislation), including some increases in minimum wage requirements that were implemented in certain provinces in Canada and states in the U.S. in 2013 and other increases in such jurisdictions that may occur in the future, that have increased, or will increase, our and our restaurant owners’ labour costs in those provinces and states; laws preventing discrimination and harassment in the workplace and providing certain civil rights to individuals with disabilities; laws affecting the design of facilities and accessibility (such as the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and similar Canadian legislation); taxes; environmental matters; product safety; nutritional disclosure and regulations regarding nutritional content, including menu labeling and TFA content; advertising and marketing; record keeping and document retention procedures; and new and/or additional franchise legislation. We are also subject to applicable accounting and reporting requirements and regulations, including those imposed by Canadian and U.S. securities regulatory authorities, the NYSE and the TSX. The complexity of the regulatory environment in which we operate and the related costs of compliance are both increasing due to additional legal and regulatory requirements.Many of our employees and our restaurant owners’ employees are subject to various minimum wage requirements. Many of our restaurants are located in provinces or states where the minimum wage was recently increased and may further increase in the future, and in other provinces or states in which increases are being considered. In addition, one-day strikes for fast-food employees in certain U.S. markets for an increase in the minimum wage may result in increases in the minimum wage which would affect all restaurant employees in these markets. Any minimum wage increases may cause an increase in prices which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. With respect to environmental laws and regulations, our operations, including our distribution and manufacturing operations and supply chain, are governed and impacted by laws, regulations, local by-laws or limitations regarding climate change, energy consumption and our management, handling, release and/or disposal of water resources, air resources, hazardous or toxic substances, solid waste and other environmental matters, including:•regulations regarding drive-thrus, including banning or imposing idling restrictions in drive-thrus, which could limit our ability to develop or operate restaurants with drive-thrus in certain locations and/or affect the efficiency of drive-thru locations; local building codes, which may require more expensive building materials or restaurant types as well as programs requiring greater use of recyclable materials that can be processed by the waste management industry and/or requiring contributions to residential blue box programs in Ontario, Quebec, Manitoba and British Columbia, or similar programs in the U.S. that result in increased costs because certain municipalities do not accept our recyclable packaging; and23Table of Contents•regulations relating to the discharge, storage, handling, release and/or disposal of hazardous or toxic substances, particularly with respect to: certain of our operations (e.g., distribution and manufacturing); restaurant locations that were formerly gas stations or other commercial or industrial sites which utilized hazardous or toxic substances (or that are adjacent or exposed to such sites); septic systems with insufficient capacity; and treatment of well water.In addition, third parties may make claims against owners or operators of properties for personal injuries or property damage associated with releases of hazardous or toxic substances.As “sustainability” issues become more prevalent and accepted, there may be increased governmental, shareholder, and other stakeholder awareness and sentiment for more regulation as well as voluntarily adopted programs relating to the reduction and mitigation of environmental or other impacts. There is a possibility that, when and if enacted, the final form of such legislation or any voluntary actions taken by us in this regard would impose stricter requirements or alternative modes of conducting business, which could lead to the need for significant capital expenditures in order to meet those requirementsand/or higher ongoing compliance and operating costs. Our participation in or implementation of, or our decision not to participate in or implement, certain types of programs also may have an adverse impact on our brand due to potentially negative publicity or the negative perception of stakeholders regarding our business practices and lack of willingness to demonstrate environmental leadership. Such injury to our brand and reputation may, in turn, also reduce revenues and profits. See also Item 1. Business—Sustainability and Responsibility regarding our planned activities with respect to sustainability and corporate responsibility initiatives.We continue to review the implications on us of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, a comprehensive U.S. health care reform law regarding government-mandated health benefits, as well as the FDA Food Safety Modernization Act, the new U.S. food safety modernization law that was enacted in January 2011 and the FDA’s proposed implementation rules. Although we cannot currently determine with certainty the financial and operational impact that the laws will have on us, our restaurant owners and/or our third-party suppliers and distributors, we expect that costs will increase over the long term as a result of these laws. Any significant increased costs associated with compliance with such laws could adversely affect our financial results and our restaurant owners’ profitability. Additionally, we must, or may become required to, comply with a number of anti-corruption laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the Corruption of Foreign Public Officials Act (Canada) and The Bribery Act of 2010 (U.K.), which prohibit improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. The scope and enforcement of anti-corruption laws and regulations may vary. There can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, licensees or agents will not violate these laws and regulations. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our business and operations.Failure to retain our existing senior management team or the inability to attract and retain new qualified personnel could hurt our business and inhibit our ability to operate and grow successfully.Our success will continue to depend to a significant extent on our executive management team and the ability of other key management personnel to replace executives who retire or resign. Failure to retain our leadership team and attract and retain other important personnel could lead to ineffective management and operations, which would likely decrease our profitability.Effective July 2, 2013, our Board of Directors appointed Mr. Marc Caira to the position of President and Chief Executive Officer. With the change in leadership, there is a risk to retention of other members of senior management, even with the existing retention program in place. We rely extensively on systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business, and a disruption, failure or security breach of such networks, systems or technology could harm our ability to run our business and expose us to litigation.Network and information systems and other technology systems are integral to retail operations at our restaurants, in our distribution facilities, at our manufacturing facilities, and at our office locations. We also rely heavily on computer systems in managing financial results. These systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer worms, viruses, phishing and other destructive or disruptive software, security breaches, catastrophic events and improper or personal usage by employees. Such an event could have an adverse impact on us and our guests, employees and restaurant owners, including a disruption of our business; disruption of corporate, distribution and manufacturing operations; guest dissatisfaction; negative publicity; loss of reputation; or a loss of guests or revenues; as well as result in our non-compliance with laws or regulations. Such an event also could result in expenditures necessary to repair or replace such networks or information systems, to protect them from similar events in the future, or to conduct a review or analysis of the circumstances. Any such event could also expose us to litigation.24Table of ContentsIn connection with our integrated financial system and our electronic payment solutions, we rely extensively on third-party suppliers to retain data, process transactions, and provide certain services. While we make every reasonable effort to confirm that these suppliers have appropriate processes and controls so that there is continuity of services and protection of data, we have no direct control over same; consequently, the possibility of failure in such third-party suppliers’ systems and processes exists. In such an event, we could experience business interruptions or privacy and/or security breaches surrounding guest, employee, supplier, restaurant owner, licensee and Company data or personal information.We continue to enhance our integrated financial systems. These systems will integrate and exchange data with the financial systems already in place. There may be risks associated with adjusting to and supporting the new module which may impact our relations with our restaurant owners and suppliers, and the conduct of our business generally. With our use of credit payment systems, our reloadable cash card, and use of debit card and mobile payment systems, we are more susceptible to the risk of an external security breach of guest information that we or third parties under arrangements with us control (including those with whom we have strategic alliances). We could become subject to various claims, including those arising out of theft of data or hardware and fraudulent transactions in the event of a security breach, theft, leakage, accidental release or other illegal activity with respect to employee, guest, supplier, restaurant owner, third-party (including those with whom we have strategic alliances), licensee, business partner, or, company data or personal information. This may also result in the suspension of electronic payment processing services and fines from credit card companies or regulatory authorities. This could harm our reputation as well as divert management attention and expose us to potentially unreserved claims and litigation. Any loss in connection with these types of claims could be substantial. In addition, if our electronic payment systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make significant investments to fix or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. In addition, we are reliant on these systems, not only to protect the security of the information stored, but also to appropriately track and record data.Any failures or inadequacies of our security measures or systems could damage our brand reputation and result in an increase in service charges, suspension of service, lost sales, fines, or lawsuits, as well as expose us to significant unreserved losses, which could result in an earnings and share price decline. Although some losses may be covered by insurance, if there are significant losses that are not covered, or there is a delay in receiving insurance proceeds, or the proceeds are insufficient to offset our losses fully, our consolidated financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected.Fluctuations in U.S. and Canadian dollar exchange rates can affect our results, as well as the price of common shares and certain dividends we pay.The majority of our operations, income, revenues, expenses and cash flows are in Canadian dollars and we report our results in Canadian dollars. When the U.S. dollar falls in value relative to the Canadian dollar, any profits reported by our U.S. business contribute less to (or, for losses, do not impact as significantly) our consolidated Canadian dollar earnings because of the weaker U.S. dollar. Conversely, when the U.S. dollar increases in value relative to the Canadian dollar, any profits reported by our U.S. business contribute more to (or, for losses, impact more significantly) our consolidated Canadian dollar earnings because of the stronger U.S. dollar.Royalties paid to us by our international restaurant owners will be based on a conversion of local currencies to U.S. dollars using the prevailing exchange rate, and changes in the exchange rate could adversely affect our revenues. To the extent that the portion of any revenues generated from international operations increases in the future, our exposure to change in currency fluctuations will increase.Canadian dollars drive our earnings per share; accordingly, our earnings per share may be translated into U.S. dollars by analysts and others. Given the foregoing, the value of an investment in our common shares to a U.S. shareholder will fluctuate as the U.S. dollar rises and falls against the Canadian dollar. Our decision to declare a dividend depends on results of operations reported in Canadian dollars, and we declare dividends in Canadian dollars. As a result, U.S. and other shareholders seeking U.S. dollar total returns, including increases in the share price and dividends paid, are subject to foreign exchange risk as the U.S. dollar rises and falls against the Canadian dollar. See Item 5. Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities of this Report for additional information regarding the currency conversion process for dividends.We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could decrease the value of our brand and branded products.The success of our business depends on our continued ability to use our existing trademarks, service marks, and other components of our brand in order to increase brand awareness and further develop branded products in the U.S. and Canadian markets, as well as in international markets in which we have expanded or may wish to expand in the future. We may not be able to adequately protect our trademarks, and use of these trademarks may result in liability for trademark infringement, 25Table of Contentstrademark dilution, or unfair competition. Even where we have effectively secured statutory protection for our trademarks and other intellectual property, our competitors may misappropriate our intellectual property and our employees, consultants, suppliers or other business partners may breach their contractual obligations not to reveal our confidential information, including trade secrets. There can be no assurance that these protections will be adequate or that third parties will not independently develop products or concepts that are substantially similar to ours. Despite our efforts, it may be possible for third parties to reverse-engineer, otherwise obtain, copy, and use information that we regard as proprietary. Furthermore, defending or enforcing our trademark rights, branding practices and other intellectual property, and seeking an injunctionand/or compensation for misappropriation of confidential information, could result in the expenditure of significant resources and divert the attention of management, which in turn may materially and adversely affect our business and operating results.Although we monitor and restrict restaurant owner, operator and licensee activities through our franchise, operator and license agreements, restaurant owners, operators and licensees may refer to our brands improperly in public statements to the media or public, writings or conversation, resulting in the dilution or damage of our intellectual property and brand. Restaurant owner, operator and licensee non-compliance with the terms and conditions of our franchise, operator and license agreements may reduce the overall goodwill of our brand, whether through the failure to meet health and safety standards, or to engage in quality control or maintain product consistency, or through participation in improper or objectionable business practices. Moreover, unauthorized third parties may use our intellectual property to trade on the goodwill of our brands, resulting in guest confusion or dilution. Any reduction or dilution of our brand’s goodwill, or any guest confusion, is likely to impact sales, and could materially and adversely impact our business and operating results.In addition, in certain jurisdictions outside of the U.S. and Canada, there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of laws and regulations relating to, and the enforceability of, intellectual property and related contract rights. Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to adequately monitor the use of our intellectual property or enforce our intellectual property and related contract rights in courts in international jurisdictions.Our ownership and leasing of significant amounts of real estate exposes us to possible liabilities, losses, and risks.As at December 29, 2013, we owned or leased the land or building for a substantial majority of our full-service system restaurants. Accordingly, we are subject to all of the risks associated with owning and leasing the real estate. In particular, the value of our real estate assets could decrease, and/or our costs could increase, because of changes in the investment climate for real estate, demographic trends, demand for restaurant sites and other retail properties, and exposure to or liability associated with environmental contamination and reclamation, as further discussed above under “Our business is subject to various laws and regulations and changes in such laws and regulations and/or failure to comply with existing or future laws and regulations, or our planning initiatives related to such laws and regulations, could adversely affect us and our shareholders and expose us to litigation, damage our brand reputation or lower profits.”We lease land generally for initial terms of 10 to 20 years. Most of our leases provide for rent increases over the term of the lease and require us to pay all of the costs of insurance, taxes, maintenance, utilities, and other property-related costs. We generally cannot cancel these leases. If an existing or future restaurant is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease, including, among other things, paying the rent, insurance, taxes, maintenance, utilities, and other property-related costs for the balance of the lease term. Certain leases may limit our ability to cease operations at a particular location, making it more costly to close undesirable locations. In addition, as leases expire, we may fail to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close restaurants in desirable locations.Typically the costs of insurance, taxes, maintenance, utilities, and other property-related costs due under a prime lease with a third-party landlord are passed through to the restaurant owner under our sublease. If the restaurant owner fails to perform the obligations passed through under their sublease, we will be required to perform those obligations pursuant to the prime lease. In addition, the rent the restaurant owner pays to the Company under the sublease is generally based on a percentage of gross sales. If gross sales at a certain restaurant are less than the Company projects, we may pay more rent to a third-party landlord under the prime lease than we receive from the restaurant owner under the sublease. These events could result in an inability to fully recover from the restaurant owner expenses incurred on leased properties, resulting in increased leasing and operational costs to the Company.A downgrade of our credit rating could adversely affect our cost of funds, liquidity and access to capital markets.Failure to maintain our credit rating could adversely affect our cost of funds, liquidity and access to capital markets. Although we have indicated our intent to target maintenance of an investment grade credit rating, ratings are evaluated and determined by independent third parties and may be impacted by events both outside of our control as well as significant decisions made by us, including major acquisitions or divestitures. Credit rating agencies perform independent analysis when 26Table of Contentsassigning credit ratings and such analysis includes a number of criteria, including, but not limited to, various financial tests, business composition, and market and operational risks. The credit rating agencies continually review the criteria for industry sectors and various credit ratings. Accordingly, such criteria may change from time to time. A downgrade of our credit rating may limit our access to capital markets and increase our cost of borrowing under debt facilities or future note issuances. In addition, if our rating agency were to downgrade our credit rating, the instruments governing our future indebtedness could impose additional restrictions on our ability to make capital expenditures or otherwise limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in our business and the industry in which we operate and our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. These modifications could also require us to meet more stringent financial ratios and tests or could require us to grant a security interest in our assets to secure the indebtedness in the future. Our ability to comply with covenants contained in the instruments governing our existing and future indebtedness may be affected by events and circumstances beyond our control. If we breach any of these covenants, then one or more events of default, including defaults between multiple components of our indebtedness, could result and the payment of principal and interest due and payable on our outstanding senior notes may become accelerated. These events of default could permit our creditors to declare all amounts owing to be immediately due and payable, and terminate any commitments to make further extensions of credit. The lack of access to cost-effective capital resources, an increase in our financing costs, or a breach of debt instrument covenants, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or future results. A downgrade in our credit rating could also affect the value and marketability of our outstanding notes.Credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold investments in the rated entity. Ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the ratings agencies and there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our credit rating even if we meet or exceed their criteria, or that other credit rating agencies will assign us similar ratings.Our operating results and financial condition could be adversely impacted by challenging economic conditions.Our operating results and financial condition are sensitive to and dependent upon discretionary spending by guests, which may be affected by uncertainty in general economic conditions that could drive down demand for our products and result in fewer transactions or decreased average cheque per transaction at our restaurants. We cannot predict the timing or duration of challenging economic conditions or the timing or strength of a full economic recovery, and many of the effects and consequences of these conditions are currently unknown. Any one or all of them could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and/or capital resources.Our international operations are subject to various factors of uncertainty and there is no assurance that international operations will be profitable.In fiscal 2011, we granted a master license for the development of Tim Hortons restaurants in the GCC. The licensee is expected to open and operate up to 120 multi-format restaurants by 2016, which includes the 38 restaurant locations that were open for business by the end of 2013. In fiscal 2013, we granted a five year master license for the development of at least 100 multi-format restaurants in Saudi Arabia with the same licensee. There can be no assurance that our international licensee will satisfy its development commitments to open the number of Tim Hortons restaurants stated in the master license agreements. We may grant additional master licenses to licensees in other international markets in the future. International licensees may fail to meet their development commitments or may open restaurants more slowly than forecasted at the time such master license agreements are entered into, which would impact the level of expected financial return from such agreements.Expansion into new international markets carries risks similar to those risks described above relative to expansion into new North American markets, many of which may be more pronounced in markets outside Canada and the U.S. due to cultural, political, legal, economic, regulatory and other conditions and differences. In addition, our international business operations are subject to further legal, accounting, tax and regulatory risks associated with doing business internationally, including: tariffs, quotas, other trade protection measures; import or export regulations and licensing requirements; foreign exchange controls; restrictions on our ability to own or operate or repatriate profits from our subsidiaries, and/or make investments or acquire new businesses in foreign jurisdictions; difficulties in enforcement of contractual obligations governed by non-Canadian or non-U.S. law due to differing interpretation of rights and obligations in connection with international franchise or licensing agreements; difficulties collecting royalties from international restaurant owners; compliance with multiple and potentially conflicting laws; new and potentially untested laws and judicial systems; reduced or diminished protection of intellectual property; theft or misuse of our intellectual property; and our business partners’ compliance with anti-corruption laws.Catastrophic events may disrupt our business.Unforeseen events, including war, armed conflict, terrorism and other international, regional or local instability or conflicts (including labour issues), embargos, trade barriers, public health issues (including tainted food, food-borne illnesses, food tampering, or water supply or widespread/pandemic illness such as the avian, H1N1 or norovirus flu), natural disasters 27Table of Contentssuch as flooding, earthquakes, hurricanes, or other adverse weather and climate conditions, whether occurring in Canada, the U.S. or abroad, could disrupt our operations; disrupt the operations of our restaurant owners, licensees, suppliers, or guests; or, result in civil disturbances and political or economic instability. For instance, guests might avoid public gathering places in the event of a health pandemic, and local, regional, or national governments might limit or ban public gatherings to halt or delay the spread of disease. These events could reduce traffic in our restaurants and demand for our products; make it difficult or impossible to adequately staff our restaurants, receive products from suppliers, deliver products to our restaurant owners on a timely basis, or perform functions at the corporate level; and, otherwise impede our ability to continue our business operations in a manner consistent with the level and extent of our business activities prior to the occurrence of the unexpected event or events. The impact of a health pandemic, in particular, might be disproportionately greater on us than on other companies that depend less on the gathering of people for the sale of their products. Although some losses may be covered by insurance, if there are significant losses that are not covered, or there is a delay in receiving insurance proceeds, or the proceeds are insufficient to offset our losses fully, our consolidated financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected.Our articles, by-laws, shareholder rights plan and certain Canadian legislation contain provisions that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control.Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws, together or separately, could discourage potential acquisition proposals, delay or prevent a change in control, and limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay for our common shares. Our articles authorize our Board of Directors to issue an unlimited number of preferred shares, which are commonly referred to as “blank cheque” preferred shares and, therefore, our Board of Directors may designate and create the preferred shares as shares of any series and determine the respective rights and restrictions of any such series. The rights of the holders of our common shares will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred shares that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred shares could delay, deter, or prevent a change in control and could adversely affect the voting power or economic value of the common shares.In addition, our by-laws contain provisions that establish certain advance notice procedures for nomination of candidates for election as directors and for shareholder proposals to be considered at shareholders’ meetings. Furthermore, under these provisions, directors may be removed by the Board after its consideration of a majority shareholder vote at a meeting of shareholders. For a further description of these provisions, see our articles, by-laws, and the Canada Business Corporations Act.Pursuant to our shareholder rights plan (the “Rights Plan”), one right to purchase a common share (a “Right”) has been issued in respect of each of the outstanding common shares and an additional Right will be issued in respect of each additional common share issued prior to the Separation Time (as defined in the Rights Plan). The purpose of the Rights Plan is to provide holders of our common shares, and our Board of Directors, with the time necessary so that, in the event of a take-over bid (generally referred to as a “tender offer” in the U.S.) for our Company, alternatives to the bid which may be in the best interests of our Company are identified and fully explored. The Rights Plan can potentially impose a significant penalty on any person or group that acquires, or begins a tender or exchange offer that would result in such person acquiring, 20.0% or more of the outstanding common shares. See Exhibit 4(a) to this Report for reference to our Rights Plan, which is also described in more detail in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Report.The Investment Canada Act requires that a “non-Canadian,” as defined therein, file an application for review with the Minister responsible for the Investment Canada Act and obtain approval of the Minister prior to acquiring control of a Canadian business, where prescribed financial thresholds are exceeded. Otherwise, there are no limitations either under the laws of Canada or in our articles on the rights of non-Canadians to hold or vote our common shares.Any of these provisions may discourage a potential acquirer from proposing or completing a transaction that may have otherwise presented a premium to our shareholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.28Table of Contents 