Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as other information and data included in this report. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to the Business The network communications industry is highly competitive. HNS may be unsuccessful in competing effectively against other terrestrial and satellite-based network providers in its Network Equipment and Services and Consumer/SMB businesses. HNS operates in a highly competitive network communications industry in the sale and lease of both its products and its services. HNS’ industry is characterized by competitive pressures to provide enhanced functionality for the same or lower price with each new generation of technology. As the prices of HNS’ products decrease, HNS will need to sell more of its products and/or reduce its per unit costs to improve or maintain its operating results. HNS’ Network Equipment and Services business faces competition from providers of terrestrial-based networks (such as DSL, cable modem service, MPLS and Internet-based virtual private networks, or IP VPNs), which may have advantages over satellite networks for certain customer applications. Terrestrial-based networks are offered by telecommunications carriers and other large companies, many of which have substantially greater financial resources and greater name recognition than HNS does. The costs of a satellite network may exceed those of a terrestrial-based network, especially in areas that have experienced significant DSL and cable Internet build-out. It may become more difficult for HNS to compete with terrestrial providers as the number of these areas increase and the cost of their network and hardware services declines. To increase its competitiveness, HNS selectively has begun to pair its satellite offerings with terrestrial solutions, which may result in lower margins. HNS relies on third parties to implement the terrestrial component of these paired satellite/terrestrial solutions which means that HNS cannot control the implementation and rollout of these paired satellite/ terrestrial solutions to the same degree as its satellite only solutions. HNS also competes for enterprise clients with other satellite network providers, satellite providers that are targeting the SMB markets and smaller independent systems integrators on procurement projects. In Asia and Latin America, the build-out of terrestrial networks has adversely impacted demand for VSAT services and regulation and inequitable access remain barriers to new business. 30 Table of Contents The Consumer/SMB network communications market is highly competitive. HNS may be unsuccessful in competing effectively against DSL and cable service providers and other satellite broadband providers in its Consumer/SMB business. HNS faces competition for its North American Consumer/SMB satellite Internet subscribers primarily from satellite, DSL and cable Internet service providers. Also, other satellite and wireless broadband companies have launched or are planning the launch of consumer satellite Internet access services that would compete with it in North America. Some of these competitors may offer consumer services and hardware at lower prices than HNS. We anticipate increased competition with the entrance of these new competitors into HNS’ market and the increasing build-out and lowering cost of DSL and cable Internet access in North America. Terrestrial alternatives do not require HNS’ “external dish” which may limit customer acceptance of its products. HNS also will face competition from its former parent DIRECTV. For a description of this risk, see “—DIRECTV may compete with HNS in certain sectors and subject to certain conditions and, after April 22, 2006, will retain one of its marketing brand names.” If HNS is unable to develop, introduce and market new products, applications and services on a cost effective and timely basis, or if it is unable to sell its new products and services to existing and new customers, HNS’ business could be adversely affected. The network communications market is characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product introductions and evolving industry standards. If HNS fails to develop new technology or keep pace with significant industry technological changes, HNS’ existing products and technology could be rendered obsolete. Products in HNS’ industry are generally characterized by short life cycles because of technological innovation, such as increasing data rates, and declining prices. To remain competitive in the network communications market, HNS must be able to apply financial and technical resources to develop and introduce new products, applications and services, as well as enhancements to its existing products, applications and services. Even if HNS keeps up with technological innovation, it may not meet the demands of the network communications market. For example, HNS’ large enterprise customers may only choose to renew services with HNS at substantially lower prices or for a decreased level of service. Many of HNS’ large enterprise customers have existing networks available to them and may opt to find alternatives to HNS’ VSAT services or may renew with HNS solely as a backup network. If HNS is unable to respond to technological advances on a cost-effective and timely basis, or if HNS’ products or applications are not accepted by the market, then HNS’ business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Continued negative trends and factors affecting the telecommunications industry specifically and the economy in general may result in reduced demand and pricing pressure on HNS’ products and services. Negative trends and factors affecting the telecommunications industry specifically and the economy in general over the past several years have negatively affected HNS’ results of operations. The telecommunications sector has been facing significant challenges resulting from excess capacity, new technologies and intense price competition. As a result of the build-out of capacity by telecommunications companies in the late 1990s, currently there is excess network capacity. This capacity, combined with the failure of many competitors in the telecommunications sector, has contributed to price reductions by terrestrial and satellite network competitors in response to soft market conditions. In addition, weak economic conditions in the last recession resulted in reduced capital expenditures, reluctance to commit to long-term capital outlays and longer sales processes for network procurements by our customers. These factors have a continuing impact on HNS’ business. Finally, an overall trend toward industry consolidation and rationalization among HNS’ customers, competitors and suppliers can affect HNS’ business, especially if any of the sectors HNS services or the countries or regions that HNS does business in are affected. Any future weakness in the economy or the telecommunications industry would affect HNS through reduced demand for, and pricing pressure on, HNS’ products and services, leading to a reduction in revenues and a material adverse effect on HNS’ business and results of operations. 31 Table of Contents Satellite failures or degradations in satellite performance could affect HNS’ business, financial condition and results of operations. HNS leases satellite transponder capacity from fixed satellite service, or FSS, providers in order to send and receive data communications to and from HNS’ VSAT networks. Satellites are subject to in-orbit risks including malfunctions, commonly referred to as anomalies, and collisions with meteoroids, decommissioned spacecraft or other space debris. Anomalies occur as a result of various factors, such as satellite manufacturing errors, problems with the power systems or control systems of the satellites and general failures resulting from operating satellites in the harsh space environment. Any single anomaly or series of anomalies affecting the satellites on which HNS leases transponder capacity could materially adversely affect its operations and revenues and its relationships with current customers, as well as its ability to attract new customers for our satellite services. Anomalies may also reduce the expected useful life of a satellite, thereby creating additional expenses due to the need to provide replacement or backup capacity and potentially reducing revenues if service is interrupted on the satellites HNS utilizes. HNS may not be able to obtain backup capacity at similar prices, or at all. See “—The failure to adequately anticipate HNS need for satellite capacity or HNS’ inability to obtain satellite capacity could harm its results of operations.” In the event of a satellite failure, HNS’ services may be unavailable for several days to several weeks while backup in-orbit satellites are repositioned and services are moved or while HNS repositions its customers’ antennas to alternative satellites. HNS experienced one of these situations in late 2004 with one satellite on which HNS leases transponder capacity for service in North America. More recently, in August 2005 a satellite on which HNS leases transponder capacity to service certain customers in Europe experienced an outage lasting approximately nine hours. HNS’ European service provider has tested the satellite’s functionality and it appears normal although further anomalies are possible. In most instances, any relocation to an alternative satellite will require prior regulatory approval, which may not be obtained, or obtained in a timely manner. In addition, the entities from which HNS leases transponder capacity could be severely affected by anomalies affecting their satellites, which could result in disruption to the services they provide to HNS. An increased frequency of anomalies could impact market acceptance of HNS’services. Any failure on HNS’ part to perform its VSAT service contracts or provide satellite broadband access as a result of satellite failures would result in a loss of revenue despite continued obligations under its leasing arrangements, possible cancellation of its long-term contracts, inability to continue with its subscription-based customers, expenses to reposition customer antennas to alternative satellites and damage to its reputation which could negatively affect its ability to retain existing customers or gain new business. The cancellation of long-term contracts due to service disruptions is an exception to the generally non-cancelable nature of its contracts and such cancellation would reduce the revenue backlog previously described in this report. See “—The failure to adequately anticipate HNS’ need for satellite capacity or HNS’ inability to obtain satellite capacity could harm HNS’ results of operations.” The failure to adequately anticipate HNS’ need for satellite capacity or HNS’ inability to obtain satellite capacity could harm HNS’ results of operations. HNS has made substantial contractual commitments for satellite capacity based on its existing customer contracts and backlog as well as anticipated future business. If future demand does not meet HNS’ expectations, HNS will be committed to maintain excess satellite capacity for which HNS will have no or insufficient revenues to cover its costs, having a negative impact on its margins and results of operations. HNS’ transponder leases are generally for three to five years, and different leases cover satellites with coverage of different areas or other different features, so HNS cannot quickly or easily adjust its capacity to changes in demand. If HNS only purchases satellite capacity based on existing contracts and bookings, capacity for certain types of coverage in the future may be unavailable to HNS and it may not be able to satisfy certain needs of its customers, resulting in a loss of possible new business. At present, until launch and operation of additional satellites, there is limited availability of capacity on the Ku-band frequencies in North America. In addition, the FSS industry has seen consolidation in the past decade, and today the three main FSS providers in North America and a number of 32 Table of Contents smaller regional providers own and operate the current satellites that are available for HNS’ capacity needs. The failure of any of these FSS providers or a downturn in their industry as a whole could reduce or interrupt the capacity available to HNS. If HNS is not able to renew its capacity leases, if its needs for capacity increase prior to new capacity becoming available or if capacity is unavailable due to any problems of the FSS providers, HNS’ business and results of operation would suffer. HNS’ networks and those of its third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security risks. HNS expects the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks to continue to be a critical element of its operations. HNS’ networks and those of its third-party service providers and its customers may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, and other security problems. Persons who circumvent security measures could wrongfully obtain or use information on the network or cause interruptions, delays or malfunctions in HNS’ operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on HNS’ business, financial condition and operating results. HNS may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems, including reputational harm and litigation, caused by any breaches. In addition, HNS’ customer contracts, in general, do not contain provisions which would protect it against liability to third parties with whom its customers conduct business. Although HNS intends to continue to implement industry-standard security measures, these measures may prove to be inadequate and result in system failures and delays that could lower network operations center availability and have a material adverse effect on HNS’ business, financial condition and operating results. HNS faces new risks associated with its SPACEWAY satellite. HNS currently plans to launch its SPACEWAY satellite in early 2007 and introduce service later in 2007. In addition to the competitive risks for the satellite network services mentioned above, if HNS is unable to successfully launch and implement its SPACEWAY satellite as a result of any of the following risks, HNS will be unable to realize the anticipated benefits from its SPACEWAY satellite and its business and financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected: Ÿ Cost and schedule risks. The cost of completing HNS’ SPACEWAY satellite may be more than anticipated and there may be delays in completing the satellite within the expected timeframe. In connection with the completion, launch and launch insurance of HNS’ SPACEWAY satellite, it may be required to spend an amount of cash in excess of the approximately $121.7 million which HNS has budgeted for such purpose as of December 31, 2005. The construction and launch of satellites are often subject to delays, including satellite and launch vehicle construction delays, cost overruns, periodic unavailability of reliable launch opportunities, and delays in obtaining regulatory approvals. A significant delay in the delivery of HNS’ SPACEWAY satellite could materially adversely affect the marketing plan for service enabled by the satellite and would adversely affect HNS’ anticipated revenues and cash flows. If the remaining SPACEWAY construction schedule is not met, there may be even further delays because there can be no assurance that a launch opportunity will be available at the time the satellite is ready to be launched and HNS may not be able to obtain or maintain regulatory authority or ITU priority necessary to implement SPACEWAY as proposed. Ÿ Business plan. HNS’ SPACEWAY business plan may be unsuccessful and HNS may not be able to achieve the cost savings that it expects from the SPACEWAY satellite. A failure to attract the planned customers in a sufficient number would result in HNS’ inability to realize the cost savings that it expects to achieve from the anticipated lower costs of bandwidth associated with the capacity of SPACEWAY. In addition, HNS will incur startup losses associated with the launch and operation of SPACEWAY until it acquires a sufficient number of customers. Ÿ ITU priority for orbital location. The United Kingdom Office of Communications, or Ofcom, has filed at the ITU for several orbital locations, including 95.0° W.L., on HNS’ behalf and, the FCC has filed at the ITU for the 95.0° W.L. orbital location on our behalf. In addition, the Australian Communications and Media Authority, or ACMA, has filed at the ITU for the 95.0° W.L. orbital location on behalf of 33 Table of Contents both Kagoe Communications Pty Ltd, or Kagoe, an Australian company, and Miraxis License Holdings LLC, or MLH, a U.S. company. Certain principals of Apollo, our controlling investor, have a controlling investment in MLH. In addition, Mr. Jeffrey Leddy, a director of our company, is a director and the general manager of MLH and Mr. Andrew Africk, a director of our company, is a director of MLH. The ITU filings made on HNS’ behalf by Ofcom give it high ITU priority rights to use the 95.0° W.L. orbital location and the ITU filings made on our behalf by the FCC give us lower ITU priority rights to use that same orbital location. The ITU filing made on behalf of Kagoe and MLH by ACMA gives Kagoe and MLH joint ITU priority rights to use the 95.0° W.L. orbital location, which rights have higher priority than the ITU priority rights filed by Ofcom and the FCC. Kagoe and MLH will lose these joint ITU priority rights after January 31, 2008 unless, prior to this date, Kagoe and MLH have brought some or all of the frequencies identified in the ITU filing into use at this orbital location. HNS believes that it can reach a satisfactory business arrangement with Kagoe and MLH, which would include financial compensation, to operate SPACEWAY as planned at 95.0° W.L. There can be no assurance that such an agreement can be reached or that ACMA would consent to such an arrangement. Ÿ ITU coordination risk. HNS’ SPACEWAY spacecraft operations will also be subject to the frequency registration process of the ITU. A number of licensing administrations have ITU priority over the ITU filings that HNS may use for SPACEWAY by virtue of their having made earlier ITU submissions for networks that could experience interference from the operation of the SPACEWAY satellite. Coordination meetings have commenced relating to the ITU filings at 95.0° W.L. made by Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States. The ITU filings that HNS may use for SPACEWAY have not yet been fully coordinated with other ITU filings. ITU coordination activities may require a satellite system operator to reduce power, avoid operating on certain frequencies, relocate its satellite to another orbital location or otherwise modify planned or existing operations in order to protect systems with higher priority from interference. Any modifications HNS makes in the course of coordination, or any inability to successfully coordinate, could significantly limit the services that could be provided over the SPACEWAY satellite, which would materially adversely affect HNS’ ability to generate revenue. Ÿ FCC milestone risk. We currently hold a license issued by the FCC to operate a Ka-band geostationary satellite at 95.0° W.L. However, our current FCC license does not reflect the design of the SPACEWAY satellite. On March 6, 2006, we filed with the FCC an application to amend the pending modification to our FCC license to reflect the SPACEWAY design. The FCC has granted similar applications in the past. Our ability to maintain our FCC license is dependent upon its satisfaction of certain construction milestone requirements imposed by the FCC on satellite licensees, the next of which must be satisfied by April 19, 2006. We expect to request the FCC to treat the SPACEWAY satellite as the relevant spacecraft for purposes of satisfying these milestones and will certify to the FCC that the SPACEWAY satellite has completed the first three of four FCC milestones. If the FCC determines that the SPACEWAY satellite does not serve as the relevant satellite or does not conclude that the progress on the SPACEWAY satellite satisfies our April 19, 2006 milestone, or if we are unable to obtain an extension of the April 19, 2006 milestone date if needed, the FCC may declare our satellite license null and void. We cannot predict with certainty how the FCC will act on our amendment, if it will grant this application prior to the April 19, 2006 milestone requirement, or if it will grant an extension of that milestone requirement, if needed. Ÿ Regulatory license risk. The SPACEWAY satellite is primarily intended to provide services to North America. HNS’ SPACEWAY spacecraft operations will be subject to the licensing jurisdiction of the government whose ITU filing HNS uses to launch and operate the SPACEWAY satellite, and HNS will have to satisfy the licensing conditions imposed by the administration whose ITU filings HNS uses. As described above, there are several ITU filings for orbital locations which may be used for the SPACEWAY satellite. The current FCC license grants us the right to launch and operate a Ka-band geostationary satellite at 95.0° W.L. If HNS uses the ITU filing made by the FCC on our behalf, HNS will be required to reach an operational agreement with us, or to obtain FCC approval to transfer the FCC license from us to HNS. If HNS uses an ITU filing made by Australia or the United Kingdom, in 34 Table of Contents addition to seeking consent from Australia or a license from the United Kingdom, HNS will be required to seek additional FCC approvals to serve the United States with a foreign-licensed satellite, which approvals may not be obtained or may not be granted in a timely manner. In addition, the regulatory agencies of nations other than the United States that HNS may seek to serve from the 95.0° W.L. orbital location must also authorize the use of the SPACEWAY satellite, services and/or frequencies in their jurisdictions, and HNS has not yet applied for or received any such authority. Ÿ Launch risks. There are risks associated with the launch of satellites, including launch failure, damage or destruction during launch and improper orbital placement. Launch failures result in significant delays in the deployment of satellites because of the need both to construct replacement satellites, which can take up to 30 months, and obtain other launch opportunities. Only certain launch vehicles can lift and place into orbit spacecraft in the mass range of the SPACEWAY satellite, which further limits the launch opportunities for HNS’ SPACEWAY satellite. The overall historical loss rate in the satellite industry for all launches of commercial satellites in fixed orbits in the last five years is estimated by some industry participants to be 5% but may be higher. Ÿ In-orbit risks. HNS’ SPACEWAY satellite will be subject to similar potential satellite failures or performance degradations as other satellites. In-orbit risks similar to those described above under “—Satellite failures or degradations in satellite performance could affect HNS’ business, financial condition and results of operations” will apply to HNS’ SPACEWAY satellite. To the extent there is an anomaly or other in-orbit failure with respect to HNS’ SPACEWAY satellite, HNS will not have a replacement satellite or backup transponder capacity and would have to identify and lease alternative satellite capacity that may not be available on economic terms or at all. Additionally, HNS could be required to repoint the antennas of its customers, which could require new or modified licenses from regulatory authorities. Ÿ Insurance risks. HNS intends to seek launch and in-orbit insurance for its SPACEWAY satellite, but it may not be able to obtain insurance on reasonable economic terms or at all. If HNS is able to obtain insurance, it will contain customary exclusions and will not likely cover the full cost of constructing and launching HNS’ SPACEWAY satellite, nor will it cover business interruptions or similar losses. In addition, the occurrence of any anomalies on other satellites, including Ka band satellites, or on SPACEWAY, may materially adversely affect HNS’ ability to insure SPACEWAY at commercially reasonable premiums, if at all. Ÿ Novel design. HNS’ SPACEWAY satellite employs a complex and novel design intended for higher-speed data rates and greater bandwidth per network site. If the enhanced features of the satellite design do not function to their specifications, HNS may not be able to offer the functionality or throughput of transmission service that HNS expects for SPACEWAY. HNS’ separation from DIRECTV has required it to incur additional costs to operate as a stand-alone entity and HNS faces risks associated with the separation. Following the April 2005 Acquisition, HNS began providing for certain services as a stand-alone company that previously were provided, at least in part, by DIRECTV, including its own tax advisory services, treasury/cash management operations, risk management, audit, employee benefits and business insurance. In addition, as our principal subsidiary, HNS must implement financial and disclosure control procedures and corporate governance practices that enable us to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC rules. For example, HNS will need to further develop accounting and financial capabilities, including the establishment of an internal audit function and development of documentation related to internal control policies and procedures. Failure to quickly establish the necessary controls and procedures would make it difficult to comply with SEC rules and regulations with respect to internal control and financial reporting. Further, the actual costs of providing these services could exceed HNS’ expectations, which could have an adverse effect on HNS’ financial condition and results of operations. 35 Table of Contents DIRECTV may compete with HNS in certain sectors and subject to certain conditions and, after April 22, 2006, will retain one of HNS’ marketing brand names. While HNS has entered into a non-competition agreement with DIRECTV, DIRECTV has retained the right to compete with HNS in selling data services to consumers at all times and may compete with HNS in all areas after the five-year term of the non-competition agreement which commenced on April 22, 2005. In addition, while the non-competition agreement restricts DIRECTV from using its two SPACEWAY satellites for data service offerings that would directly compete with HNS, DIRECTV is not limited in such use if the video capability of its SPACEWAY satellites do not remain capable of commercial operations. Moreover, DIRECTV is not restricted from competing with HNS’ business if such data services are incidental to DIRECTV’s provision of a video service to an enterprise customer and are an integral part of such video service or are available as an optional add-on to such video service. In any event, DIRECTV may compete with HNS after the non-competition agreement expires on April 22, 2010. In addition, the rights to the DIRECWAY® brand name and any related trademark rights are being retained by DIRECTV. HNS has agreed to stop using the DIRECWAY® brand name and related trademark rights by April 22, 2006. As a result, HNS has developed a new brand name, HUGHESNET™, for its current VSAT products which will generate additional sales and marketing and general and administrative costs which HNS does not expect to be material. HNS’ new HUGHESNET™ brand name may lead to lessened customer identification of its products. HNS cannot determine what effect, if any, that its new HUGHESNET™ brand name will have on its sales and marketing efforts. HNS may face difficulties in obtaining regulatory approvals for its provision of telecommunications services, and HNS may face changes in regulation, each of which could adversely affect its operations. In a number of countries where HNS operates, the provision of telecommunications services is highly regulated. In such countries, HNS is required to obtain approvals from national and local authorities in connection with most of the services that HNS provides. In many jurisdictions, HNS must maintain such approvals through compliance with license conditions or payment of annual regulatory fees. As a provider of communications services in the United States, HNS is subject to the regulatory authority of the United States, primarily the Federal Communications Commission, or the FCC. HNS is subject to the export control laws, sanctions and regulations of the United States with respect to the export of equipment and services. Certain aspects of HNS’ business is subject to state and local regulation. As a provider of communications services in the European Union, HNS benefit from a liberalized and less-regulated environment. Nevertheless, HNS is still subject to registration and in some instances the payment of annual fees and/or the filing of annual status reports. In most instances, HNS is subject to regulation by the national communications regulatory authorities of other countries in which HNS, and under certain circumstances its distributors, provide service. While the governmental authorizations for HNS’ current business generally have not been difficult to obtain in a timely manner, the need to obtain particular authorizations in the future may delay HNS’ provision of current and new services. Moreover, the imposition by a governmental entity of conditions on HNS’ authorizations, or the failure to obtain authorizations necessary to launch and operate satellites or provide satellite service, could have a material adverse effect on HNS’ ability to generate revenue and conduct its business as currently planned. Violations of laws or regulations may result in various sanctions including fines, loss of authorizations and the denial of applications for new authorizations or for the renewal of existing authorizations. Future changes to the regulations under which HNS operates could make it difficult for HNS to obtain or maintain authorizations, increase its costs or make it easier or less expensive for its competitors to compete with it. See Item 1. “Business—Government Regulation.” 36 Table of Contents HNS’ international sales and operations are subject to applicable laws relating to trade, export controls and foreign corrupt practices, the violation of which could adversely affect its operations. HNS must comply with all applicable export control laws and regulations of the United States and other countries. United States laws and regulations applicable to HNS include the Arms Export Control Act, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, or ITAR, the Export Administration Regulations and the trade sanctions laws and regulations administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the United States Department of the Treasury, or OFAC. The export of satellite hardware, services and technical information with military or dual-use applications to non-United States persons is regulated by the United States Department of State’s Directorate of Defense Trade Controls under ITAR. Other items are controlled for export by the United States Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security, or the Bureau, under the Export Administration Regulations. In addition, HNS is subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, that, generally, bars bribes or unreasonable gifts to foreign governments or officials. Following a June 2004 voluntary disclosure by DIRECTV and DTV Networks, DIRECTV and DTV Networks entered into a consent agreement, which applies to HNS, with the U.S. Department of State in January 2005 regarding alleged violations of the ITAR. This consent agreement addresses exports of equipment and technology related to the VSAT business primarily to China but also to several other countries. As part of this agreement, DIRECTV paid a $4.0 million fine and one of HNS’ subsidiaries was debarred from conducting certain international business. HNS is now eligible to seek reinstatement and intends to do so in the near future. Also as part of the same consent agreement, a civil penalty of $1.0 million was assessed against HNS, which HNS is required to use for enhancing compliance measures to avoid future infractions. This amount will be applied by HNS to its compliance program over a three-year period. As a result of the voluntary disclosure and consent agreement, HNS is currently unable to perform its obligations under certain contracts in China and Korea addressed by the consent agreement and, if ultimately unable to perform, HNS may be liable for certain damages of up to approximately $5.0 million as a result of its non-performance. With respect to one such contract, HNS received notice in November 2005 that one of its customers in China filed a demand for arbitration with the International Center for Dispute Resolution, a division of the American Arbitration Association. The arbitration was stayed pending non-binding mediation. The non-binding mediation was completed in March 2006 and did not resolve the dispute. As a result, the arbitration is expected to resume. The January 2005 consent agreement supplemented another consent agreement of DIRECTV in March 2003, arising out of separate violations of ITAR. Further violations of laws or regulations may result in significant additional sanctions including fines, more onerous compliance requirements, more extensive debarments from export privileges or loss of authorizations needed to conduct aspects of HNS’ international business. A future violation of ITAR or the other regulations enumerated above could materially adversely affect HNS’ business, financial condition and results of operations. In 2002, the Department of Revenue Intelligence, or DRI, in India initiated an action against a former affiliate and customer of HNS, Hughes Tele.com (India) Ltd., or HTIL, relating to alleged underpayment of customs duty and misclassification of import codes. The DRI action was also directed against HNS and other HTIL suppliers whose shipments are the focus of that action. HTIL, renamed Tata Teleservices (Maharashtra) Ltd., TTML, after the Tata Group purchased HNS’ equity interest in December 2003, is the principal party of interest in this action. HNS, together with the other named suppliers, are potentially liable for penalties in an amount of up to five times the underpayment of duty if HNS is found to have aided HTIL in avoiding duty. In connection with HNS’ sale to the Tata Group, HNS did not indemnify TTML in relation to its own potential liability in this matter. Currently, the parties have filed replies to the DRI’s allegations and are engaged in a series of hearings to resolve the matter before a forum known as the Settlement Commission. HNS’ future success depends on its ability to retain its key employees. HNS is dependent on the services of its senior management team to remain competitive in its industry. The loss of one or more members of its senior management team could have an adverse effect on it until qualified replacements are found. We cannot assure you that these individuals could quickly be replaced with persons of 37 Table of Contents equal experience and capabilities. In addition, technological innovation depends, to a significant extent, on the work of technically skilled employees. Competition for executive, managerial and skilled personnel in HNS’ industry is intense. We expect to face continued increases in compensation costs in order to attract and retain senior executives, managers and skilled employees, especially if the current job economy continues to improve. HNS may not be able to retain its existing senior management, fill new positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover or attract or retain the management and personnel necessary to develop and market its products. HNS does not maintain key man life insurance on any of these individuals. HNS’ lengthy sales cycles could harm its results of operations if these sales are delayed or do not occur. The length of time between the date of initial contact with a potential customer and the execution of a contract with the potential customer may be up to two years, particularly for complex procurements of HNS’ VSAT systems. During any given sales cycle, HNS may expend resources in advance of the expected revenue from these contracts, resulting in an adverse effect on its operating results if the sale does not occur and the opportunity cost of having foregone alternative business prospects. Because HNS depends on being awarded large-scale contracts in competitive bidding processes, losing a modest number of bids could have a significant adverse effect on its operating results. In 2005, substantially all of HNS’ sales revenue in its network equipment and services business was derived from large-scale VSAT network contracts that were awarded to HNS following competitive bidding. These large-scale contracts can involve the installation of over 10,000 VSATs. The number of major procurements for VSAT-based networks in any given year is limited and the competition is intense. Losing a modest number of such bids each year could have a significant adverse effect on HNS’ operating results. In addition, HNS’ period to period results may fluctuate in any given year based on the timing of these large scale contracts. HNS has reported losses for three of the last four years and may incur losses in the future. For the three years ended December 31, 2002, 2003 and 2004, HNS generated net losses of $208.1 million, $157.0 million and $1,433.5 million, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2005, HNS had net income of $24.0 million. Although HNS’ revenues have grown in recent years, HNS may be unable to sustain such growth rates in light of changed market or economic conditions. In addition, any inability on HNS’ part to control costs could cause its business, financial condition and results of operations to suffer. HNS’ foreign operations expose it to risks and restrictions not present in its domestic operations. HNS’ operations outside the United States accounted for 32.1% of its revenue for the year ended December 31, 2005, and we expect its foreign operations to continue to represent a significant portion of its business. HNS has operations in Brazil, China, Germany, India, Indonesia, Italy, Mexico, the Russian Federation, South Africa, the United Arab Emirates and the United Kingdom, among other nations, and over the last 15 years HNS has sold products in over 100 countries. Foreign operations involve varying degrees of risks and uncertainties inherent in doing business abroad. Such risks include: Ÿ Complications in complying with restrictions on foreign ownership and investment and limitations on repatriation. HNS may not be permitted to own its operations in some countries and may have to enter into partnership or joint venture relationships. Many foreign legal regimes restrict HNS’ repatriation of earnings to the United States from its subsidiaries and joint venture entities. HNS may also be limited in its ability to distribute or access our assets by the governing documents pertaining to such entities. In such event, HNS will not have access to the cash flow and assets of HNS’ joint ventures. Ÿ Difficulties in following a variety of foreign laws and regulations, such as those relating to data content retention, privacy and employee welfare. HNS’ international operations are subject to the laws of many different jurisdictions that may differ significantly from United States law. For example, local political, or intellectual property law may hold HNS responsible for the data that is transmitted over its 38 Table of Contents network by its clients. Also, other nations have more stringent employee welfare laws that guarantee perquisites that HNS must offer. Compliance with these laws may lead to increased operations costs, loss of business opportunities or violations that result in fines or other penalties. See “Legal Proceedings.” Ÿ HNS faces significant competition in its international markets. Outside North America, HNS has traditionally competed for VSAT hardware and services sales primarily in Europe, Brazil, India and China and focused only on hardware sales in other regions. In Europe, HNS faces intense competition which is not expected to abate in the near future. Ÿ Changes in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the United States dollar. HNS conducts its business and incurs costs in the local currency of a number of the countries in which it operates. Accordingly, HNS’ results of operations are reported in the relevant local currency and then translated to United States dollars at the applicable currency exchange rate for inclusion in HNS’ financial statements. Because HNS’ foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures operate in foreign currencies, fluctuations in currency exchange rates have affected, and may in the future affect, the value of profits earned on international sales. In addition, HNS operates its business in countries that historically have been and may continue to be susceptible to recessions or currency devaluation, including Argentina and Indonesia in recent years. Ÿ Greater exposure to the possibility of economic instability, the disruption of operations from labor and political disturbances, expropriation or war. As HNS conducts operations throughout the world, HNS could be subject to regional or national economic downturns or instability, labor or political disturbances or conflicts of various sizes. Any of these disruptions could detrimentally affect HNS’ sales in the affected region or country or lead to damage to, or expropriation of, its property or danger to its personnel. Ÿ Competition with large or state-owned enterprises and/or regulations that effectively limit HNS’ operations and favor local competitors. Many of the countries in which HNS conducts business have traditionally had state owned or state granted monopolies on telecommunications services that favor an incumbent service provider. HNS faces competition from these favored and entrenched companies in countries that have not deregulated. The slower pace of deregulation in these countries, particularly in Asia and Latin America, has adversely affected the growth of HNS’ business in these regions. Ÿ Customer credit risks. Customer credit risks are exacerbated in foreign operations because there is often little information available about the credit histories of customers in the foreign countries in which HNS operates. HNS is dependent upon suppliers of components, manufacturing outsourcing, installation and customer service, and its results of operations may be materially affected if any of these third-party providers fail to appropriately deliver the contracted goods or services. HNS is dependent upon third-party services and products provided to it, including the following: Ÿ Components. A limited number of suppliers manufacture some of the key components required to build HNS’ VSATs. HNS cannot assure you of the continuous availability of key components and its ability to forecast its component requirements sufficiently in advance, which may have a detrimental effect on supply. If HNS was required to change certain suppliers for any reason, HNS would experience a delay in manufacturing its products if another supplier was not able to meet its requirements on a timely basis. In addition, if HNS is unable to obtain the necessary volumes of components on favorable terms or prices on a timely basis, HNS may be unable to produce its products at competitive prices and HNS may be unable to satisfy demand from its customers. Ÿ Manufacturing outsourcing. While HNS develops and manufactures prototypes for its products, HNS uses contract manufacturers to produce a significant portion of its hardware. If these contract manufacturers fail to provide products that meet its specifications in a timely manner, then HNS’ customer relationships may be harmed. 39 Table of Contents Ÿ Installation and customer support. Each of HNS’ North American and international operations utilize a network of third-party installers to deploy its hardware. In addition, a portion of HNS’ customer support and management is provided by offshore call centers. Since HNS provides customized services for its customers that are essential to their operations, a decline in levels of service or attention to the needs of its customers or the occurrence of negligent and careless acts will adversely affect HNS’ reputation, renewal rates and ability to win new business. HNS’ failure to develop, obtain or protect its intellectual property rights could adversely affect its future performance and growth. HNS’ success depends on its ability to develop and protect its proprietary rights to the technologies and inventions used in its services and products, including proprietary VSAT technology and related services and products. HNS relies on a combination of United States and foreign patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws as well as licenses, nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual agreements or restrictions to protect certain aspects of its business. HNS has registered trademarks and patents and has pending trademark and patent applications in the United States and a number of foreign countries. However, HNS’ patent and trademark applications may not be allowed by the applicable governmental authorities to issue as patents or register as trademarks at all, or in a form that will be advantageous to HNS. In addition, in some instances HNS may not have registered important patent and trademark rights in these and other countries. If HNS fails to timely file a patent application in any such country, HNS may be precluded from doing so at a later date. In addition, the laws of some countries do not protect and do not allow HNS to enforce its proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. As such, HNS’ intellectual property rights may not receive the same degree of protection in foreign countries as they would in the United States. Accordingly, HNS might not be able to protect its proprietary products and technologies against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could negatively affect HNS’ competitive position. HNS may fail to recognize opportunities to provide, maintain or enforce intellectual property protection for its business. Furthermore, HNS’ intellectual property may prove inadequate to protect its proprietary rights, may be infringed or misappropriated by others or may diminish in value over time. Competitors may be able to freely make use of HNS’ patented technology after its patents expire or may challenge the validity, enforceability or scope of its patents, trademarks or trade secrets. Competitors also may independently develop products or services that are substantially equivalent or superior to HNS’ technology. Further, HNS cannot assure you that competitors will not infringe its patents. In addition, it may be possible for third parties to reverse-engineer, otherwise obtain, copy, and use information that HNS regards as proprietary. If HNS is unable to protect its services and products through the enforcement of intellectual property rights, HNS’ ability to compete based on its current market advantages may be harmed. HNS also relies on unpatented proprietary technology. To protect HNS’ trade secrets and other proprietary information, HNS requires employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. HNS cannot assure you that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for its trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. If HNS fails to prevent substantial unauthorized access to its trade secrets, HNS risks the loss of those intellectual property rights and whatever competitive advantage they provide it. Claims that HNS’ services and products infringe the intellectual property rights of others could increase its costs and reduce its sales, which would adversely affect its revenue. HNS has in the past received, and may in the future receive, communications from third parties claiming that it or its products infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. HNS has also been named in the past, and may in the future be named, as a defendant in lawsuits claiming that its services or products infringe upon the intellectual property rights of third parties. Litigation may be necessary to determine the validity and scope of third-party rights or to defend against claims of infringement. Litigation may also be necessary to 40 Table of Contents enforce HNS’ intellectual property rights or to defend against claims that its intellectual property rights are invalid or unenforceable. Such litigation, regardless of the outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, including time and attention of management and other key personnel, and could have a material adverse effect on HNS’ business, financial condition and results of operations. HNS expects to be increasingly subject to such claims as the number of products and competitors in its industry grows. Many entities, including some of HNS’ competitors, have or may in the future obtain patents and other intellectual property rights that cover or affect products or services related to those that HNS currently offers or may offer in the future. In general, if a court determines that one or more of HNS’ services or products infringes on valid and enforceable intellectual property owned by others, HNS may be liable for money damages and may be required to cease developing or marketing those services and products, unless HNS obtains licenses from the owners of the intellectual property or redesigns those services and products in such a way as to avoid infringing on those intellectual property rights. If a third-party holds intellectual property rights, it may not allow HNS to use its intellectual property at any price, or on terms acceptable to HNS, which could materially adversely affect HNS’ competitive position. HNS may not be aware of all intellectual property rights that its services or products may potentially infringe. Further, without lengthy litigation, it may not be possible to determine definitively whether a claim of infringement is valid. HNS cannot estimate the extent to which it may be required in the future to obtain intellectual property licenses or the availability and cost of any such licenses. Those costs, and their impact on HNS’ earnings, could be material. Damages in patent infringement cases may also include treble damages in certain circumstances. To the extent that HNS is required to pay royalties to third parties to whom it is not currently making payments, these increased costs of doing business could materially adversely affect its operating results. In addition, under some of HNS’ agreements with customers, HNS is not permitted to use all or some of the intellectual property developed for that customer for other customers, and in other cases, HNS has agreed not to provide similar services to such customers’ competitors. Further, HNS’ service agreements with its customers generally provide that it will defend and indemnify them for claims against them relating to HNS’ alleged infringement of third-party intellectual property rights with respect to services and products HNS provides. Third-parties may assert infringement claims against its customers. These claims may require HNS to initiate or defend protracted and costly litigation on behalf of its customers, regardless of the merits of these claims. If any of these claims succeed, HNS may be forced to pay damages on behalf of its customers or may be required to obtain licenses for the products they use. If HNS cannot obtain all necessary licenses on commercially reasonably terms, HNS’ customers may be forced to stop using its products. In addition, HNS’ patents, trademarks and other proprietary rights may be subject to various attacks claiming they are invalid or unenforceable. These attacks might invalidate, render unenforceable or otherwise limit the scope of the protection that its patents, trademarks and other rights afford it. If HNS loses the use of a product name or brand name, its efforts spent building that brand may be lost, and HNS will have to rebuild a brand for that product, which HNS may or may not be able to do, and which would cause it to incur new costs in connection with building such brand name. If HNS is involved in a patent infringement suit, even if it prevails, there is no assurance that third-parties will not be able to design around its patents, which could harm its competitive position. If HNS is unable to license technology from third parties on satisfactory terms, its development costs could increase and HNS may not be able to deploy its services and products in a timely manner. HNS depends, in part, on technology that it licenses from third parties on a non-exclusive basis and integrates into its products and service offerings. Licenses for third-party technology that HNS uses in its current products may be terminated or not renewed, and HNS may be unable to license third-party technology necessary for such products in the future. Furthermore, HNS may be unable to renegotiate acceptable third-party license terms to reflect changes in its pricing models. Changes to or the loss of a third-party license could lead to an increase in the costs of licensing or inoperability of products or network services. In addition, technology licensed from third parties may have undetected errors that impair the functionality or prevent the successful 41 Table of Contents integration of HNS’ products or services. As a result of any such changes or loss, HNS may need to incur additional development costs to ensure continued performance of its products or suffer delays until replacement technology, if available, can be obtained and integrated. If HNS’ products contain defects, HNS could be subject to significant costs to correct such defects and its product and network service contracts could be delayed or cancelled, which could expose HNS to significant liability and significantly reduce its revenues. HNS’ products and the networks it deploys are highly complex, and some may contain defects when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released, despite extensive testing and its quality control procedures. In addition, many of HNS’ product and network services are designed to interface with its customers’ existing networks, each of which has different specifications and utilizes multiple protocol standards. HNS’ products and services must interoperate with the other products and services within its customers’ networks as well as with future products and services that might be added to these networks to meet its customers’ requirements. The occurrence of any defects, errors or failures in its products or network services could result in incurrence of significant costs to correct such defects, cancellation of orders, a reduction in revenue backlog, product returns, diversion of HNS’ resources, legal actions by its customers or its customers’ end users, including for damages caused by a defective product, the issuance of credits to customers and other losses to HNS or to its customers or end users. If HNS’ products and network services do not perform their intended function, customer installations could be delayed or orders for its products and services could be cancelled, which could significantly reduce HNS’ revenues. Any of these occurrences could also result in the loss of or delay in market acceptance of HNS’ products and services and loss of sales, which would harm its reputation and its business and adversely affect HNS’ revenues and profitability. In addition, HNS’ insurance would not cover the cost of correcting significant errors, defects, design errors or security problems. Risks Related to HNS’ Indebtedness HNS’ high level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund HNS’ operations and could limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or HNS’ industry. On April 13, 2006, HNS completed an offering, or the Notes Offering, of $450.0 million of 9 1/2% senior notes due 2014, or Senior Notes. HNS is significantly leveraged and its total indebtedness on a pro forma basis would have been approximately $503.3 million as of December 31, 2005 after giving effect to the completed Notes Offering, the application of the net proceeds therefrom, and the January 2006 Acquisition. For a discussion of HNS’ completed Notes Offering see Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—(b) Hughes Network Systems LLC—Future Liquidity Requirements.” HNS’ substantial degree of leverage could have important consequences, including the following: Ÿ it may limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; Ÿ a substantial portion of HNS’ cash flows from operations will be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on its indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes, including its operations, capital expenditures, investments in new technologies and future business opportunities; Ÿ the debt service requirements of HNS’ indebtedness could make it more difficult for it to satisfy its financial obligations; Ÿ it may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place HNS and us at a competitive disadvantage compared to its and our competitors that have less debt or more financial resources; and Ÿ We may be vulnerable in a downturn in general economic conditions or in HNS’ business, or we may be unable to carry out capital spending that is important to our growth. 42 Table of Contents Covenants in HNS’ debt agreements will restrict HNS’ and our business in many ways. HNS’ debt agreements contain various covenants that limit HNS’ ability and/or certain of its subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: Ÿ incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness; Ÿ issue redeemable stock and preferred stock; Ÿ incur liens; Ÿ pay dividends or distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock; Ÿ prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; Ÿ make loans and investments; Ÿ enter into agreements that restrict distributions from its subsidiaries; Ÿ sell assets and capital stock of our subsidiaries; Ÿ enter into certain transactions with affiliates; Ÿ consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person; and Ÿ enter into new lines of business. HNS’ credit facilities contain, among other things, the restrictive covenants described above. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under HNS’ credit facilities. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under HNS’ credit facilities, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under its credit facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If HNS were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under its credit facilities could proceed against the collateral that secures that indebtedness. HNS has pledged a significant portion of its assets as collateral under the credit facilities. In addition, we have pledged all of our membership interests of HNS as collateral under HNS’ credit facilities. If the lenders under HNS’ revolving credit facility accelerate the repayment of borrowings, no assurance can be given that HNS will have sufficient assets to repay its credit facilities and other indebtedness. We are a holding company and the inability of our subsidiaries to pay distributions or dividends or transfer funds or other assets to us would harm our ability to pay future dividends. We are a holding company. Our principal assets are membership interests of HNS and cash. Although we do not currently intend to pay dividends on our shares of common stock for the foreseeable future (see “Risks Relating to our Common Stock Generally—”We do not intend to pay dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future”), in the event that we wished to pay dividends, we would be primarily reliant on distributions or dividends from our subsidiaries to pay such dividends. The ability of HNS to pay us distributions or transfer funds or other assets is subject to the terms of HNS’ debt agreements which contain covenants which, among other things, limit the ability of HNS and certain of its subsidiaries to pay dividends or distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock. Such limitations could harm our ability to pay future dividends, if any. 43 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Distribution and Separation from SkyTerra Our historical financial information is not necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved as a stand-alone company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. The historical financial information of Hughes Communications included herein does not reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows we would have achieved as a stand-alone company during the periods presented or those we will achieve in the future. This is primarily a result of the fact that our historical financial information does not reflect the results of HNS, our principal subsidiary, which is accounted for since the April 2005 Acquisition using the equity method. For a description of the basis of presentation of our historical consolidated financial information, see Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—(a) Hughes Communications, Inc.” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—(b) Hughes Networks Systems, LLC” and our and HNS’ financial statements included elsewhere in this report. We may incur significant liability to SkyTerra pursuant to the indemnification provisions of the separation agreement. The separation agreement provides that we will indemnify SkyTerra and its affiliates against potential losses based on, arising out of or resulting from: Ÿ the ownership or the operation of the assets or properties transferred to us under the separation agreement, and the operation or conduct of the business of, including contracts entered into and any activities engaged in by, us, whether in the past or future; Ÿ any other activities we engage in; Ÿ any guaranty or keepwell of or by SkyTerra provided to any parties with respect to any of our actual or contingent obligations; Ÿ certain claims for violations of federal securities laws that could arise out of or relate to the business of SkyTerra, provided that any claims based on this indemnity are initiated prior to one year following a change of control of SkyTerra and that we are not indemnifying SkyTerra in respect of matters in respect of which it has expressly indemnified us or for violations which result from information provided to SkyTerra by the MSV Joint Venture or TerreStar; Ÿ any breach by us of the separation agreement or any other agreement between us and SkyTerra; Ÿ any failure by us to honor any of the liabilities assumed by us under the separation agreement; or Ÿ other matters described in the separation agreement. The transitional and separation arrangements with SkyTerra are not the result of arm’s-length negotiations. We currently have contractual arrangements which require SkyTerra to provide transitional services and shared arrangements to us and under which we agree to indemnify SkyTerra, and SkyTerra agrees to indemnify us, for specified matters in the context of the separation resulting from the Distribution. These agreements were made in the context of a parent-subsidiary relationship and were negotiated in the overall context of the Distribution. Accordingly, the terms of these agreements may be less advantageous to, or more burdensome on, us than the terms which would have resulted had the negotiations been arm’s-length. 44 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Generally There may be a limited public market for our common stock, our stock price may experience volatility and our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which limits the liquidity and could negatively affect the value of our common stock. An active trading market for our common stock may not develop or be sustained in the future. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Changes in earnings estimates by analysts, if any, and economic and other external factors may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock. Fluctuations or decreases in the trading price of our common stock may adversely affect the liquidity of the trading market for our common stock. Further, price quotations for our common stock are available on the OTC Bulletin Board. Generally, quotation on the OTC Bulletin Board will render our common stock less liquid than stocks listed on national securities exchanges. This lack of liquidity may adversely affect our ability to raise capital through future equity financing. Fluctuations in our operating results could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: Ÿ risks and uncertainties affecting the current and proposed business of HNS and the broadband satellite industry; Ÿ increased competition in the broadband satellite industry; Ÿ competition in the VSAT business; and Ÿ general economic conditions. As a result of these possible fluctuations, period-to-period comparisons of our financial results may not be reliable indicators of future performance. Future sales of our shares could depress the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. As of April 12, 2006, 18,734,954 shares of our common stock were outstanding. All such shares are freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act except for any such shares held at any time by any of our “affiliates,” as such term is defined under Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act. In connection with the Distribution, certain holders of stock options to purchase shares of SkyTerra’s common stock received stock options to purchase our common stock under the 2006 Equity and Incentive Plan. See Item 11. “Executive Compensation Director and Executive Compensation—2006 Equity and Incentive Plan.” In addition, we expect to terminate the HNS bonus unit plan and issue shares of restricted common stock or options to purchase shares of our common stock under the 2006 Equity and Incentive Plan, in lieu of the existing bonus units. The exercise price of such options will be the closing price of our common stock on the date of grant. We filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act to register all of the shares of common stock issued or reserved for issuance under our 2006 Equity and Incentive Plan. Accordingly, shares of common stock registered under any such registration statement and issued upon exercise of such stock options will be available for sale in the open market, unless such shares of common stock are subject to vesting restrictions. We may have to issue additional shares of our common stock to satisfy the Class B membership interests of HNS, which on January 1, 2007, the one year anniversary of the January 2006 Acquisition, may be exchanged for 45 Table of Contents our common stock, subject to our Board’s authorization, with the number of shares of our common stock to be issued upon such exchange based upon the fair market value of such vested Class B membership interest divided by the value of our common stock at the time of such exchange. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from assisting HNS and our other businesses in revenue-generating activities to compliance activities, which could harm our business prospects. Apollo beneficially owns a majority of our voting stock. As of April 12, 2006 Apollo owned in the aggregate 12,408,610 shares, or 66.2%, of our outstanding common stock. Therefore, Apollo has control over our management and policies, such as the election of our directors, the appointment of new management and the approval of any other action requiring the approval of our stockholders, including any amendments to our certificate of incorporation and mergers or sales of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, the level of Apollo’s ownership of our shares of common stock and these rights could have the effect of discouraging or impeding an unsolicited acquisition proposal. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 