ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Future results of our operations involve a number of known and unknown risks and uncertainties. Factors that could affect future operating results and cash flows and cause actual results to vary materially from historical results include, but are not limited to those risks set forth below: Risks Associated with our Business We are a development stage company with no operating history and very limited resources. We are a development stage company with no operating results to date. Since we do not have an operating history, you have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to acquire an operating business. We are currently in the process of identifying and evaluating prospective target businesses; however, we may be unable to complete a business combination. As described in this report, we will not generate any revenue until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. We cannot assure you that a business combination will occur. If we spend all of the proceeds from our initial public offering not held in trust and interest income earned up to $3,000,000 on the balance of the trust account that may be released to us to fund our working capital requirements in seeking business combination, but fail to complete such a combination, we will never generate any operating revenues. The report of the independent registered public accounting firm that audited our financial statements includes a “going concern” explanatory paragraph due to the possibility that we may not consummate a business combination within the required time frame, which will require us to dissolve and liquidate. The audit report in our financial statements for the year ended July 31, 2008, includes an explanatory paragraph that states that due to the possibility that a business combination may not be consummated within the required timeframe, there is “substantial doubt” about our ability to continue as a going concern. We must complete a business combination with a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets at the time of acquisition by May 31, 2009. If we are forced to liquidate and distribute the trust account before a business combination, our public stockholders may receive less than $8.00 per share and our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete a business combination within the prescribed time frames and are forced to liquidate our assets, the per-share liquidation distribution may be less than $8.00 because of the expenses of our initial public offering and potential claims against the trust. Furthermore, there will be no distribution with respect to our outstanding warrants which will expire worthless if we liquidate before the completion of a business combination. If we are unable to consummate a business combination, our public stockholders will be forced to wait until May 31, 2009 before receiving liquidation distributions. We have until May 31, 2009 to complete a business combination. We have no obligation to return funds to investors prior to such date unless we consummate a business combination prior thereto and only then in cases where investors have sought conversion of their shares. Only after the expiration of this full time period will public stockholders be entitled to liquidation distributions if we are unable to complete a business combination. Accordingly, investors’ funds may be unavailable to them until such date. You are not entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies. Since the net proceeds of our initial public offering are intended to be used to complete a business combination with a target business that has not been identified, we may be deemed to be a “blank check” company under the United States securities laws. However, since we have net tangible assets in excess of $5,000,000 and have filed a Current Report on Form 8-K with the SEC upon consummation of our initial public offering including audited financial statements demonstrating this fact, we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC to protect investors of blank check companies such as Rule 419. Accordingly, investors are not afforded the benefits or protections of those rules, such as completely restricting the transferability of our securities until the consummation of a business combination, requiring us to complete a business combination within 18 months of the effective date of the initial registration statement and restricting the use of interest earned on the funds held in the trust account. Because we are not subject to Rule 419, our units are immediately tradable, we are entitled to withdraw a certain amount of interest earned on the funds held in the trust account prior to the completion of a business combination and we have a longer period of time to complete such a business combination than we would if we were subject to such rule. 13 Because there are numerous companies with a business plan similar to ours seeking to effectuate a business combination, it may be more difficult for us to complete a business combination. Based upon publicly available information, we have identified 161 blank check companies which have gone public in the United States since August 2003, of which 56 have as of September 1, 2008 completed a business combination. Of the remaining 105 blank check companies, 56 have more than $11.3 billion in trust and are seeking to complete business combinations, while twenty companies have either dissolved or announced their intention to dissolve and return funds to investors. Of the 85 companies seeking to complete a business combination, only 29 companies have announced that they have entered into either a definitive agreement or a letter of intent for a business combination but not yet consummated them. Furthermore, there are a number of additional offerings for blank check companies that are still in the registration process but have not completed initial public offerings and there are likely to be more blank check companies filing registration statements for initial public offerings after the date of this report and prior to our completion of a business combination. While some of the blank check companies must complete their respective business combinations in specific industries, a number of them may consummate their business combinations in any industry they choose. Therefore, we may be subject to competition from these and other companies seeking to consummate a business combination. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully for an attractive business combination. Additionally, because of this competition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectuate a business combination within the required time period. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per-share distribution received by stockholders could be less than $8.00 per share. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we attempt to have all vendors, prospective target businesses or other entities we engage, execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust fund for the benefit of the holders of our common stock, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements or that even if they execute such agreements that they would be prevented from bringing claims against the trust fund. Nor is there any guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and will not seek recourse against the trust fund for any reason. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to distribute the proceeds held in trust to our public common stock holders Messrs. Gary D. Engle and James A. Coyne have agreed that they are personally liable to ensure that the proceeds in the trust fund are not reduced by the claims, if any, of target businesses or of vendors or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or contracted for or products sold to us and that have not executed an agreement waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust. We have questioned these individuals and reviewed their financial information and believe that each of these individuals has a substantial net worth. As a result, and because of the significant limitations on their indemnification obligations described above, we believe that these individuals will be able to satisfy their indemnification obligations. However, we cannot assure you that this will be the case. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims which could take priority over the claims of the holders of our common stock sold in our initial public offering. We cannot assure you that the per-share distribution from the trust fund will not be less than $8.00 due to claims of creditors. Additionally, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, the proceeds held in the trust fund could be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the trust fund, we cannot assure you that we will be able to return to our public stockholders at least $8.00 per share. Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that we will continue in existence only until May 31, 2009. If we have not completed a business combination by such date and amended this provision in connection thereto, pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, our corporate existence will cease except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating. Under Sections 280 through 282 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. If the corporation complies with certain procedures set forth in Section 280 of the Delaware General Corporation Law intended to ensure that it makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. However, it is our intention to make liquidating distributions to our stockholders as soon as reasonably possible after May 31, 2009 and, therefore, we do not intend to comply with those procedures. Because we will not be complying with those procedures, we are required, pursuant to Section 281 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, to adopt a plan that will provide for our payment, based on facts known to us at such time, of (i) all existing claims, (ii) all pending claims and (iii) all claims that may be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years. Accordingly, we would be required to provide for any creditors known to us at that time or those that we believe could be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years prior to distributing the funds held in the trust to stockholders. We cannot assure you that we will properly assess all claims that may be potentially brought against us. As such, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them (but no more) and any liability of our stockholders may extend well beyond the third anniversary of the date of distribution. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our stockholders amounts owed to them by us. 14 If we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, any distributions received by stockholders could be viewed under applicable debtor/creditor and/or bankruptcy laws as either a “preferential transfer” or a “fraudulent conveyance.” As a result, a bankruptcy court could seek to recover all amounts received by our stockholders. Furthermore, because we intend to distribute the proceeds held in the trust account to our public stockholders promptly after May 31, 2009, this may be viewed or interpreted as giving preference to our public stockholders over any potential creditors with respect to access to or distributions from our assets. Furthermore, our board may be viewed as having breached their fiduciary duties to our creditors and/or may have acted in bad faith, and thereby exposing itself and our company to claims of punitive damages, by paying public stockholders from the trust account prior to addressing the claims of creditors. We cannot assure you that claims will not be brought against us for these reasons. Since our search and selection of a target business with which to complete a business combination is not limited to any particular industry, we cannot currently ascertain the merits or risks of the business which we may ultimately acquire or the industry in which we may ultimately operate. We may consummate a business combination with a company in any industry we choose and are not limited to any particular industry or type of business. There is no current basis for you to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the particular industry in which we may ultimately operate or the target business which we may ultimately acquire. If we complete a business combination with an entity with a poorly focused business plan or unresolved liabilities, we are subject to the risks that we will not be able to successfully implement a more beneficial business plan or improve the target business’ operating results following the business combination or favorably resolve any unresolved liabilities. To the extent we complete a business combination with a financially unstable company or an entity in its development stage, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of those entities. If we complete a business combination with an entity in an industry characterized by a high level of risk, we may be affected by the currently unascertainable risks of that industry. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular industry or target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. We may issue shares of our capital stock or debt securities to complete a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our certificate of incorporation, as amended, authorizes the issuance of up to 100,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $.0001 per share, and 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.0001 per share. As of October 3, 2008 there were 34,580,000 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants and the purchase option granted to HCFP/Brenner Securities, the representative of the underwriters) and all of the 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. Although we have no commitments as of the date of this report to issue our securities, we will, in all likelihood, issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, to the shareholders of a potential target or in connection with a related simultaneous financing to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: · may significantly reduce the equity interest of investors in our initial public offering; · may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded to our common stockholders; · will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards, if any, and most likely also result in the resignation or removal of some or all of our present officers and directors; and · may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. We may issue debt securities or incur indebtedness to complete a business combination, which could subject us to risks relating to leverage. If we issue debt securities or borrow money in connection with a business combination, it could result in: · default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination were insufficient to pay our debt obligations; · acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due if the debt security contains covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves and any such covenant is breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; · our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; and · our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security is outstanding. 15 Our ability to effect a business combination successfully and to be successful afterwards is totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, some of whom may join us following a business combination and whom we would have only a limited ability to evaluate. Our ability to effect a business combination successfully is totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. Because there are many factors which can influence the decision of each member of management whether to remain with us following a business combination, some of which may be personal to each individual and therefore cannot be anticipated by us, the future role of our key personnel in the target business cannot presently be ascertained. Although we expect Messrs. Engle and Coyne to remain with us in senior management or advisory positions following a business combination, we may employ other personnel following the business combination. Moreover, management will only be able to remain with the company after the consummation of a business combination if members of management are able to negotiate employment or consulting agreements in connection with the business combination. Such negotiations would take place simultaneously with the negotiation of the business combination and could provide for such individuals to receive compensation in the form of cash payments and/or securities for services they would render to the company after the consummation of the business combination. While the personal and financial interests of such individuals may cause them to have a conflict of interest in determining whether a potential business combination is appropriate for us and influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business, the ability of such individuals to remain with the company after the consummation of a business combination will not be the determining factor in our decision as to whether or not we will proceed with any potential business combination. While we intend to closely scrutinize any additional individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such requirements. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues. Because our officers and directors allocate their time to other businesses, it could interfere with our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. All of our officers and directors are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours to our affairs. If their other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could interfere with our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers, directors and senior advisors may in the future become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented to. While our officers and directors do not currently have any obligations to present potential business combination opportunities to any other “blank check” company, such individuals are affiliated with other businesses and as a result may have similar legal obligations for presenting business opportunities to such entities as well as to our company. Additionally, our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with entities, including other “blank check” companies, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. Our officers and/or directors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as the other entities to which they have fiduciary obligations. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Additionally, our senior advisors have fiduciary obligations to the other entities with which they serve as directors or officers, and they have no fiduciary obligations to us. Therefore, they have no obligation to present business opportunities to us at all and will only do so if the other entities decline those opportunities first. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. All of our officers and directors own shares of our common stock and warrants. These shares and warrants will not participate in liquidation distributions and, therefore, our officers and directors may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination. All of our officers and directors own shares of our common stock and warrants. Such individuals have waived their right to receive distributions with respect to their initial shares upon our liquidation if we are unable to consummate a business combination. Accordingly, the shares of common stock acquired by our officers and directors prior to our initial public offering, as well as any warrants owned by our officers or directors will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. The personal and financial interests of our directors and officers may influence their motivation in timely identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination. Consequently, our directors’ and officers’ discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest. 16 We will proceed with a business combination only if public stockholders owning less than 30% of the shares sold in our initial public offering exercise their conversion rights. We will proceed with a business combination only if public stockholders owning less than 30% of the shares sold in our initial public offering exercise their conversion rights. Accordingly, approximately 29.99% of the public stockholders may exercise their conversion rights and we could still consummate a proposed business combination. As a result, this may have the effect of making it more likely that we could consummate a proposed business combination even when a significant number of public stockholders have voted against such transaction. We have set the conversion percentage at 30% in order to reduce the likelihood that a small group of investors holding a block of our stock will be able to stop us from completing a business combination that may otherwise be approved by a large majority of our public stockholders. Our business combination may require us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price. In such a case, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise such conversion rights, we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their conversion rights than we expect. Additionally, even if our business combination does not require us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, if a significant number of stockholders exercise their conversion rights, we will have less cash available to use in furthering our business plans following a business combination and may need to arrange third party financing. We have not taken any steps to secure third party financing for either situation. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such third party financing on terms favorable to us or at all. The American Stock Exchange may delist our securities from quotation on its exchange which could limit our securityholders ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities are listed on the American Stock Exchange, a national securities exchange. We cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the American Stock Exchange in the future prior to a business combination. Additionally, in connection with our business combination, it is likely that the American Stock Exchange may require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the American Stock Exchange delists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: · a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; · a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; · a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and · a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. Initially, we are able to complete only one business combination, which will cause us to be solely dependent on a single business and a limited number of products or services. Our initial business combination must be with a target business, or of a controlling interest (but not less than a majority of the voting interest) therein, with a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets at the time of such acquisition. Consequently, currently, we have the ability to complete only a single business combination, although this may entail the simultaneous acquisitions of several closely related operating businesses. By consummating a business combination with only a single entity, our lack of diversification may subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the particular industry in which we may operate subsequent to a business combination. Further, we would not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be: · solely dependent upon the performance of a single business; or · dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. 17 Alternatively, if our business combination entails the simultaneous acquisitions of several operating businesses and with different sellers, each seller must agree that the purchase of its business is contingent upon simultaneous closings of the other acquisitions which may make it more difficult for us, and delay our ability, to complete the business combination. If we were to consummate a business combination with several operating businesses, we could also face additional risks, including burdens and costs with respect to possible multiple negotiations and due diligence investigations (if there are multiple sellers) and the additional risks associated with the subsequent assimilation of the operations and services or products of the acquired companies into a single operating business. If we are unable to adequately address these risks, we may not be able to achieve the optimal result of the merger, including improving productivity, efficiencies, profitability and operating results. Because of our limited resources and structure, we may not be able to consummate an attractive business combination. We expect to encounter intense competition from other entities with business objectives similar to ours, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds and operating businesses competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe that there are numerous potential target businesses that we could acquire with the net proceeds of our initial public offering, our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses is limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Further, the obligation we have to seek stockholder approval of a business combination may delay the consummation of a transaction, and our obligation to convert into cash the shares of common stock in certain instances may reduce the resources available for a business combination. Additionally, our outstanding warrants, and the future dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. Any of these factors may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. The fact that only 56 of the 161 blank check companies that have gone public in the United States from August 2003 through September 1, 2008 have completed a business combination and 29 of such companies have entered into either a definitive agreement or a letter of intent for a business combination, while twenty companies have either dissolved or announced their intention to dissolve, may indicate that many privately held target businesses are not inclined to enter into a business combination with a blank check company. If we are unable to consummate a business combination with a target business within the prescribed time period, we will be forced to liquidate. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular business combination. Although we believe that the net proceeds of our initial public offering are sufficient to allow us to consummate a business combination, in as much as we have not yet identified any prospective target business, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the proceeds of our initial public offering prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination or the depletion of the available net proceeds in search of a target business, or because we become obligated to convert into cash a significant number of shares of common stock from dissenting stockholders, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could prevent or severely limit the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers would make it more difficult to find a suitable company for a business combination which makes it more likely that we will be required to distribute the proceeds of our trust fund to our public stockholders. Our ability to effect a business combination successfully is largely dependent upon the efforts of our executive officers. We have not entered into an employment agreement with any of our executive officers, nor have we obtained any “key man” life insurance on any of their lives. The loss of any or all of their services could have a material adverse effect on our ability to successfully achieve our business objectives, including seeking a suitable target business to effect a business combination. 18 Our outstanding warrants and option may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and warrants and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. We have issued warrants to purchase 34,822,500 shares of common stock, which includes the warrants we issued in our initial public offering and our insider warrants. We have also issued an option to purchase 1,250,000 units to the representative of the underwriters which, if exercised, will result in the issuance of an additional 1,250,000 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase 1,250,000 shares of common stock. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants and option could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business as such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the business combination. Accordingly, our warrants and option may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the securities underlying the warrants and option could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future public financing. If and to the extent these warrants and option are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. If our initial stockholders or the purchasers of the insider warrants exercise their registration rights with respect to their initial shares or insider warrants and underlying securities, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect a business combination. Our initial stockholders are entitled to make a demand that we register the resale of their initial shares at any time commencing three months prior to the date on which their shares are released from escrow. Additionally, the purchasers of the insider warrants are entitled to demand that we register the resale of their insider warrants and underlying shares of common stock at any time after we consummate a business combination. If such individuals exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their securities, then there will be an additional 6,250,000 shares of common stock and 5,975,000 warrants (as well as 5,975,000 shares of common stock underlying the warrants) eligible for trading in the public market. The presence of these additional shares of common stock trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the target business, as the stockholders of the target business may be discouraged from entering into a business combination with us or may request a higher price for their securities because of the potential effect the exercise of such rights may have on the trading market for our common stock. An effective registration statement may not be in place when you desire to exercise your warrants, thus precluding you from being able to exercise your warrants and causing such warrants to be practically worthless. No warrant held by public stockholders or issuable upon exercise of the representative’s purchase option is exercisable and we are not obligated to issue shares of common stock unless at the time a holder seeks to exercise such warrant, a prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrant is current. Under the terms of the warrant agreement, we have agreed to use our best efforts to meet these conditions and to maintain a current prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants until the expiration of the warrants. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so, and if we do not maintain a current prospectus related to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants, holders will be unable to exercise their warrants, we will not be required to settle any such warrant exercise. If the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not current, the warrants held by public stockholders or issuable upon exercise of the representative’s purchase option may have no value, the market for such warrants may be limited, such warrants may expire worthless and you have already paid the full purchase price of the unit solely for the shares included in the unit. In no event are we required to net cash settle the exercise of the warrants. Even if the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is not current, the warrants issued to our initial stockholders may be exercisable for unregistered shares of common stock. You are able to exercise a warrant only if the issuance of common stock upon such exercise has been registered or qualified or is deemed exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. No warrants will be exercisable and we are not obligated to issue shares of common stock unless the common stock issuable upon such exercise has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. At the time that the warrants become exercisable (following our completion of a business combination), we expect to continue to be listed on a national securities exchange, which would provide an exemption from registration in every state. Accordingly, we believe holders in every state will be able to exercise their warrants as long as our prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is current. However, we cannot assure you of this fact. As a result, the warrants may be deprived of any value, the market for the warrants may be limited and the holders of warrants may not be able to exercise their warrants if the common stock issuable upon such exercise is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside. Our initial stockholders, including our officers, directors and senior advisors, control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. Our initial stockholders (including all of our officers, directors and senior advisors) collectively own approximately 17% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock. In addition, Gary D. Engle, James A. Coyne, Jonathan Davidson and Brian Kaufman have entered into an agreement with HCFP/Brenner Securities pursuant to which such individuals, or entities they control, will place limit orders for an aggregate of $15 million of units commencing 30 calendar days after we file a preliminary proxy statement seeking approval of our holders of common stock for a business combination and ending 30 days thereafter. Each of Messrs. Engle, Coyne, Davidson and Kaufman may vote the shares of common stock included in these units on a proposed business combination in any manner they choose. Accordingly, our officers and directors may influence actions requiring a stockholder vote, including a business combination. 19 Our board of directors is divided into three classes, each of which generally serves for a term of three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. It is unlikely that there will be an annual meeting of stockholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of a business combination, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office until at least the consummation of the business combination. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of our “staggered” board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election and our initial stockholders, because of their ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome. Accordingly, our initial stockholders continue to exert control at least until the consummation of a business combination. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. A company that, among other things, is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily, or proposes to engage primarily, in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, trading or holding certain types of securities would be deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Since we have invested the proceeds held in the trust fund, it is possible that we could be deemed an investment company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we do not believe that our principal activities subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940. To this end, the proceeds held in trust may be invested by the trustee only in United States “government securities” as such term is defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, and one or more selected by us, which invest principally in either short-term securities issued or guaranteed by the United States having a rating in the highest investment category granted thereby by a nationally recognized credit rating agency at the time of acquisition or short-term exempt municipal bonds issued by governmental entities located within the United States and otherwise meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If, however, we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, we may be subject to certain restrictions that may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination, including: · restrictions on the nature of our investments; and · restrictions on our issuance of securities. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: · registration as an investment company; · adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and · reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. Compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expenses for which we have not allotted. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 