Risk Factors Certain information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, particularly information regarding future economic performance and finances, plans, expectations and objectives of management, is forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In some cases, information regarding certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from any such forward-looking statement appears together with such statement. A forward-looking statement is neither a prediction nor a guarantee of future events or circumstances, and those future events or circumstances may not occur. Investors should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Report. The Company is under no obligation to update or alter any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by applicable law. These forward-looking statements are all based on currently available operating, financial, and competitive information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties. The Company’s actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed below. Many of the factors that will determine the Company’s future performance are beyond our ability to control or predict. The following risks could materially affect the Company’s business, stock price, financial condition, and/or future results, including causing the Company to (i) close restaurants, (ii) fail to satisfy debt obligations, (iii) cease paying dividends, (iv) have insufficient cash to meet current obligations and/or to fund expansion activities, and (v) otherwise fail to perform as expected. Investors should carefully consider these risks and the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, and/or operating results. Throughout these risk factors, the words “include”, “including” or words of similar effect mean “include, without limitation” or “including, without limitation”, as applicable. The quick service restaurant segment is highly competitive, and competition could lower revenues, margins, and market share. The quick service restaurant segment of the foodservice industry is intensely competitive. Tim Hortons restaurants compete with international, regional and local organizations primarily through the quality, variety and value perception of food products offered. Other key competitive factors include the number and location of restaurants, quality and speed of service, attractiveness of facilities, effectiveness of advertising and marketing programs, price, and new product development by the Company and its competitors. Some of the Company’s competitors have substantially larger marketing budgets, which may provide them with a competitive advantage. In addition, the Company’s system competes within the food service market and the quick service restaurant segment not only for customers but also for management and hourly employees, suitable real estate sites and qualified franchisees. If the Company is unable to maintain its competitive position, it could experience downward pressure on prices, lower demand for products, reduced margins, an inability to take advantage of new business opportunities and the loss of market share. The Company continues to face intense competition in Southern New England and failure to establish the Tim Hortons brand in these markets in the near future will result in a viability review for some or all of these markets. The Company continues to face intense competition from one highly–penetrated competitor in the Southern New England market, and restaurants in this market are not performing at a level expected by the Company based on the length of time since the New England acquisition in 2004. Because most of these restaurants continue to perform below expectations, and they are not yet generating adequate returns on the capital invested, the Company has not yet franchised most of these restaurants. The Company continues, but has slowed, 15 Table of Contents development of restaurants in the Southern New England market; however, it has re-evaluated the locations for new restaurants in these markets. If the Company is not able to establish its brand such that customer traffic and average same-store sales for restaurants in these markets improve, the Company will review the long-term viability of restaurants located in certain of these markets. The Company’s ability to increase same-store sales is affected by a number of economic and other factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s ability to control. The ability of the Company to grow or maintain same-store sales is a critical factor affecting the Company’s operating income, and the health and viability of the franchise network. A number of factors could impact the Company’s ability to increase or maintain same-store-sales, including: • reports, whether true or not, of food-borne illness (such as e-coli, avian flu, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, hepatitis A, trichinosis or salmonella), injuries caused by food tampering, and employee hygiene and cleanliness failures (even if not related to the Company or occurring at the Company’s restaurants), any of which could impact the Company’s brand reputation or the restaurant system generally; • changing demographic patterns and trends, including neighborhood or economic conditions, traffic patterns, and rising real estate prices, which may cause current restaurant locations to become unattractive or not as profitable; • changing consumer preferences and spending patterns or a desire for a more diversified menu, particularly if this results in a decreased desire for coffee and baked goods or a demand for other food products not sold by Tim Hortons restaurants; • changing health or dietary preferences and perceptions, including relating to baked goods sold by Tim Hortons restaurants that contain high levels of fat and sugar and may be considered harmful to the health of consumers, and an increase in a trend towards foods that do not contain, or that are low in, trans fatty acids and other fatty substances; • labour shortages in the areas in which the Company operates or intends to open new restaurants, particularly in Western Canada where the Company has experienced difficulty in hiring and retaining sufficient staff to operate existing restaurants on their typical schedules; • increased labour and benefit costs due to competition, increased minimum wage requirements and employee benefits; increased costs due to general inflation, food and other supply costs; and costs of legal and regulatory compliance, which could all result in upward pressure on pricing at the restaurant level, which increased pricing could, in turn, reduce same-store sales if the higher prices result in fewer customers visiting system restaurants; • inclement weather, natural disasters and other acts of God, and other calamities; • the type, number and location of competing restaurants; sales promotions by competing restaurants; and, changes in competitive and economic conditions generally; • seasonal effects on demand for Tim Hortons products; and • changes in general economic and political conditions (including war and terrorist activities). If any of the foregoing events occurred, it is possible that the Company would not achieve its targeted same-store sales growth and, if this were to happen, sales and profit growth would be adversely affected. Failure to successfully implement the Company’s growth strategy could reduce, or reduce the growth of, revenue and net income and have a negative impact on the Company’s operations; Execution of the growth strategy through strategic initiatives and investments exposes the Company to additional risk. The Company plans to increase the number of Tim Hortons restaurants in Canada and the U.S. through internal growth and potentially through strategic initiatives (such as acquisitions and joint ventures). However, 16 Table of Contents the Company may not be able to achieve its growth objectives, new restaurants may not be profitable and strategic initiatives may not be successful and may expose the Company to various risks. The opening and success of restaurants depends on various factors, including: • competition from other quick service restaurants in current and future markets and same-store sales levels at existing restaurants; • the Company’s degree of saturation and sales in existing markets, and the identification and availability of suitable and economically viable locations; • less consumer familiarity with the brand and differing consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns in new markets; • the negotiation of acceptable lease or purchase terms for new locations, including rising real estate prices; • the ability to meet development and construction schedules, which is particularly dependent on permitting and regulatory compliance and the availability of construction materials and labour, particularly in Western Canada; • governmental regulations, including environmental regulations banning drive-thrus or imposing idling restrictions in drive-thrus, which are limiting the Company’s ability to develop restaurants with drive-thrus in certain locations; • the availability of qualified franchisees and their financial and other development capabilities (including their ability to obtain acceptable financing); • zoning and land use restrictions in areas where the Company would like to place new restaurants; • the Company’s ability to hire and train qualified management and operations personnel; and • interest rates and costs affecting land and construction, including rental costs, and the availability of borrowed funds for the Company and its franchisees. The risks associated with strategic initiatives undertaken in connection with restaurant expansion include those listed above, as well as the following risks that also apply more generally to other types of strategic (and operating) initiatives and investments undertaken by the Company: • overestimating the value, future growth potential, strengths, and potential profitability of the acquisition opportunity or investment (including additional investments in existing operational divisions and/or joint ventures to expand activities and business growth); or, underestimating the weaknesses, contingent and other liabilities of acquisition or investment opportunities; • the potential loss of key personnel of an acquired business; • the failure to achieve projected economic and operating synergies in connection with an acquisition or expansion of existing business relationships or activities; • difficulties successfully integrating, operating, maintaining and managing newly-acquired or expanded operations and/or employees and diverting current management’s attention from existing operations; and • difficulties maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies. If the Company is unable to open as many new restaurants as it plans, if the restaurants the Company opens are less profitable than it anticipates, if the Company is otherwise unable to successfully implement its growth strategy, or if strategic initiatives the Company implements are not successful, the Company’s revenue and profitability may grow more slowly or even decrease. Also, the Company’s progress in opening new restaurants from quarter-to-quarter may occur at an uneven rate, which may result in quarterly sales and profit growth falling short of market expectations in some periods. In addition to the foregoing, the Company may not be able to complete desirable transactions due to various covenant and agreement restrictions with its lenders, joint venture partners, and Wendy’s. 17 Table of Contents The Company may not effectively expand its presence in the U.S., where the Company’s brand is not as well known and where competitive conditions and markets may differ from those to which the Company is accustomed. The Company plans to continue expanding in the U.S., including into areas where customers are unfamiliar with the Company’s brand. The Company will need to build brand awareness in those markets through greater investments in advertising and promotional activity than in comparable Canadian markets, and those activities may not promote its brand as effectively as intended, if at all. Many of the U.S. markets into which the Company intends to expand will have competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns that differ from the Company’s existing markets. The Company may need to adapt its brand and its restaurants to those markets. Those markets may have lower average unit sales and may have higher construction, occupancy or operating costs than existing Tim Hortons restaurants. Sales and profits at restaurants opened in new markets may take longer to reach expected levels or may never do so. In addition, in U.S. markets where Tim Hortons restaurants are less profitable, the Company could have difficulty finding qualified U.S. franchisees willing to participate in its expansion. This could limit the Company’s ability to expand or could dilute the quality of the Company’s franchisees, either of which would likely hurt revenue growth and operating results. The Company also currently provides financing support to new U.S. franchisees; if U.S. restaurants are not successful, the Company may have to expand its financing support programs or extend financing on more generous terms, either of which could increase the Company’s costs and thus decrease net income. The Company’s distribution operations and supply chain are subject to pressures and risks, many of which are outside of its control, that could reduce the profitability of the Company’s operations. The success of the Company’s distribution operations and supply chain may be impacted by various factors, some of which are beyond the control of the Company, that could injure the Company’s brand, cause a loss of revenues and/or increase costs, including: • transportation and/or shipping costs, including but not limited to fuel costs (and/or fuel shortages) for the Company’s fleet of trucks and trailers or increased costs of third-party transportation companies engaged by the Company, that deliver to system restaurants from the Company’s five distribution centers; • inclement weather, which could affect the cost and timely delivery of ingredients and supplies; • ramp-up costs associated with major investments in the Company’s distribution operations, including the delays in the full implementation of frozen distribution from the Guelph distribution facility because of unanticipated challenges with training, recruitment and the implementation of certain systems; • shortages or interruptions in the supply of perishable food products that meet the Company’s specifications, for a variety of reasons, could affect the availability, quality and cost of ingredients; • price fluctuations in the Company’s supplies, most notably coffee (which is particularly volatile both in terms of price changes and available supply), due to various market factors, including seasonal shifts, inclement weather, industry demand and international commodity markets, with heightened risk exposure because, typically, neither the Company nor its joint ventures have written contracts or long-term arrangements with suppliers of raw materials (such as coffee and sugar); and • exchange rate fluctuations may cause the price of goods to increase or decrease for the Company and its franchisees — for example, a decrease in the value of the Canadian dollar compared to the U.S. dollar would proportionately increase the cost of coffee beans, which are traded in U.S. dollars, for the Company’s Canadian restaurants. 18 Table of Contents As a result of the difficulties associated with the full implementation of frozen distribution from the Guelph distribution center, the Company will continue to incur higher distribution costs without the full benefit of new distribution revenues. Any further delay will increase the impact of these higher distribution costs on the Company’s results of operations. The Company is also dependent on certain third party suppliers and joint ventures for some of the products sold at the Company’s restaurants. The Maidstone Bakeries facility, which is operated by a 50-50 joint venture between the Company and a subsidiary of IAWS, supplies all of the Company’s par-baked donuts and Timbits and a significant portion of the Company’s other bread products to system restaurants. The agreements governing the joint venture contemplate various procedures giving rise to the termination of the Company’s participation in the joint venture, including a compulsory buy/sell procedure (which either party may initiate after March 6, 2006), a right of first offer/refusal, the occurrence of specified events, referred to as “triggering events,” and pursuant to written consent of the other party. Under certain circumstances, the Company may be required to purchase these products at a higher cost, build its own facility to manufacture these products, or find alternative products and/or production methods, any of which would result in significant start-up and other costs to the Company. Due to the proprietary nature of the manufacturing process, alternative suppliers for the full line of the Company’s donuts and Timbits are not readily available, although there are alternate suppliers for certain of the par-baked donuts and bread products. As a result, if the facility’s operations were to be negatively impacted by an unexpected event, system restaurants might not be able to provide all of their donuts, Timbits and, until other suppliers are engaged, certain of their par-baked bread products to their customers for a period of time, which could injure the Company’s relationships with its franchisees as well as customers’ perception of the Company and its brand. This would likely adversely affect the Company’s growth strategy and results of operations. The Company has retained the right to continued use of its recipes for donuts and Timbits manufactured by the joint venture after a termination of the joint venture. IAWS could, after termination of the joint venture agreements, build its own par-baked goods manufacturing facility using its independent rights to the par-baking technology, and, under certain circumstances, manufacture and sell par-baked donuts to the Company’s competitors, provided it did not use the Company’s recipes. In addition to the foregoing, the Company’s purchase rights, which generally extend for seven years from the termination of the joint venture agreements, could expire before the expiration of seven years if a triggering event has occurred with respect to the Company, and IAWS took action to terminate the Company’s supply agreement with the joint venture. The Company’s earnings and business growth strategy depends in large part on the success of the franchisees; Actions taken by the franchisees may harm the Company’s brand reputation; and Changes in franchise laws and regulations could affect the Company’s relationships with its franchisees. A substantial portion of the Company’s earnings come from royalties and other amounts paid by franchisees, who operated 96.9% of the total number of Tim Hortons restaurants as of December 31, 2006. The Company’s franchisees are independent contractors and, as a result, the quality of operations of some of our franchisees may be diminished by any number of factors beyond the Company’s control. Some franchisees may not successfully operate stores in a manner consistent with the Company’s standards and requirements and may not train qualified managers and other restaurant personnel. Any operational shortcoming of a franchise restaurant is likely to be attributed by consumers to the Company’s entire system, thus damaging the Company’s brand reputation and potentially affecting revenues and profitability. In addition, the Company’s franchisees are affected by general economic conditions and other factors that impact the success of the Company’s business, as described above with respect to risk factors affecting same-store sales, execution of growth strategies, etc. If a significant number of franchisees were to experience financial difficulty; were unwilling or unable to pay the Company for food and supplies purchased or for royalties, rent or other fees; or were to fail to enter into renewals of franchise or license agreements with the Company; the Company’s revenues and profits would decrease and the Company’s brand reputation could be harmed. In addition, the ability of franchisees to finance the equipment and renovation costs or improvements and additions to existing restaurants, and the acquisition by the Company 19 Table of Contents of restaurants from, or sale of restaurants to, franchisees, are affected by economic conditions, including interest rates and the cost and availability of borrowed funds. The Company’s franchise system is also subject to franchise laws and regulations enacted by a number of provinces and states and rules promulgated by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission. Any new legislation or failure to comply with legislation may negatively affect operations, and could add administrative costs and burdens associated with these regulations, all of which could affect the Company’s relationship with its franchisees. The Company’s costs for 2007 will likely be higher in connection with differences between actual and allocated costs from Wendy’s and as a result of continuing to add the resources necessary for the Company to operate as a stand-alone public company. The Company’s historical financial information for fiscal 2005 and earlier has been derived from the consolidated financial statements of Wendy’s. The Company was not operated as a stand-alone company during this time, and therefore, the historical results do not necessarily reflect what the Company’s financial position, results of operations, cash flows, costs or expenses would have been had the Company been a separate, stand-alone company during the periods presented, or what the Company may achieve in the future. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for additional information regarding how amounts for those historical periods were allocated to the Company. As a public company, the Company has incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that the Company did not directly incur in the past as a private subsidiary of a public company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules implemented by the SEC, Canadian securities regulatory authorities and the NYSE may require adjustments in the Company’s corporate governance practices. The Company expects these rules and regulations to increase its legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. In addition, the Company is still adding all of the necessary resources to comply with these regulations and that are otherwise required in connection with being a stand-alone public company. All of the foregoing will cause the Company’s costs to be higher than the historical costs associated with these areas reflected in the historical consolidated financial statements. The Company must satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in connection with the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 30, 2007. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires any company subject to the reporting requirements of the U.S. securities laws to perform a comprehensive evaluation of its and its subsidiaries’ internal controls over financial reporting. The Company’s compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and comparable requirements of Canadian securities laws will first be reported on in connection with the filing of the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 30, 2007. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing, and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards under the rules. The costs of documentation, testing and remediation could be significant. During the course of its testing, management may identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies which may not be remedied in time to meet the deadline imposed by the SEC rules implementing Section 404 and comparable requirements of Canadian securities regulations. If management cannot favourably assess the effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting or the Company’s auditors identify material weaknesses in the Company’s internal controls, investor confidence in the Company’s financial results may weaken, and the share price may suffer. 20 Table of Contents The Company relies extensively on computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage the business and disruptions in these systems could harm the Company’s ability to run its business and impact Sarbanes-Oxley 404 compliance; Some financial processing has manual elements and maintaining and/or converting these systems to automated processes exposes the Company to financial reporting risk and Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 risk. The Company relies heavily on computer systems in managing financial results. In addition, computer systems are integral to retail operations at system restaurants, in the Company’s distribution facilities, including, in particular, the Guelph facility, which is more highly automated than the other distribution centres, and at Maidstone Bakeries. The Company’s systems, as well as Maidstone Bakeries’ systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security branches, catastrophic events and usage by employees. Also, if the Company’s electronic payment systems are damaged or cease to function properly, the Company may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, and the Company may suffer interruptions in its operations in the interim. Furthermore, the introduction of credit payment systems, if this occurs, could cause the Company to be susceptible to external security breaches as well, which could harm the Company’s operations and reputation. Since the date of the Company’s IPO, the Company has received from Wendy’s hosting services for the Company’s general ledger and U.S. fixed asset subledger. Under the terms of the shared services agreement, these services are terminable on twelve months notice. The Company received a twelve-month termination notice from Wendy’s on December 27, 2006. The Company is currently negotiating with Wendy’s regarding an extension of these information technology services until March 2008. The Company is also taking steps to implement a new general ledger system and U.S. fixed asset subledger prior to the Wendy’s termination date (December 28, 2007). If Wendy’s does not or is unable to perform its obligations under the shared services agreement with respect to the information technology services during the remaining time required, or if the Company and Wendy’s are not able to agree upon terms for an extension of these services for the additional time being requested by the Company (through March 2008), the Company will be required to provide these services itself or to obtain substitute arrangements with third parties. The Company may be unable to implement substitute arrangements on a timely basis on terms that are favourable to the Company. Although the Company will be simultaneously implementing its own systems, the Company considers it advisable to maintain the Wendy’s systems as the systems of record for the information technology services provided by Wendy’s for year-end 2007. The Company is aware of risks associated with bringing systems online in the last quarter of a reporting period, including with respect to Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 compliance. Certain of the Company’s financial reporting processes are not part of an integrated financial reporting system, which adds additional labour hours and administrative costs to operate, manage, and control these systems. The Company is working to transition most of these processes to an integrated financial reporting system. The conversion of these systems and processes may expose the Company to greater risk, including risks associated with maintaining internal controls and Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 compliance, as the data is transitioned and new systems are brought online. The Company’s business is subject to various governmental and other regulations, and its failure to comply with existing or future regulations could expose the Company to litigation, damage the Company’s brand reputation and lower profits; The Company is exposed to litigation risk in connection with its activities. The Company and its franchisees are subject to various federal, state, provincial and local laws affecting its and their businesses. The types of regulations that affect the operations of the Company and its franchisees include: • regulations relating to zoning, land use (including the placement of drive-thru windows), environmental (discussed below), and traffic, which affect the successful development and operation of restaurant sites; • regulations regarding health, food preparation, sanitation and safety, labour laws (including minimum wage, overtime, working conditions and citizenship), laws preventing discrimination in the workplace 21 Table of Contents and laws affecting the design of facilities (such as the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and similar Canadian legislation); • regulations regarding nutritional disclosure and advertising, such as requirements to provide information about the nutritional content of the Company’s food, and regulations regarding the nature of the nutritional content, such as limits on or the elimination of trans fatty acids; • regulations regarding environmental matters, including those limiting vehicle emissions in drive-thrus, anti-idling bylaws, litter, packaging requirements (e.g. requiring greater use of recyclable materials), and recycling (e.g. including requirements to contribute to the cost of residential blue box programs in Ontario, Canada, or similar programs in the U.S., even if local recycling plants are not able to process the Company’s packaging); • regulations relating to the discharge, storage, handling, release and/or disposal of hazardous and toxic substances, particularly with respect to certain of the Company’s operations (e.g. distribution) and with respect to restaurant locations which were formerly gas stations or which are adjacent to gas stations; and • rules, regulations or applicable policies or guidance resulting in a change in the Company’s applicable accounting rules, policies, or estimates that are imposed by governmental regulators, private governing bodies, or professional organizations. Compliance with all of these laws and regulations results in increased costs to the Company. In addition, new and existing laws may negatively impact customers’ perceptions of the Company’s products, thereby decreasing consumer demand. There may be new laws implemented in the future or environmental liabilities discovered at the Company’s properties which could result in increased compliance costs to the Company. Furthermore, failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, particularly in the area of the environment, could result in governmental action or litigation, significant fines or other costs or damage to the Company’s brand reputation, all of which could decrease profits and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company may also be subject to claims of illness or injury relating to food quality or food handling from customers from time-to-time. In addition, class action lawsuits have been filed in the past, and may continue to be filed, against quick service restaurants alleging, among other things, that quick service restaurants have failed to disclose the health risks associated with their products. These types of claims could impact the Company’s brand reputation, hindering the Company’s ability to attract and retain qualified franchisees and grow the business. The Company may also be subject to claims from employees from time-to-time relating to employment or labour matters or from stockholders relating to the conduct of the business. All of these types of matters distract management and, if successful, could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in the value of the Canadian and U.S. dollars can affect the value of the Company’s common stock and any dividends the Company pays, as well as the Company’s revenues and earnings. The majority of the Company’s operations, restaurants, income, revenue and cash flows are in Canadian dollars, and the Company is primarily managed in Canadian dollars. Although the Company’s financial statements are presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, the Company reports, and will report, its results in Canadian dollars, and, therefore, Canadian dollar results drive the Company’s earnings per share. The Company’s earnings per share may be translated into U.S. dollars by analysts and others. Given the foregoing, the value of an investment in the Company’s common stock to a U.S. stockholder may fluctuate as the U.S. dollar rises and falls against the Canadian dollar. In addition, dividend declaration by the Company is contingent upon results of the Company reported in Canadian dollars, and the Company declares its dividends in Canadian dollars. As a result, U.S. and other shareholders seeking U.S. dollar total returns, including increases in the stock price and dividends paid, are subject to foreign exchange risk as the U.S. dollar rises and falls against the Canadian dollar. 22 Table of Contents If the U.S. dollar falls in value relative to the Canadian dollar, then the Company’s U.S. operations would be less profitable because (i) U.S. system operating costs would increase because those restaurants purchase certain of their supplies from Canadian sources, and (ii) any profits reported by the Company’s U.S. segment would contribute less to consolidated Canadian dollar earnings because of the weaker U.S. dollar. Exchange rate fluctuations may also cause the price of goods to increase or decrease for the Company and its franchisees. The Company may not be able to adequately protect its intellectual property, which could decrease the value of its brand and branded products. The success of the Company’s business depends on its continued ability to use its existing trademarks, service marks and other components of the Company’s brand in order to increase brand awareness and further develop branded products in both the U.S. and Canadian markets. The Company may not be able to adequately protect its trademarks, and use of these trademarks may result in liability for trademark infringement, trademark dilution, or unfair competition. All of the steps the Company has taken to protect its intellectual property in the U.S. and in Canada may not be adequate. In addition, the Company relies on its proprietary product delivery platform and par-baking technology to support its franchisees’ business and its growth strategies. The Company has not filed applications for or obtained patents for its par-baking technology, and patents have not been obtained for most of the par-baking technology used by the Company’s joint venture with IAWS. If a competitor obtains a patent for, co-opts or more successfully implements the joint venture’s proprietary techniques or technologies, the Company’s operations and growth could be harmed, and the Company may be forced to defend one or more patent-infringement claims or assertions. The Company and/or the joint venture with IAWS may from time to time be required to institute litigation to enforce its trademarks or other intellectual property rights, or to protect its trade secrets or proprietary techniques and technologies. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect sales, profitability and prospects regardless of whether the Company and/or the joint venture is able to successfully enforce its rights. The Company’s ownership and leasing of significant amounts of real estate exposes it to possible liabilities, losses, and risks. As of December 31, 2006, the Company owned the land and/or building, or leased the land and/or the building, for approximately 81.2% of the Company’s 3,047 system restaurants. Accordingly, the Company is subject to all of the risks associated with owning and leasing real estate. In particular, the value of the Company’s assets could decrease, and/or costs could increase, because of changes in the investment climate for real estate, demographic trends and supply or demand for the use of the restaurants, which may result from competition from similar restaurants in the area, as well as liability for environmental contamination, as further discussed above. The Company leases land generally for initial terms of 10 to 20 years. Many leases provide that the landlord may increase the rent over the term of the lease. Most leases require the Company to pay all of the cost of insurance, taxes, maintenance, and utilities. The Company generally cannot cancel these leases. If an existing or future store is not profitable, and the Company decides to close it, the Company may nonetheless be committed to perform its obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying the base rent, taxes, and common area expenses for the balance of the lease term. In addition, as each of the Company’s leases expires, the Company may fail to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause the Company to close stores in desirable locations. 23 Table of Contents The Company’s credit facilities restrict the Company’s ability to finance operations and capital needs, make acquisitions and engage in other business activities. The Company’s credit facilities include restrictive covenants that, among other things, restrict the Company’s ability to: • incur additional debt; • pay dividends; • make certain acquisitions and investments; • repurchase equity; • create liens; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • enter into sale-leaseback transactions; • dispose of all or substantially all of the Company’s assets; and • merge or consolidate with another entity. These restrictions may limit the Company’s financial flexibility, prohibit or limit any contemplated strategic initiatives, and limit the Company’s ability to grow and increase revenues or respond to competitive changes. In addition, events beyond the Company’s control could cause it to breach these restrictive covenants. If the Company fails to comply with the terms and covenants in any of the credit facilities, that could lead to a default, which would entitle the lenders to accelerate the indebtedness and declare all amounts owed due and payable. A default under any credit facility could, in turn, result in defaults under the other credit facilities. Any such defaults will contribute to an increase in the Company’s cost of capital and could materially impair the Company’s financial condition and liquidity. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Credit Facilities.” Failure to retain the Company’s existing senior management team or the inability to attract and retain new qualified personnel could hurt the Company’s business and inhibit its ability to operate and grow successfully. The Company’s success will continue to depend to a significant extent on its executive management team and other key management personnel to replace executives that retire or resign. The Company may not be able to retain its executive officers and key personnel or attract additional qualified management personnel to replace executives that retire or resign. The Company’s success will also continue to depend on its ability to attract and retain qualified franchisees and other personnel to operate its restaurants and distribution centres. Failure to retain the Company’s leadership team and attract other important personnel could lead to ineffective management and operations, which would likely decrease the Company’s profitability. The Company’s previous and ongoing relationship with Wendy’s may affect the conduct of the Company’s business and the Company’s financial performance. The Company entered into several agreements with Wendy’s in connection with the separation from Wendy’s which impose certain limitations on the ability of the Company to conduct its business going forward. Furthermore, the Company continues to have an ongoing relationship with Wendy’s as a result of the combination restaurants operated by the TIMWEN Partnership, and continuing information technology services provided under the shared services agreement, discussed above. In addition, the Company currently has two directors on its Board who also serve on the Wendy’s Board of Directors. The following are examples of the ways in which the Company’s business operations may be impacted by this past and ongoing relationship with Wendy’s, each of which could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations: • conflicts of interest may arise in a number of areas between the Company and Wendy’s (including indemnification and other matters under the separation agreements, intellectual property matters, 24 Table of Contents competition for franchisees or locations, and general business competition), and the Company may not compete as vigorously or effectively as it would against another competitor as a result of the continuing relationships with Wendy’s, including the Company’s continuing reliance on Wendy’s for information technology services, and the common directorships on the Boards of the two companies; • as long as there is any director of Wendy’s who is also a director of the Company, the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation provides that the director has no obligation to communicate business opportunities to the Company and may communicate such opportunities to Wendy’s, and will be deemed to have not acted in a manner inconsistent with fiduciary duties or in bad faith in doing so with respect to the Company; • the separation agreements were entered into at a time when the Company was a wholly-owned subsidiary of Wendy’s and, pursuant to these agreements, the Company has agreed to assume and indemnify Wendy’s for, among other matters, all past, present and future liabilities related to the Company’s business, which liabilities could include unknown liabilities that could be significant; • the separation agreements with Wendy’s limit the Company’s ability to conduct certain capital restructuring and other transactions and require the Company to preserve the tax-free nature of the spinoff; the Company may be subject to significant liability to the extent the Company’s transactions result in gain being recognized in connection with the spin-off; • third parties may seek to hold the Company responsible for liabilities of Wendy’s that the Company did not assume in the separation agreements; indemnities obtained from Wendy’s may not be sufficient to cover such liabilities; and there is no guarantee Wendy’s would be willing or able to fund such indemnities; • under the tax sharing agreement with Wendy’s, (i) the Company generally will pay to or be entitled to receive from Wendy’s the amount of U.S. federal, state and local income taxes that the Company would be required to pay or be entitled to receive if the Company and its subsidiaries filed consolidated tax returns with Wendy’s for the period ended September 29, 2006, (ii) Wendy’s will control all of the Company’s U.S. and Canadian tax decisions from the period ended September 29, 2006, and (iii) Wendy’s will have sole authority to respond to and conduct all tax proceedings and audits relating to that period and to determine the amount of the Company’s liability to or entitlement to payment from Wendy’s, all of which may result in conflicts of interest between the Company and Wendy’s. Moreover, notwithstanding the tax sharing agreement, U.S. federal law provides that each member of a consolidated group is liable for the group’s entire tax obligation. Thus, to the extent Wendy’s or other members of the group fail to make any U.S. federal income tax payments required by law for the 2006 Tax Year and for prior years, the Company would be liable for the shortfall. Similar principles may apply for federal, foreign, state and local income tax purposes where the Company files combined, consolidated or unitary returns with Wendy’s for federal, foreign, state and local income tax purposes for the 2006 Tax Year and prior years; and • Although the Company is involved operationally with the TIMWEN Partnership, the Company’s 50-50 joint venture with Wendy’s for the development of Canadian combination restaurants, Wendy’s currently manages the accounting for that partnership, and the Company has limited ability to control or be involved with the accounting processes for this joint venture. The Company is not required to pay dividends, and the Company’s Board of Directors could decide not to declare a dividend or could reduce the amount of the dividend at any time. The declaration of dividends on the common stock is solely within the discretion of the Board of Directors of the Company, subject further to limitations under Delaware law which provide that dividends may only be paid out of capital surplus. Our credit facilities also limit the ability of the Company to pay dividends to shareholders. The Company’s Board of Directors could at any time decide not to declare a dividend, or could reduce the level of our dividend payments, or the Company could be prevented from declaring a dividend because of legal or contractual restrictions. The failure to pay a dividend could reduce the value of our common stock to shareholders and could negatively affect trading prices. 25 Table of Contents The Company’s certificate of incorporation, by-laws, stockholder rights plan and Delaware state law contain provisions that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company. The Company’s certificate of incorporation authorizes the board of directors to issue up to 100,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the powers, preferences, privileges, rights, including voting rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions on those shares, without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of the Company’s common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock could delay, deter or prevent a change in control and could adversely affect the voting power or economic value of the shares of common stock. In addition, provisions of the certificate of incorporation, by-laws and Delaware law, together or separately, could discourage potential acquisition proposals, delay or prevent a change in control and limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for the Company’s common stock. Among other things, these provisions establish a staggered board and establish certain advance notice procedures for nomination of candidates for election as directors and for stockholder proposals to be considered at stockholders’ meetings. Furthermore, these provisions provide that directors may be removed only for cause by a majority shareholder vote and provide that special meetings of shareholders may only be called by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or a resolution duly adopted by a majority of the entire Board. The ability of shareholders to call a special meeting is specifically denied. For a further description of these provisions, see our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, and Delaware law. In addition, the Company’s stockholder rights plan will impose a significant penalty on any person or group that acquires, or begins a tender or exchange offer that would result in such person acquiring 15% or more of the outstanding common stock without approval from the board. The Board has authorized the issuance of one right for each share of common stock outstanding. Each right allows the holder to purchase from the Company one ten-thousandth of a share of Series A junior participating preferred stock, par value US $0.001 per share, for $150 (subject to anti-dilution adjustments), once the rights become exercisable. See the Company’s certificate of incorporation and stockholder rights plan for additional terms of the preferred stock purchase rights. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 