Risk Factors” section. The trading market for our common stock also may be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our industry. While there can be no assurance that any analysts will elect to cover our company, in the event that one or more of the analysts who may cover us in the future were to publish an unfavorable research report or to downgrade our stock, our stock price likely would decline. If we were to receive no analyst coverage or if one or more of analysts who may elect to cover our company were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These broad market and industry factors may decrease the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. Litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. As a public company we will incur substantial additional costs to comply with securities laws, rules and regulations, including, in particular, Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. We have operated as a public company for a limited period of time. As a public company subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley, we are required, among other things, to file periodic reports relating to our business and financial condition. In addition, beginning with our annual report for the year ending December 29, 2007, Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley will require us to include a report with our annual report on Form 10-K that must include management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of that fiscal year and disclosure of any material weaknesses in internal control that we have identified. Additionally, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to issue a report on management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting and their evaluation of the operating effectiveness of our internal control. Our assessment requires us to make subjective judgments and our independent registered public accounting firm may not agree with our assessment. Achieving compliance with Section 404 within the prescribed period will require us to incur significant costs and expend significant time and management resources. If we are unable to complete the work necessary for our management to issue its management report in a timely manner, or if we are unable to complete any work required for our management to be able to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is operating effectively, we and our independent registered public accounting firm would be unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of December 29, 2007. As a result, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information or public filings, which could have an adverse effect on the trading price of our stock or lead to stockholders litigation. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm may not agree with our management’s assessment or conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is operating effectively. The new laws, rules and regulations may also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified independent members of our board of directors and qualified executive officers. Provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws and Senior Officer Change in Control Compensation Benefits Plan could discourage potential acquirers and could deter or prevent a change in control. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Senior Officer Change in Control Compensation Benefits Plan, as well as Delaware corporate law, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control. These provisions include: • our ability to issue “blank check” preferred stock; • provisions restricting stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders; 34 Table of Contents • provisions that set forth advance notice procedures for meetings of stockholders; and • payments of certain bonus and severance amounts to covered employees in certain circumstances. In addition, under our certificate of incorporation, a person or entity who seeks to acquire 4.75% or more of our outstanding common stock, or a person or entity who already is a direct or indirect 4.75% stockholder and wishes to increase its ownership, may not acquire such shares unless it has obtained the prior written consent of our board of directors until such time as these restrictions lapse, which will be January 4, 2009 at the latest. Our board may deny any such proposed transaction if it determines in its reasonable assessment that the proposed transaction could jeopardize realization of the full benefits of unrestricted use of our net operating loss carryovers. In accordance with our certificate of incorporation, any transaction in violation of these ownership restrictions will be void so that a purported transferee will not have any ownership rights with respect to any shares acquired in excess of these ownership restrictions. Therefore, a purported transferee will not be entitled to any rights as a stockholder, including voting, dividend or distribution rights, with respect to any excess shares. In addition, Eddie Bauer has the right to demand any purported transferee of excess shares to transfer to an agent of our designation its excess shares for resale by the agent or, if the excess shares have already been sold by the purported transferee, to transfer to the agent any proceeds from the sale by the purported transferee of such excess shares. We have set up procedures that instruct our transfer agent not to transfer, without our written approval, any shares on our books and records if such transfer would violate these ownership restrictions. These provisions may make it more difficult for other persons or entities, without the approval of our board of directors, to make a tender offer or otherwise acquire substantial amounts of our common stock, or to launch other takeover attempts that a stockholder might consider to be in such stockholder’s best interest. These provisions also may limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our ability to utilize our NOLs and certain other tax attributes may be limited. As of December 30, 2006, we had NOLs of approximately $540 million for federal income tax purposes. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, if a corporation undergoes an “ownership change,” the corporation’s ability to use its pre-change NOLs and other pre-change tax attributes to offset its post-change income may be limited. An ownership change is generally defined as a greater than 50% change in its equity ownership by value over a three-year period. We may experience an ownership change in the future as a result of subsequent shifts in our stock ownership, including as a result of any conversion of notes into shares of our common stock pursuant to the currently contemplated offering of convertible notes. If we were to trigger an ownership change in the future, our ability to use any NOLs existing at that time could be limited. Future issuances or sales of our securities could cause our stock price to fall. We may issue securities in the future and may do so in a manner that results in substantial dilution for our stockholders. In addition, we may issue debt or equity from time to time that ranks in preference to our common stock in the event of a liquidation or winding up or that is secured by an interest in some or all of our assets, including the currently planned issuance of junior capital as part of our refinancing efforts. Sales of common stock by existing stockholders in the public market, our issuances of new securities or debt, or the expectation that any of these events might occur could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our dividend policies and other restrictions on the payment of dividends prevent the payment of dividends for the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Our ability to pay dividends depends on our receipt of cash dividends from our subsidiaries because we are a holding company. The terms of certain of our outstanding indebtedness prohibit us from paying dividends. Accordingly, investors 35 Table of Contents must be prepared to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation to earn an investment return, which may never occur. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, financial conditions, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our board deems relevant. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 