D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Company Our failure to successfully implement our growth strategy may adversely affect our results of operations and harm the market value of our Class A shares. We have been growing rapidly for more than ten years. Through a growth-oriented fleet plan, we intend to expand our service to new markets and to increase the frequency of flights to the markets we currently serve. Achieving these goals is essential in order for our business to benefit from cost efficiencies resulting from economies of scale. We expect to have substantial cash needs as we expand, including cash required to fund aircraft acquisitions or aircraft deposits as we add to our fleet. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient cash to fund such projects, and if we are unable to successfully expand our route system, our future revenue and earnings growth would be limited. When we commence a new route, our load factors tend to be lower than those on our established routes and our advertising and other promotional costs tend to be higher, which may result in initial losses that could have a negative impact on our results of operations as well as require a substantial amount of cash to fund. We also periodically run special promotional fare campaigns, particularly in connection with the opening of new routes. Promotional fares may have the effect of increasing load factors while reducing our yield on such routes during the period that they are in effect. The number of markets we serve and our flight frequencies depend on our ability to identify the appropriate geographic markets to focus on and to gain suitable airport access and route approval in these markets. There can be no assurance that the new markets we enter will provide passenger traffic that is sufficient to make our operations in those new markets profitable. Any condition that would prevent or delay our access to key airports or routes, including limitations on the ability to process more passengers, the imposition of flight capacity restrictions, the inability to secure additional route rights under bilateral agreements or the inability to maintain our existing slots and banks and obtain additional slots and flight banks, could constrain the expansion of our operations. 4 Table of Contents The expansion of our business will also require additional skilled personnel, equipment and facilities. The inability to hire and retain skilled pilots and other personnel or secure the required equipment and facilities in an efficient, cost-effective and timely manner, may adversely affect our ability to execute our growth strategy. In the past, the airline industry has experienced a pilot shortage that has disproportionately affected smaller and regional carriers. Expansion of our markets and flight frequencies may also strain our existing management resources and operational, financial and management information systems to the point where they may no longer be adequate to support our operations, requiring us to make significant expenditures in these areas. In light of these factors, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully establish new markets or expand our existing markets, and our failure to do so could harm our business and results of operations, as well as the value of our Class A shares. Our performance is heavily dependent on economic and political conditions in the countries in which we do business. Passenger demand is heavily cyclical and highly dependent on global, regional and country-specific economic growth, economic expectations and foreign exchange rate variations. In the past, we have been negatively impacted by poor economic performance in certain emerging market countries in which we operate. Any of the following developments (or a continuation or worsening of any of the following currently in existence) in the countries in which we operate could adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations: • changes in economic or other governmental policies, including exchange controls; • changes in regulatory, legal or administrative practices; or • other political or economic developments over which we have no control. Additionally, a significant portion of our revenue is derived from discretionary and leisure travel which are especially sensitive to economic downturns. An adverse economic environment, whether global, regional or in a special country, could result in a reduction in passenger traffic, and leisure travel in particular, as well as a reduction in our cargo business, and could also impact our ability to raise fares, which in turn would materially and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. The cost of refinancing our debt and obtaining additional financing for new aircraft has increased and may continue to increase. We currently finance our aircraft through bank loans and operating leases. In the past, we have been able to obtain lease or debt financing on terms attractive to us. We have obtained most of the financing for our Boeing aircraft purchases from commercial financial institutions utilizing guarantees provided by the Export-Import Bank of the United States. The Export-Import Bank provides guarantees to companies that purchase goods from U.S. companies for export, enabling them to obtain financing at substantially lower interest rates as compared to those that they could obtain without a guarantee. The Export-Import Bank does not provide similar guarantees in connection with financing for our aircraft purchases from Embraer since those aircraft are not exports from the United States. At December 31, 2013, we had $714.9 million of outstanding indebtedness that is owed to financial institutions under financing arrangements guaranteed by the Export-Import Bank. In February 2011, participants from the member states of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (“OECD”), including the Export-Import Bank, agreed to a new common approach with respect to aircraft purchase financing (the “2011 Aircraft Sector Understanding”). The 2011 Aircraft Sector Understanding unifies the terms, conditions and procedures governing large and regional aircraft exports and in particular attempts to reduce the subsidies from which we benefit by setting forth increased minimum guarantee premium rates based on a borrower’s credit risk classification. Although aircraft delivered prior to December 31, 2012 pursuant to firm orders placed prior to December 31, 2010 are not covered by the 2011 Aircraft Sector Understanding, our future financing costs are expected to increase and our results of operation may be negatively affected as a result of this new regime. As a result, we have begun exploring other financing arrangements, including entering into sale-leaseback transactions to finance future aircraft purchases. We cannot predict whether the Export-Import Bank’s credit support will continue to be available to us to fund future purchases of Boeing aircraft. The Export-Import Bank may in the future limit its exposure to Panama-based companies, to our airline or to airlines generally, or may encourage us to diversify our credit sources by limiting future guarantees. 5 Table of Contents Similarly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to raise financing from past sources, or from other sources, on terms comparable to our existing financing or at all. The recent turmoil in the financial markets, for example, tightened the availability of credit and increased the cost of obtaining lease or debt financing. If the cost of such financing increases or we are unable to obtain such financing, we may be forced to incur higher than anticipated financing costs, which could have an adverse impact on the execution of our growth strategy and business. We derive significant benefits from our alliance with United Continental Holdings and cannot assure you that it will continue. Historically, we maintained a broad commercial and marketing alliance with Continental Airlines, Inc., or Continental. On October 1, 2010, Continental merged with United Airlines and became a wholly-owned subsidiary of United Continental Holdings, Inc. (“UAL”). All of the benefits from our previous alliance with Continental have been recognized by UAL. In addition, the DOT has issued a “route transfer order” document whereby the antitrust immunity granted to Continental Airlines and Copa Airlines is now in effect between UAL and Copa Airlines. This alliance allows us to enhance our network and, in some cases, offer our customers services that we could not otherwise offer. Our alliance has provided us with support in negotiations for aircraft purchases, insurance and fuel purchases, sharing of “best practices” and engineering support in our maintenance operations, and significant other intangible support. This support has assisted us in our growth strategy, while also improving our operational performance and the quality of our service. If UAL were to experience severe financial difficulties or go bankrupt, our alliance and service agreements may be terminated or we may not realize the anticipated benefits from our relationship with UAL. In addition, high fuel costs, slowdowns in the global capital markets, industry competition and terrorism or other international hostilities may all affect UAL’s profitability. We cannot assure you that UAL will be able to sustain its profitability, and as a result, we may be materially and adversely affected by a deterioration of UAL’s financial condition. In addition, if our alliance with UAL or our service agreements were terminated, our business, financial condition and results of operations would likely be materially and adversely affected. The loss of Copa’s codesharing relationship with UAL would adversely affect our revenues. We also rely on UAL’s Mileage Plus frequent flyer program, in which we participate globally and on a co-branded basis in Latin America. Our business may be adversely affected if this frequent flyer program does not remain a competitive marketing program. In addition, our competitors may benefit from alliances with other airlines that are more extensive than our alliance with UAL. We cannot predict the extent to which we will be disadvantaged by competing alliances. Our relationship with suppliers depends in part on our alliance with UAL. We may not realize benefits from our membership in Star Alliance. In November 2010, Copa and Star Alliance jointly announced Copa’s intention to join Star Alliance, which was the first global airline alliance created and still maintains the most member airlines. Copa officially joined Star Alliance on June 21, 2012. One of our main competitors, Avianca, also joined Star Alliance in 2012. We cannot predict the extent to which participating in the same alliance as one of our direct competitors may impact our revenues, our ability for future growth, or have any additional implications on our current operations. We also cannot predict whether any other direct competitors will join Star Alliance in the future. Our participation in Star Alliance could result in additional costs and the anticipated benefits may not be realized, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 6 Table of Contents We operate using a hub-and-spoke model and are vulnerable to competitors offering direct flights between destinations we serve. The structure of our flight operations follows what is known in the airline industry as a “hub-and-spoke” model. This model aggregates passengers by operating flights from a number of “spoke” origins to a central hub through which they are transported to their final destinations. In recent years, many traditional hub-and-spoke operators have faced significant and increasing competitive pressure from low-cost, point-to-point carriers on routes with sufficient demand to sustain point-to-point service. A point-to-point structure enables airlines to focus on the most profitable, high-demand routes and to offer greater convenience and, in many instances, lower fares. As demand for air travel in Latin America increases, some of our competitors have initiated non-stop service between destinations that we currently serve through our hub in Panama. Non-stop service, which bypasses our hub in Panama is more convenient and possibly less expensive, than our connecting service and could significantly decrease demand for our service to those destinations. We believe that competition from point-to-point carriers will be directed towards the largest markets that we serve and such competition is likely to continue at this level or intensify in the future. As a result, the effect of such competition on us could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Panamanian Aviation Act and certain of the bilateral agreements under which we operate contain Panamanian ownership requirements that are not clearly defined, and our failure to comply with these requirements could cause us to lose our authority to operate in Panama or to the international destinations we serve. Under Law No. 21 of January 29, 2003, which regulates the aviation industry in the Republic of Panama and which we refer to as the Aviation Act, “substantial ownership” and “effective control” of our airline must remain in the hands of Panamanian nationals. Under certain of the bilateral agreements between Panama and other countries pursuant to which we have the right to fly to those other countries and over their territory, we must continue to have substantial Panamanian ownership and effective control by Panamanian nationals to retain these rights. Neither “substantial ownership” nor “effective control” are defined in the Aviation Act or in the bilateral agreements, and it is unclear how a Panamanian court or, in the case of the bilateral agreements, foreign regulatory authorities might interpret these requirements. In addition, the manner in which these requirements are interpreted may change over time. We cannot predict whether these requirements would be satisfied through ownership and control by Panamanian record holders, or if these requirements would be satisfied only by direct and indirect ownership and control by Panamanian beneficial owners. At the present time, Corporación de Inversiones Aereas, S.A., or CIASA, a Panamanian entity, is the record owner of all of our Class B voting shares, representing approximately 24.8% of our total share capital and all of the voting power of our capital stock. On November 25, 2005, the Executive Branch of the Government of Panama promulgated a decree stating that the “substantial ownership” and “effective control” requirements of the Aviation Act are met if a Panamanian citizen or a Panamanian company is the record holder of shares representing 51% or more of the voting power of the company. Although the decree has the force of law for so long as it remains in effect, it does not supersede the Aviation Act, and it can be modified or superseded at any time by a future Executive Branch decree. Additionally, the decree has no binding effect on regulatory authorities of other countries whose bilateral agreements impose Panamanian ownership and control limitations on us. We cannot assure you that the decree will not be challenged, modified or superseded in the future, that CIASA will continue to own a majority of the Class B shares, or that record ownership of a majority of our Class B shares by Panamanian entities will be sufficient to satisfy the “substantial ownership” requirement of the Aviation Act and the decree. A change in the ownership of the Class B shares or a determination by the Panamanian Civil Aviation Authority (the Autoridad de Aeronáutica Civil), which we refer to as the AAC, or a Panamanian court that “substantial” Panamanian ownership should be determined on the basis of our direct and indirect ownership, could cause us to lose our license to operate our airline in Panama. Likewise, if a foreign regulatory authority were to determine that our direct or indirect Panamanian ownership fails to satisfy the minimum Panamanian ownership requirements for a Panamanian carrier under the applicable bilateral agreement, we may lose the benefit of that agreement and be prohibited from flying to the relevant country or over its territory. Any such determination would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as on the value of the Class A shares. 7 Table of Contents Our business is subject to extensive regulation which may restrict our growth or our operations or increase our costs. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we or certain aviation authorities in the countries to which we fly fail to maintain the required foreign and domestic governmental authorizations necessary for our operations. In order to maintain the necessary authorizations issued by the AAC, the Colombian Civil Aviation Administration (the Unidad Administrativa Especial de Aeronáutica Civil or UAEAC), and other corresponding foreign authorities, we must continue to comply with applicable statutes, rules and regulations pertaining to the airline industry, including any rules and regulations that may be adopted in the future. We cannot predict or control any actions that the AAC, the UAEAC, or foreign aviation regulators may take in the future, which could include restricting our operations or imposing new and costly regulations. Also, our fares are technically subject to review by the AAC, the UAEAC, and the regulators of certain other countries to which we fly, any of which may in the future impose restrictions on our fares. We are also subject to international bilateral air transport agreements that provide for the exchange of air traffic rights between each of Panama and Colombia, and various other countries, and we must obtain permission from the applicable foreign governments to provide service to foreign destinations. There can be no assurance that existing bilateral agreements between the countries in which our airline operating companies are based and foreign governments will continue, or that we will be able to obtain more route rights under those agreements to accommodate our future expansion plans. A modification, suspension or revocation of one or more bilateral agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The suspension of our permits to operate to certain airports or destinations, the cancellation of any of our provisional routes, the inability for us to obtain favorable take-off and landing authorizations at certain high-density airports or the imposition of other sanctions could also have a material adverse effect. Due to the nature of bilateral agreements, we can fly to many destinations only from Panama and to certain destinations only from Colombia. We cannot assure you that a change in a foreign government’s administration of current laws and regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We plan to continue to increase the scale of our operations and revenues by expanding our presence on new and existing routes. Our ability to successfully implement this strategy will depend upon many factors, several of which are outside our control or subject to change. These factors include the permanence of a suitable political, economic and regulatory environment in the Latin American countries in which we operate or intend to operate and our ability to identify strategic local partners. The most active government regulator among the countries to which we fly is the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration, or FAA. The FAA from time to time issues directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that require significant expenditures. FAA requirements cover, among other things, security measures, collision avoidance systems, airborne windshear avoidance systems, noise abatement and other environmental issues, and increased inspections and maintenance procedures to be conducted on older aircraft. We expect to continue incurring expenses to comply with the FAA’s regulations, and any increase in the cost of compliance could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additional new regulations continue to be regularly implemented by the U.S. Transportation Security Administration, or TSA, as well. The growth of our operations to the United States and the benefits of our code-sharing arrangements with UAL are dependent on Panama’s continued favorable safety assessment. The FAA periodically audits the aviation regulatory authorities of other countries. As a result of its investigation, each country is given an International Aviation Safety Assessment, or IASA, rating. Since April 2004, IASA has rated Panama as a Category 1 jurisdiction. We cannot assure you that the government of Panama and the AAC in particular, will continue to meet international safety standards, and we have no direct control over their compliance with IASA guidelines. If Panama’s IASA rating were to be downgraded in the future, it could prohibit us from increasing service to the United States and UAL would have to suspend code sharing on our flights, causing us to lose direct revenue from codesharing as well as reducing flight options to our customers. 8 Table of Contents We are highly dependent on our hub at Panama City’s Tocumen International Airport. Our business is heavily dependent on our operations at our hub at Panama City’s Tocumen International Airport. Substantially all of our Copa flights either depart from or arrive at our hub. Our operations and growth strategy is therefore, at least in part, dependent on its facilities and infrastructure, including the success of its multi-phase expansion projects certain of which have been completed and others which are underway and are expected to be completed in 2017. Due to the magnitude of the construction required for a proposed new south terminal, we may experience logistical issues and/or be subject to increased passenger taxes and airports charges related to the financing of the construction. In addition, the hub-and-spoke structure of our operations is particularly dependent on the on-time arrival of tightly coordinated groupings of flights (or banks) to ensure that passengers can make timely connections to continuing flights. Like other airlines, we are subject to delays caused by factors beyond our control, including air traffic congestion at airports, adverse weather conditions and increased security measures. Delays inconvenience passengers, reduce aircraft utilization and increase costs, all of which in turn negatively affect our profitability. In addition, at its current utilization level, Tocumen International Airport has limited fuel storage capacity. In the event there is a disruption in the transport of fuel to the airport, we may be forced to suspend flights until the fuel tanks can be refueled. A significant interruption or disruption in service or fuel at Tocumen International Airport could have a serious impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. Tocumen International Airport is operated by a corporation that is owned and controlled by the government of the Republic of Panama. We depend on our good working relationship with the quasi-governmental corporation that operates the airport to ensure that we have adequate access to aircraft parking positions, landing rights and gate assignments for our aircraft to accommodate our current operations and future plans for expansion. The corporation that operates Tocumen International Airport does not enter into any formal, written leases or other agreements with airlines that govern rights to use the airport’s jet ways or aircraft parking spaces. Therefore, we do not have contractual recourse in the event the airport authority assigns new capacity to competing airlines, reassigns our resources to other aircraft operators, raises fees or discontinues investments in the airport’s maintenance and expansion. Any of these events could result in significant new competition for our routes or could otherwise have a material adverse effect on our current operations or ability for future growth. We are exposed to increases in airport charges, taxes and various other fees and cannot be assured access to adequate facilities and landing rights necessary to achieve our expansion plans. We must pay fees to airport operators for the use of their facilities. Any substantial increase in airport charges, including at Tocumen International Airport, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Passenger taxes and airport charges have increased in recent years, sometimes substantially. Certain important airports that we use may be privatized in the near future which is likely to result in significant cost increases to the airlines that use these airports. We cannot assure you that the airports used by us will not impose, or further increase, passenger taxes and airport charges in the future, and any such increases could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Certain airports that we serve (or that we plan to serve in the future) are subject to capacity constraints and impose various restrictions, including slot restrictions during certain periods of the day, limits on aircraft noise levels, limits on the number of average daily departures and curfews on runway use. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain a sufficient number of slots, gates and other facilities at airports to expand our services as we are proposing to do. It is also possible that airports not currently subject to capacity constraints may become so in the future. In addition, an airline must use its slots on a regular and timely basis or risk having those slots re-allocated to others. Where slots or other airport resources are not available or their availability is restricted in some way, we may have to amend our schedules, change routes or reduce aircraft utilization. Any of these alternatives could have an adverse financial impact on us. In addition, we cannot assure you that airports at which there are no such restrictions may not implement restrictions in the future or that, where such restrictions exist, they may not become more onerous. Such restrictions may limit our ability to continue to provide or to increase services at such airports. 9 Table of Contents We have significant fixed financing costs and expect to incur additional fixed costs as we expand our fleet. The airline business is characterized by high leverage, and we have a high level of indebtedness. We also have significant expenditures in connection with our operating leases and facility rental costs, and substantially all of our property and equipment is pledged to secure indebtedness. For the year ended December 31, 2013, our interest expense and aircraft and facility rental expense under operating leases totaled $135.9 million. At December 31, 2013, approximately 51% of our total indebtedness bore interest at fixed rates and the remainder was determined with reference to LIBOR. All of our aircraft lease obligations bear interest at fixed rates. Accordingly, our financing and rent expense will not decrease significantly if market interest rates decline, but given LIBOR’s record low rates, our financing costs could materially increase as LIBOR rates increase. As of December 31, 2013, we had firm commitments to purchase 42 Boeing 737 aircraft, with an aggregate manufacturer’s list price of approximately $3.8 billion. We will require substantial capital from external sources to meet our future financial commitments. In addition, the acquisition and financing of these aircraft will likely result in a substantial increase in our leverage and fixed financing costs. A high degree of leverage and fixed payment obligations could: • limit our ability in the future to obtain additional financing for working capital or other important needs; • impair our liquidity by diverting substantial cash from our operating needs to service fixed financing obligations; or • limit our ability to plan for or react to changes in our business, in the airline industry or in general economic conditions. Any one of these could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our existing debt financing agreements and our aircraft operating leases contain restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. Our aircraft financing loans and operating leases and the instruments governing our other indebtedness contain a number of significant covenants and restrictions that limit our ability and our subsidiaries’ ability to: • create material liens on our assets; • take certain actions that may impair creditors’ rights to our aircraft; • sell assets or engage in certain mergers or consolidations; and • engage in other specified significant transactions. In addition, several of our aircraft financing agreements require us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios and other financial and operating tests. For example, our access to certain borrowings under our aircraft financing arrangements is conditioned upon our maintenance of minimum debt service coverage and capitalization ratios. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Complying with these covenants may cause us to take actions that make it more difficult to execute successfully our business strategy, and we may face competition from companies not subject to such restrictions. Moreover, our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default or refusal by our creditors to extend certain of our loans. 10 Table of Contents If we fail to successfully take delivery of or reliably operate new aircraft, our business could be harmed. We fly and rely on Boeing and Embraer aircraft. As of April 29, 2014, we operated a fleet of 66 Boeing aircraft. In 2014, we expect to take delivery of six (6) additional Boeing 737-800s, and in the future we expect to continue to incorporate new aircraft into our fleet. The decision to incorporate new aircraft is based on a variety of factors, including the implementation of our growth strategy. Acquisition of new aircraft involves a variety of risks relating to its ability to be successfully placed into service including: • manufacturer’s delays in meeting the agreed upon aircraft delivery schedule; • difficulties in obtaining financing on acceptable terms to complete our purchase of all of the aircraft we have committed to purchase; and • the inability of new aircraft and their components to comply with agreed upon specifications and performance standards. In addition, our fleet includes 26 Embraer 190 aircraft. Technical issues with our Embraer 190 aircraft would increase our maintenance expenses, and we cannot predict the reliability of the Embraer aircraft as the aircraft matures. If we fail to successfully take delivery of or reliably operate new aircraft, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. If we were to determine that our aircraft, rotable parts or inventory were impaired, it would have a significant adverse effect on our operating results. If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on long-lived assets carried at amortized cost has been incurred, the amount of the impairment loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the higher of its fair value less cost to sell and its value in use, defined as the present value of estimated future cash flows (excluding future expected credit losses that have not been incurred) discounted at the asset’s risk adjusted interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced and the loss is recorded in the consolidated statement of income. In addition to the fact that the value of our fleet declines as it ages, any potential excess capacity in the airline industry, airline bankruptcies and other factors beyond our control may further contribute to the decline of the fair market value of our aircraft and related rotable parts and inventory. If such impairment does occur, we would be required under IFRS to write down these assets through a charge to earnings. A significant charge to earnings would adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. In addition, the interest rates on and the availability of certain of our aircraft financing loans are tied to the value of the aircraft securing the loans. If those values were to decrease substantially, our interest rates may rise or the lenders under those loans may cease extending credit to us, either of which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on information technology systems to operate our businesses and any failure or disruption of these systems may have an impact on our business. We rely upon information technology systems to operate our business and increase our efficiency. We are highly reliant on certain systems for flight and operations, maintenance, reservations, check-in, revenue management, accounting and cargo distribution. Other systems are designed to decrease distribution costs through internet reservations and to maximize cargo distributions, crew utilization and to maximize flight operations. These systems may not deliver their anticipated benefits. In the ordinary course of business, our systems will continue to require modification and refinements to address changing business requirements. Our operations and competitive position could be adversely affected if we are unable to timely or effectively upgrade or replace our systems once they become outdated and attract fewer clients. Information systems could also suffer disruptions due to events beyond our control, including natural disasters, power failures, terrorist attacks, equipment or software failures, computer viruses or cyber security attacks. In addition, any transition to new systems may result in a loss of data or service interruption which could harm our business. Substantial or repeated website, reservations systems or telecommunication system failures or disruptions, including failures or disruptions related to our integration of technology systems could reduce the attractiveness of our Company versus our competitors, materially impair our ability to market our services and operate flights, result in the unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, and result in increased costs, lost revenue, or the loss or compromise of important data. 11 Table of Contents Our reputation and business may be harmed and we may be subject to legal claims if there is loss, unlawful disclosure or misappropriation of, or unsanctioned access to, our customers’, employees’, business partners’ or our own information or other breaches of our information security. We make extensive use of online services and centralized data processing, including through third party service providers. The secure maintenance and transmission of customer and employee information is a critical element of our operations. Our information technology and other systems maintain and transmit customer information, or those of service providers or business partners, may be compromised by a malicious third party penetration of our network security, or of a third party service provider or business partner, or impacted by deliberate or inadvertent actions or inactions by our employees, or those of a third party service provider or business partner. As a result, personal information may be lost, disclosed, accessed or taken without consent. We transmit confidential credit card information by way of secure private retail networks and rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission and storage of confidential information, such as customer credit card information. The Company has made significant efforts to secure its computer network. If any compromise of our security or computer network were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on the reputation, business, operating results and financial condition of the Company, and could result in a loss of customers. Additionally, any material failure by the Company to achieve or maintain compliance with the Payment Card Industry, or PCI, security requirements or rectify a security issue may result in fines and the imposition of restrictions on the Company’s ability to accept credit cards as a form of payment. Any such loss, disclosure or misappropriation of, or access to, customers’, employees’ or business partners’ information or other breach of our information security can result in legal claims or legal proceedings, including regulatory investigations and actions, may have a negative impact on our reputation and may materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, the loss, disclosure or misappropriation of our business information may materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our liquidity could be adversely impacted in the event one or more of our credit card processors were to impose material reserve requirements for payments due to us from credit card transactions. We currently have agreements with organizations that process credit card transactions arising from purchases of air travel tickets by our customers. Credit card processors have financial risk associated with tickets purchased for travel which can occur several weeks after the purchase. Our credit card processing agreements provide for reserves to be deposited with the processor in certain circumstances. We do not currently have reserves posted for our credit card processors. If circumstances were to occur requiring us to deposit reserves, the negative impact on our liquidity could be significant which could materially adversely affect our business. Our quarterly results can fluctuate substantially, and the trading price of our Class A shares may be affected by such variations. The airline industry is by nature cyclical and seasonal, and our operating results may vary from quarter to quarter. In general, demand for air travel is higher in the third and fourth quarters, particularly in international markets, because of the increase in vacation travel during these periods relative to the remainder of the year. We tend to experience the highest levels of traffic and revenue in July and August, with a smaller peak in traffic in December and January. We generally experience our lowest levels of passenger traffic in April and May. Given our high proportion of fixed costs, seasonality can affect our profitability from quarter to quarter. Demand for air travel is also affected by factors such as economic conditions, war or the threat of war, fare levels and weather conditions. 12 Table of Contents Due to the factors described above and others described in this annual report, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be good indicators of our future performance. In addition, it is possible that in any quarter our operating results could be below the expectations of investors and any published reports or analyses regarding our Company. In that event, the price of our Class A shares could decline, perhaps substantially. Our reputation and financial results could be harmed in the event of an accident or incident involving our aircraft. An accident or incident involving one of our aircraft could involve significant claims by injured passengers and others, as well as significant costs related to the repair or replacement of a damaged aircraft and its temporary or permanent loss from service. We are required by our creditors and the lessors of our aircraft under our operating lease agreements to carry liability insurance, but the amount of such liability insurance coverage may not be adequate and we may be forced to bear substantial losses in the event of an accident. Our insurance premiums may also increase due to an accident or incident affecting one of our aircraft. Substantial claims resulting from an accident in excess of our related insurance coverage or increased premiums would harm our business and financial results. Moreover, any aircraft accident or incident, even if fully insured, could cause the public to perceive us as less safe or reliable than other airlines which could harm our business and results of operations. The Copa brand name and our corporate reputation are important and valuable assets. Adverse publicity (whether or not justified) could tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brand. Adverse perceptions of the types of aircraft that we operate arising from safety concerns or other problems, whether real or perceived, or in the event of an accident involving those types of aircraft could significantly harm our business as the public may avoid flying our aircraft. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could negatively affect our net income. In 2013, approximately 52% of our expenses and 39% of our revenues were denominated in U.S. dollars. The remainder of our expenses and revenues were denominated in the currencies of the various countries to which we fly, with the largest non-dollar amount denominated in Colombian Pesos due to our volume of business in Colombia. If any of these currencies decline in value against the U.S. dollar, our revenues, expressed in U.S. dollars, and our operating margin would be adversely affected. We may not be able to adjust our fares denominated in other currencies to offset any increases in U.S. dollar-denominated expenses, increases in interest expense or exchange losses on fixed obligations or indebtedness denominated in foreign currency. We are also exposed to exchange rate losses, as well as gains, due to the fluctuation in the value of local currencies vis-à-vis the U.S. dollar during the period of time between the time we are paid in local currencies and the time we are able to repatriate the revenues in U.S. dollars. Typically this process takes between one and two weeks in most countries to which we fly, excluding Venezuela. We hold substantial amount in Venezuelan bolivars and our Venezuelan operations could be adversely affected by conditions in Venezuela or by relations between Panama and Venezuela. In Venezuela, foreign companies, including airlines, have experienced increasing delays for approvals by the Venezuelan government to repatriate funds. We have substantial cash balances in Venezuelan bolivars subject to Venezuelan exchange controls. Our exposure subject to exchange controls in Venezuela pending repatriation is $508.7 million, as of April 22, 2014. See “Item 5B. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Liquidity and Capital Resources.” In recent periods, we have experienced up to a 12 month delay in repatriating funds from Venezuela. On January 8, 2010, and then again on February 8, 2013, the Venezuelan government announced its decision to implement new fixed exchange rates, which resulted in significant devaluations of the bolivar against the U.S. dollar. As a result, we incurred losses of $19.7 million in 2010 and $13.9 million in the first quarter of 2013. Given the uncertainty with respect to the exchange control regime in Venezuela, we continue to be exposed in respect of our cash balance in Venezuelan bolivars. 13 Table of Contents On January 23, 2014, the Venezuelan government announced that going forward the foreign exchange rate for airline ticket purchases will no longer be determined through the official CENCOEX (formerly CADIVI) exchange rate. The exchange rate for ticket purchases will now be decided by an alternate (secondary) exchange rate mechanism determined through weekly auctions known as SICAD I. Since January 15, 2014 the SICAD I rate has fluctuated between 10.9 and 11.8 bolivars per dollar. The rate set at the latest SICAD I auction was 10.9 bolivars per dollar, compared with the official CENCOEX exchange rate of 6.3 bolivars per dollar. On March 10, 2014, the Venezuelan government passed Regulation 27 (Convenio Cambiario No. 27), which described the country’s new currency regime, SICAD II. This new regime, the only one of the three that can be used for all transactions, began operating on March 24, 2014, and the average exchange rate for the auctions held that day was 51.86 bolivars per dollar. Additionally, Regulation 27 revoked certain earlier rules and confirmed that repatriation requests will also be converted at the SICAD I rate, with the exception of repatriation requests only pending settlement by the Venezuelan Central Bank which will instead be converted at the official CENCOEX rate of 6.3 bolivars per dollar. Political conditions in Venezuela have deteriorated in recent months as a result of protests against the government that began in February. On March 5, 2014, Venezuelan president Nicolás Maduro announced that the country was breaking diplomatic and commercial relations with the Panamanian government. This announcement was made in response to a request by Panamanian president Ricardo Martinelli to hold a special meeting of the Permanent Council of the Organization of American States to discuss the situation in Venezuela. Following this announcement, the Venezuelan government also removed the option to select travel to Panama as a reason to request dollars. A further deterioration of political conditions in Venezuela or the relationship between Panama and Venezuela could adversely affect our business as well as economic conditions in Venezuela, which could affect demand for our services. We are continuing to work with Venezuelan authorities regarding the anticipated timing of and applicable exchange rate for the repatriation of funds held in local currency. We continue to monitor this situation closely and evaluate our holdings of Venezuelan bolivars for potential impairment. However, we cannot provide any assurance of when we will be able to remit amounts currently held in Venezuela or the exchange rate at which bolivars will be converted to dollar. Delays in remitting funds or converting funds at a lower exchange rate could adversely affect our liquidity. To reduce our exposure to further accumulations of unremitted cash in Venezuela, we are in the process of substantially reducing our service to Venezuela and have already carried out other actions to restrict ticket sales in the country. These service reductions can be expected to have a significant adverse effect on our consolidated operating revenues and consolidated net income beginning in the first quarter of 2014, as our revenues from operations to and from Venezuela were significant prior to this reduction in service. Our maintenance costs will increase as our fleet ages. The average age of our fleet was approximately 5.7 years as of December 31, 2013. Historically, we have incurred low levels of maintenance expenses relative to the size of our fleet because most of the parts on our aircraft are covered under multi-year warranties. As our fleet ages, these warranties expire and the mileage on each aircraft increases, our maintenance costs may increase significantly, both on an absolute basis and as a percentage of our operating expenses. 14 Table of Contents If we enter into a prolonged dispute with any of our employees, many of whom are represented by unions, or if we are required to increase substantially the salaries or benefits of our employees, it may have an adverse impact on our operations and financial condition. Approximately 54% of our 8,644 employees are unionized. There are currently four unions covering our employees based in Panama: the pilots’ union; the flight attendants’ union; the mechanics’ union; and a generalized union, which represents baggage handlers, aircraft cleaners, counter agents, and other non-executive administrative staff. Copa entered into collective bargaining agreements with its mechanics’ union in April 2009, its flight attendants’ union March 2010 and its pilot union in August 2012. Most recently, in December 2013, we re-negotiated the collective bargaining agreement with its general’ union. Collective bargaining agreements in Panama are typically between three and four year terms. There are four unions covering employees in Colombia: The Pilots’ union; the Flight attendants’ union; the industry union in Colombia; and the Mechanics Union in Colombia. While negotiations were held with each of these unions, we were unable to sign new agreements and arbitration processes are ongoing in each case. Typically, once signed, collective bargaining agreements in Colombia remain in effect for two to three years. Although Copa Colombia usually settles many of its collective bargaining agreement negotiations through arbitration proceedings, it has traditionally experienced good relations with its unions. We also have union contracts with our Copa employees in Brazil and Mexico. A strike, work interruption or stoppage or any prolonged dispute with our employees who are represented by any of these unions could have an adverse impact on our operations. These risks are typically exacerbated during periods of renegotiation with the unions, which typically occurs every two to four years depending on the jurisdiction and the union. Any renegotiated collective bargaining agreement could feature significant wage increases and a consequent increase in our operating expenses. Any failure to reach an agreement during negotiations with unions may require us to enter into arbitration proceedings, use financial and management resources, and potentially agree to terms that are less favorable to us than our existing agreements. Employees who are not currently members of unions may also form new unions that may seek further wage increases or benefits. Our business is labor intensive. We expect salaries, wages and benefits to increase on a gross basis, and these costs could increase as a percentage of our overall costs. If we are unable to hire, train and retain qualified pilots and other employees at a reasonable cost, our business could be harmed and we may be unable to complete our expansion plans. Our revenues depend on our relationship with travel agents and tour operators. In 2013, approximately 62.6% of our revenues were derived from tickets sold by travel agents or tour operators. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain favorable relationships with these ticket sellers. Our revenues could be adversely impacted if travel agents or tour operators elect to favor other airlines or to disfavor us. Our relationship with travel agents and tour operators may be affected by: • the size of commissions offered by other airlines; • changes in our arrangements with other distributors of airline tickets; and • the introduction and growth of new methods of selling tickets. We rely on third parties to provide our customers and us with facilities and services that are integral to our business. We have entered into agreements with third-party contractors to provide certain facilities and services required for our operations, such as heavy aircraft and engine maintenance, call center services, catering, ground handling, cargo and baggage handling, or “below the wing” aircraft services. At airports other than Tocumen International Airport, most of our “below the wing” aircraft services are performed by third party contractors. Also, all of our overhaul maintenance and some of our “C-checks” are handled by third-party contractors in the United States and Costa Rica, and some line maintenance is handled at certain airports by contract workers rather than our employees. Substantially all of our agreements with third-party contractors are subject to termination on short notice. The loss or expiration of these agreements or our inability to renew these agreements or to negotiate new agreements with other providers at comparable rates could harm our business and results of operations. Further, our reliance on third parties to provide reliable equipment or essential services on our behalf gives us less control over the costs, efficiency, timeliness and quality of our service. A contractor’s negligence could compromise our aircraft or endanger passengers and crew. This could also have a material adverse effect on our business. We expect to be dependent on such agreements for the foreseeable future and if we enter any new market, we will need to have similar agreements in place. 15 Table of Contents We depend on a limited number of suppliers. We are subject to the risks of having a limited number of suppliers for our aircraft and engines. One of the elements of our business strategy is to save costs by operating a simplified aircraft fleet. Copa currently operates the Boeing 737-700/800 Next Generation aircraft powered by CFM 56-7B engines from CFM International and the Embraer 190, powered by General Electric CF 34-10 engines. We currently intend to continue to rely exclusively on these aircraft for the foreseeable future. If any of Boeing, Embraer, CFM International or GE Engines were unable to perform their contractual obligations, or if we are unable to acquire or lease new aircraft or engines from aircraft or engine manufacturers or lessors on acceptable terms, we would have to find another supplier for a similar type of aircraft or engine. If we have to lease or purchase aircraft from another supplier, we could lose the benefits we derive from our current fleet composition. We cannot assure you that any replacement aircraft would have the same operating advantages as the Boeing 737-700/800 Next Generation or Embraer 190 aircraft that would be replaced or that Copa could lease or purchase engines that would be as reliable and efficient as the CFM 56-7B and GE CF34-10. We may also incur substantial transition costs, including costs associated with retraining our employees, replacing our manuals and adapting our facilities. Our operations could also be harmed by the failure or inability of Boeing, Embraer, CFM International or GE Engines to provide sufficient parts or related support services on a timely basis. Our business would be significantly harmed if a design defect or mechanical problem with any of the types of aircraft or components that we operate were discovered that would ground any of our aircraft while the defect or problem was corrected, assuming it could be corrected at all. The use of our aircraft could be suspended or restricted by regulatory authorities in the event of any actual or perceived mechanical or design problems. Our business would also be significantly harmed if the public began to avoid flying with us due to an adverse perception of the types of aircraft that we operate stemming from safety concerns or other problems, whether real or perceived, or in the event of an accident involving those types of aircraft or components. We also depend on limited suppliers with respect to supplies obtained locally, such as our fuel. These local suppliers may not be able to maintain the pace of our growth and our requirements may exceed their capabilities, which may adversely affect our ability to execute our day to day operations and our growth strategy. We are dependent on key personnel. Our success depends to a significant extent on the ability of our senior management team and key personnel to operate and manage our business effectively. Most of our employment agreements with key personnel do not contain any non-competition provisions applicable upon termination. Competition for highly qualified personnel is intense. If we lose any executive officer, senior manager or other key employee and are not able to obtain an adequate replacement, or if we are unable to attract and retain new qualified personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our operations in Cuba, which has been identified by the U.S. Department of State as a state sponsor of terrorism, may adversely affect our reputation and the liquidity and value of our Class A shares. We currently operate approximately six daily departures to and from Cuba which provide passenger, cargo and mail transportation service. For the year ended December 31, 2013, our transported passengers to and from Cuba represented approximately 7% of our total passengers carried. Our operating revenues from Cuban operations during the year ended December 31, 2013 represented approximately 1.1% of our total consolidated operating revenues for such year. Our assets located in Cuba are insignificant. 16 Table of Contents Cuba has been identified by the United States government as a state sponsor of terrorism, and the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) administers and enforces economic and trade sanctions based on U.S. foreign policy against Cuba and certain other targeted foreign countries. You should understand that our overall business reputation may suffer as a result of our activities in Cuba, particularly if such activities grow in the future. Certain U.S. states have recently enacted legislation regarding investments by pension funds and other retirement systems in companies, such as ours, that have business activities with Cuba and other countries that have been identified as terrorist-sponsoring states. Similar legislation may be pending in other states. As a result, pension funds and other retirement systems may be subject to new reporting requirements and other burdensome restrictions with respect to investments in companies such as ours. Pension funds and similar institutions represent an important source of demand for our shares, and if their willingness to invest in and hold our shares were to diminish as a result of any such requirements or restrictions, or for any other reason, it would likely have a material adverse effect on the liquidity and value of our Class A shares. We recently incurred an intangible write-off and impairment charge as a result of a change in the operating plan for Copa Colombia. For the year ended December 31, 2013, we recognized an intangible write-off charge of $31.2 million, as a result of shifting Copa Colombia’s capacity from domestic to international markets. As of December 31, 2013, we had goodwill and intangible assets of $26.9 million principally relating to our acquisition of Copa Colombia. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, under which goodwill and other intangible assets of indefinite life are not amortized and are tested for impairment annually, or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is assessed under IFRS by comparing the carrying amount to the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit level that has been measured at the higher of its value-in-use and its fair value, by applying cash flow projections in the functional currency based on the Company’s approved business plan covering a five-year period followed by the a long-term growth rate. If the value-in-use of a reporting unit is lower than its corresponding carrying amount, we determine its corresponding fair value using methodologies generally accepted in the markets to determine the value of entities. We may recognize additional impairment charges in future periods as a result of further changes in the operations of Copa Colombia or a deterioration in conditions in the markets in which Copa Colombia operates. Risks Relating to the Airline Industry The airline industry is highly competitive. We face intense competition throughout our route network. Overall airline industry profit margins are low and industry earnings are volatile. Airlines compete in the areas of pricing, scheduling (frequency and flight times), on-time performance, frequent flyer programs and other services. Some of our competitors, such as American Airlines, have larger customer bases and greater brand recognition in the markets we serve outside Panama, and some of our competitors have significantly greater financial and marketing resources than we have. Airlines based in other countries may also receive subsidies, tax incentives or other state aid from their respective governments, which are not provided by the Panamanian government. The commencement of, or increase in, service on the routes we serve by existing or new carriers could negatively impact our operating results. Likewise, competitors’ service on routes that we are targeting for expansion may make those expansion plans less attractive. We compete with a number of other airlines that currently serve some of the routes on which we operate, including Avianca-Taca, American Airlines, Delta Air Lines, AeroMéxico, and the LAN Group, among others. Strategic alliances, bankruptcy restructurings and industry consolidations characterize the airline industry and tend to intensify competition. In 2011, the LAN Group acquired Aires, a Low-cost Colombian air carrier, which is now operated as LAN Colombia. In 2012, the LAN Group acquired the Brazilian TAM Airlines, which resulted in the creation of the LATAM Airlines Group (LATAM). In addition, several other air carriers have reorganized in recent years, including certain of our competitors, such as Avianca-Taca and Delta, and have benefited from lower operating costs and fare discounting in order to maintain cash flows and to enhance continued customer loyalty. In addition, since 2008, the airline industry has experienced increased consolidation and changes in international alliances, both of which have altered and will continue to alter the competitive landscape in the industry by resulting in the formation of airlines and alliances with increased financial resources, more extensive global networks and altered cost structures. Although we intend to compete vigorously and maintain our strong competitive position in the industry, Avianca-Taca and LAN Colombia represent a significant portion of the domestic market in Colombia and have access to greater resources as a result of their recent combinations. Therefore, Copa Colombia faces stronger competition than in recent years, and its prior results may not be indicative of its future performance. In addition, both we and Avianca-Taca joined Star Alliance on June 21, 2012. We cannot predict the extent to which participating in the same alliance as one of our direct competitors may impact our revenues, current operations or ability for future growth. 17 Table of Contents We must constantly react to changes in prices and services offered by our competitors to remain competitive. The airline industry is highly susceptible to price discounting, particularly because airlines incur very low marginal costs for providing service to passengers occupying otherwise unsold seats. Carriers use discount fares to stimulate traffic during periods of lower demand to generate cash flow and to increase market share. Any lower fares offered by one airline are often matched by competing airlines, which often results in lower industry yields with little or no increase in traffic levels. Price competition among airlines in the future could lead to lower fares or passenger traffic on some or all of our routes, which could negatively impact our profitability. We cannot assure you that any of our competitors will not undercut our fares in the future or increase capacity on routes in an effort to increase their respective market share. Although we intend to compete vigorously and to assert our rights against any predatory conduct, such activity by other airlines could reduce the level of fares or passenger traffic on our routes to the point where profitable levels of operations could not be maintained. Due to our smaller size and financial resources compared to several of our competitors, we may be less able to withstand aggressive marketing tactics or fare wars engaged in by our competitors should such events occur. Changes in aviation technology may affect our competitiveness. Aircraft relies in advance technology, from time to time this technology leave obsolete some model of aircraft which could drive a negative impact in our financial results. We may face increasing competition from low-cost carriers offering discounted fares. Traditional hub-and-spoke carriers in the United States and Europe continue to face substantial and increasing competitive pressure from low-cost carriers offering discounted fares. The low-cost carriers’ operations are typically characterized by point-to-point route networks focusing on the highest demand city pairs, high aircraft utilization, single class service and fewer in-flight amenities. As evidenced by the operations of Gol Intelligent Airlines or Gol, which continues to grow both in Brazil as well as in other South American countries, Spirit, which serves Latin America, including Panama, from Fort Lauderdale, JetBlue, which flies from Orlando to Bogota, San José, San Juan, Santo Domingo, and Nassau; and a number of low-cost carriers which operate within Mexico, among others, the low-cost carrier business model appears to be gaining acceptance in the Latin American aviation industry. As a result, we may face new and substantial competition from low-cost carriers in the future which could result in significant and lasting downward pressure on the fares we charge for flights on our routes. Significant changes or extended periods of high fuel costs or fuel supply disruptions could materially affect our operating results. Fuel costs constitute a significant portion of our total operating expenses, representing approximately 37.8% of operating expenses in 2011, 39.3% in 2012 and 37.4% in 2013. Jet fuel costs have been subject to wide fluctuations as a result of increases in demand, sudden disruptions in and other concerns about global supply, as well as market speculation. Fuel prices reached record levels during the middle of 2008, decreased substantially in 2009, and have increased once again during each of the last three years. Both the cost and availability of fuel are subject to many economic, political, weather, environmental and other factors and events occurring throughout the world that we can neither control nor accurately predict, including international political and economic circumstances such as the political instability in major oil-exporting countries in Latin America, Africa and Asia. If a future fuel supply shortage were to arise as a result of production curtailments by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, a disruption of oil imports, supply disruptions resulting from severe weather or natural disasters, the continued unrest in the Middle East or otherwise, higher fuel prices or further reductions of scheduled airline services could result. We cannot assure you that we would be able to offset any increases in the price of fuel by increasing our fares. 18 Table of Contents We routinely enter into derivative contracts for a portion of our fuel needs to protect against rising fuel costs, although in recent periods, we have entered into such arrangements on a much more selective basis. These agreements provide only limited protection against increases in the price of fuel or our counterparties’ inability to perform under the agreement, can be less effective during volatile market conditions and may be unavailable to us in the event of a deterioration in our financial condition. Because of the large volume of jet fuel that we consume in our business, entering into derivative contracts for any substantial portion of our future projected fuel requirements is costly. Fuel prices are likely to increase above their current levels and may do so in the near future, which could materially and negatively affect our operating results. Conversely, declines in fuel prices may increase the costs associated with our fuel hedging arrangements to the extent we have entered into swaps or collars. Swaps and put options sold as part of a collar obligate us to make payments to the counterparty upon settlement of the contracts if the price of the commodity hedged falls below the agreed upon amount. Historically, declining crude oil prices have resulted in our being required to post significant amounts of collateral to cover potential amounts owed with respect to swap and collar contracts that have not yet settled. Additionally, lower fuel prices may result in lower fares through the reduction or elimination of fuel surcharges. We may experience difficulty recruiting, training and retaining pilots and other employees. The airline industry is a labor-intensive business. We employ a large number of flight attendants, maintenance technicians and other operating and administrative personnel. The airline industry has, from time to time, experienced a shortage of qualified personnel. In addition, as is common with most of our competitors, we may, from time to time, face considerable turnover of our employees. Should the turnover of employees sharply increase, our training costs will be significantly higher. We cannot assure you that we will be able to recruit, train and retain the qualified employees that we need to continue our current operations or replace departing employees. A failure to hire and retain qualified employees at a reasonable cost could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under Panamanian law, there is a limit on the maximum number of non-Panamanian employees that we may employ. Our need for qualified pilots at times exceeded the domestic supply and as such we have had to hire a substantial number of non-Panamanian national pilots. We cannot assure you that we will continue to attract foreign pilots or obtain government approvals to hire such pilots. The inability to attract and retain pilots may adversely affect our growth strategy by limiting our ability to add new routes or increase the frequency of existing routes. Because the airline industry is characterized by high fixed costs and relatively elastic revenues, airlines cannot quickly reduce their costs to respond to shortfalls in expected revenue. The airline industry is characterized by low gross profit margins, high fixed costs and revenues that generally exhibit substantially greater elasticity than costs. The operating costs of each flight do not vary significantly with the number of passengers flown and, therefore, a relatively small change in the number of passengers, fare pricing or traffic mix could have a significant effect on operating and financial results. These fixed costs cannot be adjusted quickly to respond to changes in revenues and a shortfall from expected revenue levels could have a material adverse effect on our net income. Our business may be adversely affected by downturns in the airline industry caused by terrorist attacks, political unrest, war or outbreak of disease, which may alter travel behavior or increase costs. Demand for air transportation may be adversely affected by terrorist attacks, war or political and social instability, epidemics, natural disasters and other events. Any of these events in the markets in which we operate could have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, these types of situations could have a prolonged effect on air transportation demand and on certain cost items, such as security and insurance costs. 19 Table of Contents The terrorist attacks in the United States on September 11, 2001, for example had a severe and lasting adverse impact on the airline industry, in particular, a decrease in airline traffic in the United States and, to a lesser extent, in Latin America. Our revenues depend on the number of passengers traveling on our flights. Therefore, any future terrorist attacks or threat of attacks, whether or not involving commercial aircraft, any increase in hostilities relating to reprisals against terrorist organizations, including an escalation of military involvement in the Middle East, or otherwise and any related economic impact could result in decreased passenger traffic and materially and negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. An outbreak of a disease or similar public health threat could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial position and results of operations. An outbreak of a disease or similar public health threat that affects travel demand or travel behavior, or travel restrictions or reduction in the demand for air travel caused by an outbreak of a disease or similar public health threat in the future, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Increases in insurance costs and/or significant reductions in coverage would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Following the 2001 terrorist attacks, premiums for insurance against aircraft damage and liability to third parties increased substantially, and insurers could reduce their coverage or increase their premiums even further in the event of additional terrorist attacks, hijackings, airline crashes or other events adversely affecting the airline industry abroad or in Latin America. In the future, certain aviation insurance could become unaffordable, unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage that are insufficient to comply with the levels of insurance coverage required by aircraft lenders and lessors or applicable government regulations. While governments in other countries have agreed to indemnify airlines for liabilities that they might incur from terrorist attacks or provide low-cost insurance for terrorism risks, the Panamanian government has not indicated an intention to provide similar benefits to us. Increases in the cost of insurance may result in both higher fares and a decreased demand for air travel generally, which could materially and negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to comply with applicable environmental regulations could adversely affect our business. Our operations are covered by various local, national and international environmental regulations. These regulations cover, among other things, emissions to the atmosphere, disposal of solid waste and aqueous effluents, aircraft noise and other activities that result from the operation of aircraft. Future operations and financial results may vary as a result of such regulations. Compliance with these regulations and new or existing regulations that may be applicable to us in the future could increase our cost base and adversely affect our operations and financial results. Risks Relating to Panama and our Region We are highly dependent on conditions in Panama and, to a lesser extent, in Colombia. A substantial portion of our assets are located in the Republic of Panama and a significant proportion of our passengers’ trips either originates or ends in Panama. Furthermore, substantially all of Copa’s flights operate through our hub at Tocumen International Airport. As a result, we depend on economic and political conditions prevailing from time to time in Panama. Panama’s economic conditions in turn highly depend on the continued profitability and economic impact of the Panama Canal. Control of the Panama Canal and many other assets were transferred from the United States to Panama in 1999 after nearly a century of U.S. control. Political events in Panama may significantly affect our operations. 20 Table of Contents Copa Colombia’s results of operations are highly sensitive to macroeconomic and political conditions prevailing in Colombia, which have been highly volatile and unstable in recent decades. Although the state of affairs in Colombia has been steadily improving since 2002, political unrest and instability in Colombia could resume, which could adversely affect Copa Colombia’s financial condition and results of operations. According to International Monetary Fund estimates, the Panamanian and Colombian economies are expected to grow by 7.5% and 3.7%, respectively, in 2014 as measured by their GDP, however, if either economy experiences a sustained recession, or significant political disruptions, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and negatively affected. Any increase in the taxes we or our shareholders pay in Panama or the other countries where we do business could adversely affect the value of our Class A shares. We cannot assure you that we will continue to pay taxes at our current rate. Our provision for income taxes was $35.6 million, $39.9 million, and $60.1 million in the years ended December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, which represented an effective income tax rate of 10.3%, 10.9%, and 12.5% for the respective periods. We are subject to local tax regulations in each of the jurisdictions where we operate, the great majority of which are related to the taxation of income. In some of the countries to which we fly, we do not pay any income taxes, because we do not generate income under the laws of those countries either because they do not have income tax or because of treaties or other arrangements those countries have with Panama. In the remaining countries, we pay income tax at a rate ranging from 25% to 34% of income. Different countries calculate income in different ways, but they are typically derived from sales in the applicable country multiplied by our net margin or by a presumed net margin set by the relevant tax legislation. The determination of our taxable income in certain countries is based on a combination of revenues sourced to each particular country and the allocation of expenses of our operations to that particular country. The methodology for multinational transportation company sourcing of revenue and expense is not always specifically prescribed in the relevant tax regulations, and therefore is subject to interpretation by both us and the respective taxing authorities. Additionally, in some countries, the applicability of certain regulations governing non-income taxes and the determination of our filing status are also subject to interpretation. We cannot estimate the amount, if any, of potential tax liabilities that might result if the allocations, interpretations and filing positions used by us in our tax returns were challenged by the taxing authorities of one or more countries. If taxes were to increase, our financial performance and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Due to the competitive revenue environment, many increases in fees and taxes have been absorbed by the airline industry rather than being passed on to the passenger. Any such increases in our fees and taxes may reduce demand for air travel and thus our revenues. In 2010, the Panamanian tax code for the airline industry was amended to make taxes based on net income earned for traffic whose origin or final destination is the Republic of Panama. The applicable tax rate for 2010 was 27.5%. For 2011 and going forward, the applicable tax rate has been established at 25.0%. On December 30, 2013, the Panamanian National Assembly approved amendments to the tax code that would have changed Panama’s tax system from a territoriality regime to a global tax regime, subject to certain exceptions. Although these amendments were repealed on January 10, 2014 by the Assembly, the Panamanian tax code could be subject to further change in the future, which changes could materially increase our effective tax rate. Dividends from our Panamanian subsidiaries, including Copa, are separately subject to a 10% percent withholding tax on the portion attributable to Panamanian sourced income and a 5% withholding tax on the portion attributable to foreign sourced income. Additionally, a 7% value added tax is levied on tickets issued in Panama for travel commencing in Panama and going abroad, irrespective of where such tickets were ordered. Political unrest and instability in Latin American countries in which we operate may adversely affect our business and the market price of our Class A shares. While geographic diversity helps to reduce our exposure to risks in any one country, we operate primarily within Latin America and are subject to a full range of risks associated with our international operations. These risks may include unstable political or economic conditions, lack of well-established or reliable legal systems, exchange controls and other limits on our ability to repatriate earnings and changeable legal and regulatory requirements. In Venezuela and Argentina, for example, we and other airlines and foreign companies may only repatriate cash through specific governmental programs, which may effectively preclude us from repatriating cash for periods of time. For the year ended December 31, 2013, 15.5% and 8.3% of our revenue originated from sales in Venezuela and Argentina, respectively. Each of Venezuela and Argentina have experienced difficult political conditions in recent periods as well as governmental actions that have adversely impacted businesses that conduct operations in those countries. See “We hold substantial amount in Venezuelan bolivars and our Venezuelan operations could be adversely affected by conditions in Venezuela or by relations between Panama and Venezuela.” 21 Table of Contents Although conditions throughout Latin America vary from country to country, our customers’ reactions to developments in Latin America generally may result in a reduction in passenger traffic, which could materially and negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our Class A shares. Risks Relating to Our Class A Shares The value of our Class A shares may be adversely affected by ownership restrictions on our capital stock and the power of our Board of Directors to take remedial actions to preserve our operating license and international route rights by requiring sales of certain outstanding shares or issuing new stock. Pursuant to the Panamanian Aviation Act, as amended and interpreted to date, and certain of the bilateral treaties affording us the right to fly to other countries, we are required to be “substantially owned” and “effectively controlled” by Panamanian nationals. Our failure to comply with such requirements could result in the loss of our Panamanian operating license and/or our right to fly to certain important countries. Our Articles of Incorporation (Pacto Social) give special powers to our independent directors to take certain significant actions to attempt to ensure that the amount of shares held in us by non-Panamanian nationals does not reach a level which could jeopardize our compliance with Panamanian and bilateral ownership and control requirements. If our independent directors determine it is reasonably likely that we will be in violation of these ownership and control requirements and our Class B shares represent less than 10% of our total outstanding capital stock (excluding newly issued shares sold with the approval of our independent directors committee), our independent directors will have the power to issue additional Class B shares or Class C shares with special voting rights solely to Panamanian nationals. See “10B. Memorandum and Articles of Association—Description of Capital Stock.” If any of these remedial actions are taken, the trading price of the Class A shares may be materially and adversely affected. An issuance of Class C shares could have the effect of discouraging certain changes of control of Copa Holdings or may reduce any voting power that the Class A shares enjoy prior to the Class C share issuance. There can be no assurance that we would be able to complete an issuance of Class B shares to Panamanian nationals. We cannot assure you that restrictions on ownership by non-Panamanian nationals will not impede the development of an active public trading market for the Class A shares, adversely affect the market price of the Class A shares or materially limit our ability to raise capital in markets outside of Panama in the future. Our controlling shareholder has the ability to direct our business and affairs, and its interests could conflict with yours. All of our Class B shares, representing approximately 24.8% of the economic interest in Copa Holdings and all of the voting power of our capital stock, are owned by CIASA. CIASA is in turn controlled by a group of Panamanian investors. In order to comply with the Panamanian Aviation Act, as amended and interpreted to date, we have amended our organizational documents to modify our share capital so that CIASA will continue to exercise voting control of Copa Holdings. CIASA will not be able to transfer its voting control unless control of our Company will remain with Panamanian nationals. CIASA will maintain voting control of the Company so long as CIASA continues to own a majority of our Class B shares and the Class B shares continue to represent more than 10% of our total share capital (excluding newly issued shares sold with the approval of our independent directors committee). Even after CIASA ceases to own the majority of the voting power of our capital stock, CIASA may continue to control our Board of Directors indirectly through its control of our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. As the controlling shareholder, CIASA may direct us to take actions that could be contrary to your interests and under certain circumstances CIASA will be able to prevent other shareholders, including you, from blocking these actions. Also, CIASA may prevent change of control transactions that might otherwise provide you with an opportunity to dispose of or realize a premium on your investment in our Class A shares. 22 Table of Contents The Class A shares will only be permitted to vote in very limited circumstances and may never have full voting rights. The holders of Class A shares have no right to vote at our shareholders’ meetings except with respect to corporate transformations of Copa Holdings, mergers, consolidations or spin-offs of Copa Holdings, changes of corporate purpose, voluntary delisting of the Class A shares from the NYSE, the approval of nominations of our independent directors and amendments to the foregoing provisions that adversely affect the rights and privileges of any Class A shares. The holders of Class B shares have the power, subject to our supplemental agreement with UAL, to elect the Board of Directors and to determine the outcome of all other matters to be decided by a vote of shareholders. Class A shares will not have full voting rights unless the Class B shares represent less than 10% of our total capital stock (excluding newly issued shares sold with the approval of our independent directors committee). See “Item 10B. Memorandum and Articles of Association—Description of Capital Stock.” We cannot assure you that the Class A shares will ever carry full voting rights. Substantial future sales of our Class A shares by CIASA could cause the price of the Class A shares to decrease. CIASA owns all of our Class B shares, and those Class B shares will be converted into Class A shares if they are sold to non-Panamanian investors. In connection with our initial public offering in December 2005, Continental and CIASA reduced their ownership of our total capital stock from 49% to approximately 27.3% and from 51% to approximately 25.1%, respectively. In a follow-on offering in June 2006, Continental further reduced its ownership of our total capital stock from 27.3% to 10.0%. In May 2008, we and CIASA, released Continental from its standstill obligations and they sold down their remaining shares in the public market. CIASA holds registration rights with respect to a significant portion of its shares pursuant to a registration rights agreement entered into in connection with our initial public offering. In March 2010, CIASA converted a portion of its Class B shares into 1.6 million non-voting Class A shares and sold such Class A shares in a SEC registered public offering. In the event CIASA seeks to reduce its ownership below 10% of our total share capital, our independent directors may decide to issue special voting shares solely to Panamanian nationals to maintain the ownership requirements mandated by the Panamanian Aviation Act. As a result, the market price of our Class A shares could drop significantly if CIASA further reduces its investment in us, other significant holders of our shares sell a significant number of shares or if the market perceives CIASA or other significant holders intend to sell them. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights, and as a result you may experience substantial dilution upon future issuances of stock by us. Under Panamanian corporate law and our organizational documents, holders of our Class A shares are not entitled to any preemptive rights with respect to future issuances of capital stock by us. Therefore, unlike companies organized under the laws of many other Latin American jurisdictions, we are free to issue new shares of stock to other parties without first offering them to our existing shareholders. In the future we may sell Class A or other shares to persons other than our existing shareholders at a lower price than the shares already sold, and as a result you may experience substantial dilution of your interest in us. You may not be able to sell our Class A shares at the price or at the time you desire because an active or liquid market for the Class A shares may not continue. Our Class A shares are listed on the NYSE. During the three months ended December 31, 2013, the average daily trading volume for our Class A shares as reported by the NYSE was approximately 261,842 shares. We cannot predict whether an active liquid public trading market for our Class A shares will be sustained. Active, liquid trading markets generally result in lower price volatility and more efficient execution of buy and sell orders for our investors. The liquidity of a securities market is often affected by the volume of shares publicly held by unrelated parties. 23 Table of Contents Our Board of Directors may, in its discretion, amend or repeal our dividend policy. You may not receive the level of dividends provided for in the dividend policy or any dividends at all. Our Board of Directors has adopted a dividend policy that provides for the payment of dividends to shareholders in an amount of up to 40% of the prior year’s annual consolidated net income, distributed in equal quarterly installments. Our Board of Directors may, in its sole discretion and for any reason, amend or repeal any aspect of this dividend policy. On November 27, 2012, for example, our Board of Directors decided to accelerate the 2012 payment from June 2013 to December 27, 2012. Our Board of Directors may decrease the level of dividends provided for in this dividend policy or entirely discontinue the payment of dividends. Future dividends with respect to shares of our common stock, if any, will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions, business opportunities, provisions of applicable law and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant. See “Item 8A. Consolidated Financial Statements and Other Financial Information—Dividend Policy.” To the extent we pay dividends to our shareholders, we will have less capital available to meet our future liquidity needs. Our Board of Directors has adopted a dividend policy that provides for the payment of dividends to shareholders in an amount of up to 40% of the prior year’s annual consolidated net income, distributed in equal quarterly installments. Our Board of Directors has also reserved the right to amend the dividend policy, or pay dividends in excess of the level circumscribed in the dividend policy. The aviation industry has cyclical characteristics, and many international airlines are currently experiencing difficulties meeting their liquidity needs. Also, our business strategy contemplates substantial growth over the next several years, and we expect such growth will require a great deal of liquidity. To the extent that we pay dividends in accordance with, or in excess of, our dividend policy, the money that we distribute to shareholders will not be available to us to fund future growth and meet our other liquidity needs. Our Articles of Incorporation impose ownership and control restrictions on our Company which ensure that Panamanian nationals will continue to control us and that these restrictions operate to prevent any change of control or some transfers of ownership in order to comply with the Aviation Act and other bilateral restrictions. Under the Panamanian Aviation Act, as amended and interpreted to date, Panamanian nationals must exercise “effective control” over the operations of the airline and must maintain “substantial ownership.” These phrases are not defined in the Aviation Act itself and it is unclear how a Panamanian court would interpret them. The share ownership requirements and transfer restrictions contained in our Articles of Incorporation, as well as the dual-class structure of our voting capital stock are designed to ensure compliance with these ownership and control restrictions. See “Item 10B. Memorandum and Articles of Association—Description of Capital Stock.” These provisions of our Articles of Incorporation may prevent change of control transactions that might otherwise provide you with an opportunity to realize a premium on your investment in our Class A shares. They also ensure that Panamanians will continue to control all the decisions of our Company for the foreseeable future. The protections afforded to minority shareholders in Panama are different from and more limited than those in the United States and may be more difficult to enforce. Under Panamanian law, the protections afforded to minority shareholders are different from, and much more limited than, those in the United States and some other Latin American countries. For example, the legal framework with respect to shareholder disputes is less developed under Panamanian law than under U.S. law and there are different procedural requirements for bringing shareholder lawsuits, including shareholder derivative suits. As a result, it may be more difficult for our minority shareholders to enforce their rights against us or our directors or controlling shareholder than it would be for shareholders of a U.S. company. In addition, Panamanian law does not afford minority shareholders as many protections for investors through corporate governance mechanisms as in the United States and provides no mandatory tender offer or similar protective mechanisms for minority shareholders in the event of a change in control. While our Articles of Incorporation provide limited rights to holders of our Class A shares to sell their shares at the same price as CIASA in the event that a sale of Class B shares by CIASA results in the purchaser having the right to elect a majority of our board, there are other change of control transactions in which holders of our Class A shares would not have the right to participate, including the sale of interests by a party that had previously acquired Class B shares from CIASA, the sale of interests by another party in conjunction with a sale by CIASA, the sale by CIASA of control to more than one party, or the sale of controlling interests in CIASA itself. 24 Table of Contents 