Item 1A. Risk Factors This section should be read carefully considering the risks described below as well as other information and data included in this report. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to the Nature and Operation of Our Business The enterprise network communications industry is highly competitive. We may be unsuccessful in competing effectively against other terrestrial and satellite-based network providers in our Enterprise groups. We operate in a highly competitive enterprise network communications industry in the sale and lease of our products and services. Our industry is characterized by competitive pressures to provide enhanced functionality for the same or lower price with each new generation of technology. As the prices of our products decrease, we will need to sell more products and/or reduce the per-unit costs to improve or maintain our results of operations. Our Enterprise groups face competition from providers of terrestrial-based networks, such as Digital Subscriber Line (“DSL”), cable modem service, Multiprotocol Label Switching and Internet protocol-based virtual private networks, which may have advantages over satellite networks for certain customer applications. Terrestrial-based networks are offered by telecommunications carriers and other large companies, many of which have substantially greater financial resources and greater name recognition than us. The costs of a satellite network may exceed those of a terrestrial-based network, especially in areas that have experienced significant DSL and cable Internet build-out. It may become more difficult for us to compete with terrestrial providers as the number of these areas increase and the cost of their network and hardware services declines. We also compete for enterprise clients with other satellite network providers, satellite providers that are targeting small and medium businesses and smaller independent systems integrators on procurement projects. In Asia and Latin America, the build-out of terrestrial networks has adversely impacted demand for very small aperture terminal (“VSAT”) services and regulation and inequitable access remain barriers to new business. The consumer network communications market is highly competitive. We may be unsuccessful in competing effectively against DSL and cable service providers and other satellite broadband providers in the Consumer market. We face competition in our Consumer group primarily from DSL and cable Internet service providers. Also, other satellite and wireless broadband companies have launched or are planning the launch of consumer satellite Internet access services in competition with us in North America. Some of these competitors offer consumer services and hardware at lower prices than ours. In addition, terrestrial alternatives do not require our external dish which may limit customer acceptance of our products. If we are unable to develop, introduce and market new products, applications and services on a cost effective and timely basis, or if we are unable to sell our new products and services to existing and new customers, our business could be adversely affected. The network communications market is characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product introductions and evolving industry standards. If we fail to develop new technology or keep pace with significant industry technological changes, our existing products and technology could be rendered obsolete. Even if we keep up with technological innovation, we may not meet the demands of the network communications market. For example, our large enterprise customers may only choose to renew services with us at substantially lower prices or for a decreased level of service. Many of our large enterprise customers have existing networks available to them and may opt to find alternatives to our VSAT services or may renew with us solely as a backup network. If we are unable to respond to technological advances on a cost effective and timely basis, or if our 20 Table of Contents products or applications are not accepted by the market, then our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Economic factors may result in reduced demand and pricing pressure on our products and services. Our business depends on the economic health and willingness of our customers and potential customers to make and adhere to capital and financial commitments to purchase our products and services. The U.S. and world economic markets have been undergoing a period of slowdown or recession, and the future economic environment may continue to be unfavorable. In addition, the telecommunications industry has been facing significant challenges resulting from excess capacity, new technologies and intense price competition. If the conditions in the U.S. and world economic markets continue to be volatile or deteriorate further or if the telecommunications industry experiences future weaknesses, we could experience reduced demand for, and pricing pressure on, our products and services, which could lead to a reduction in our revenues and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face risks associated with our satellites. If we are unable to continue to operate SPACEWAY 3, or to launch or operate Jupiter, as a result of any of the following risks, we will be unable to realize the anticipated benefits from such satellites, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected: • Business plan—Our business plan may be unsuccessful, and we may not be able to achieve the cost savings that we expect from our satellites. A failure to attract a sufficient number of customers would result in our inability to realize the cost savings that we expect to achieve from the anticipated lower costs of bandwidth associated with the capacity of our satellites. In addition, we will continue to incur start-up losses associated with the launch and operation of our satellites until we acquire a sufficient number of customers. • Regulatory license risk—Our satellites are primarily intended to provide services to North America. Spacecraft operations are subject to compliance with the licensing conditions of the United States Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) and those of any other government whose International Telecommunication Union filings we may use to operate our satellites in the future. Satellite authorizations granted by the FCC or foreign regulatory agencies are typically subject to conditions imposed by such regulatory agency in addition to such agency’s general authority to modify, cancel or revoke those authorizations. Failure to comply with such requirements, or comply in a timely manner could lead to the loss of authorizations and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. • In-orbit risks—SPACEWAY 3 is, and Jupiter will be, subject to similar potential satellite failures or performance degradations as other satellites. In-orbit risks similar to those described below under “—Satellite failures or degradations in satellite performance could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations” apply to our satellites. To the extent there is an anomaly or other in-orbit failure with respect to SPACEWAY 3, we do not currently have a replacement satellite or backup transponder capacity and would have to identify and lease alternative transponder capacity that may not be available on economic terms or at all. Likewise, if we send erroneous or corrupted signals to one of our satellites from the ground, such errors or corruption may result in a temporary or permanent loss of ability to use some or all of the communications capacity of such satellite. Additionally, we could be required to reposition the antennas of our customers, which would entail significant cost and could require new or modified licenses from regulatory authorities. • Insurance—The price, terms and availability of satellite insurance can fluctuate significantly. These policies may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In addition to higher premiums, insurance policies may provide for higher deductibles, shorter coverage periods and policy exclusions related to satellite health. 21 Table of Contents • Launch risks—There are risks associated with the launch of satellites, including launch failure, damage or destruction during launch and improper orbital placement. Launch failures result in significant delays in the deployment of satellites because of the need both to construct replacement satellites, which can take up to 36-48 months, and obtain other launch opportunities. Only certain launch vehicles can lift and place into orbit spacecraft in the mass range of the Jupiter satellite, which further limits the launch opportunities for the Jupiter satellite. The overall historical loss rate in the satellite industry for all launches of commercial satellites in fixed orbits in the last five years is estimated by some industry participants to be 5% but may be higher. In April 2010, we entered into an agreement with Arianespace for the launch of our Jupiter satellite in the first half of 2012. • Cost and schedule risks—We may be required to spend in excess of our current forecast for the launch and launch insurance for our Jupiter satellite. The launch of satellites is often subject to delays resulting from launch vehicle construction delays, cost overruns, periodic unavailability of reliable launch opportunities and delays in obtaining regulatory approvals. Satellite failures or degradations in satellite performance could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For many of our customers, we lease satellite transponder capacity from fixed satellite service (“FSS”) providers in order to send and receive data communications to and from our VSAT networks. Beginning on April 3, 2008, we also began providing capacity on our SPACEWAY 3 satellite. Satellites are subject to in-orbit risks including malfunctions, commonly referred to as anomalies, and collisions with meteoroids, decommissioned spacecraft or other space debris. Anomalies occur as a result of various factors, such as satellite manufacturing errors, problems with the power systems or control systems of the satellites and general failures resulting from operating satellites in the harsh space environment. For risks associated with anomalies affecting our satellites, see “—We face risks associated with our satellites.” Any single anomaly or series of anomalies affecting the satellites on which we lease transponder capacity could materially adversely affect our operations and revenues and our relationships with current customers, as well as our ability to attract new customers for our satellite services. Anomalies may also reduce the expected useful life of a satellite, thereby creating additional expenses due to the need to provide replacement or backup capacity and potentially reduce revenues if service is interrupted on the satellites we utilize. We may not be able to obtain backup capacity at similar prices, or at all. In addition, an increased frequency of anomalies could impact market acceptance of our services. Any failure on our part to perform our VSAT service contracts or provide satellite broadband access as a result of satellite failures could result in: (i) a loss of revenue despite continued obligations under our leasing arrangements; (ii) possible cancellation of our long-term contracts; (iii) inability to continue with our subscription-based customers; (iv) incurring additional expenses to reposition customer antennas to alternative satellites; and (v) damaging our reputation, which could negatively affect our ability to retain existing customers or to gain new business. The cancellation of long-term contracts due to service disruptions is an exception to the generally non-cancelable nature of our contracts, and such cancellation would reduce our revenue backlog described in this report. See “—The failure to adequately anticipate the need for transponder capacity or the inability to obtain transponder capacity could harm our results of operations.” The failure to adequately anticipate the need for transponder capacity or the inability to obtain transponder capacity could harm our results of operations. We have made substantial contractual commitments for transponder capacity based on our existing customer contracts and backlog, as well as anticipated future business, to the extent our existing customers are not expected to utilize our SPACEWAY 3 satellite. If future demand does not meet our expectations, we will be committed to maintain excess transponder capacity for which we will have no or insufficient revenues to cover our costs, which would have a negative impact on our margins and results of operations. Our transponder leases 22 Table of Contents are generally for two to five years, and different leases cover satellites with coverage of different geographical areas or support different applications and features, so we may not be able to quickly or easily adjust our capacity to changes in demand. If we only purchase transponder capacity based on existing contracts and bookings, capacity for certain types of coverage in the future that cannot be readily served by SPACEWAY 3 may be unavailable to us and we may not be able to satisfy certain needs of our customers, which could result in a loss of possible new business and could negatively impact the margins earned for those services. At present, until the launch and operation of additional satellites, there is limited availability of capacity on the Ku-band frequencies in North America. In addition, the FSS industry has seen consolidation in the past decade, and today, the three main FSS providers in North America and a number of smaller regional providers own and operate the current satellites that are available for our capacity needs. The failure of any of these FSS providers or a downturn in their industry as a whole could reduce or interrupt the Ku-band capacity available to us. If we are not able to renew our capacity leases at economically viable rates, or if capacity is not available due to any problems of the FSS providers, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected, to the extent SPACEWAY 3 and Jupiter are unable to satisfy the associated demand. Our networks and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security risks. We expect the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks to continue to be a critical element of our operations. Our networks and those of our third-party service providers and our customers may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses and other security problems. Persons who circumvent security measures could wrongfully obtain or use information on the network or cause interruptions, delays or malfunctions in our operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems, including reputational harm and litigation, caused by any breaches. In addition, our customer contracts, in general, do not contain provisions which would protect us against liability to third parties with whom our customers conduct business. Although we have implemented and intend to continue to implement industry-standard security measures, these measures may prove to be inadequate and result in system failures and delays that could lower network operations center availability and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon suppliers of components, manufacturing outsourcing, installation, and customer service, and our results of operations may be materially affected if any of these third-party providers fail to appropriately deliver the contracted goods or services. We are dependent upon third-party services and products provided to us, including the following: • Components—A limited number of suppliers manufacture some of the key components required to build our VSATs. These key components may not be continually available and we may not be able to forecast our component requirements sufficiently in advance, which may have a detrimental effect on supply. If we are required to change suppliers for any reason, we would experience a delay in manufacturing our products if another supplier is not able to meet our requirements on a timely basis. In addition, if we are unable to obtain the necessary volumes of components on favorable terms or prices on a timely basis, we may be unable to produce our products at competitive prices and we may be unable to satisfy demand from our customers. • Commodity Price Risk—All of our products contain components whose base raw materials have undergone dramatic cost fluctuations in the last 24 months. Fluctuations in pricing of raw materials have the ability to affect our product costs. Although we have been successful in offsetting or mitigating our exposure to these fluctuations, such changes could have an adverse impact on our product costs. • Manufacturing outsourcing—While we develop and manufacture prototypes for our products, we use contract manufacturers to produce a significant portion of our hardware. If these contract manufacturers fail to provide products that meet our specifications in a timely manner, then our customer relationships may be harmed. 23 Table of Contents • Installation and customer support service—Each of our North American and international operations utilize a network of third-party installers to deploy our hardware. In addition, a portion of our customer support and management is provided by offshore call centers. Since we provide customized services for our customers that are essential to their operations, a decline in levels of service or attention to the needs of our customers or the occurrence of negligent and careless acts could adversely affect our reputation, renewal rates and ability to win new business. If our products contain defects, we could be subject to significant costs to correct such defects and our product and network service contracts could be delayed or cancelled, which could expose us to significant liability and adversely affect our revenues. The products and the networks we deploy are highly complex, and some may contain defects when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released, despite extensive testing and our quality control procedures. In addition, many of our products and network services are designed to interface with our customers’ existing networks, each of which has different specifications and utilize multiple protocol standards. Our products and services must interoperate with the other products and services within our customers’ networks, as well as with future products and services that might be added to these networks, to meet our customers’ requirements. Further, in the Consumer market, our products are usually installed in residential and other locations where there might be a higher likelihood of product liability claims relating to improper or unsafe products or installations. The occurrence of any defects, errors or failures in our products or network services could result in: (i) additional costs to correct such defects; (ii) cancellation of orders; (iii) a reduction in revenue backlog; (iv) product returns or recalls; (v) diversion of our resources; (vi) legal actions by our customers or our customers’ end users, including for damages caused by a defective product; and (vii) the issuance of credits to customers and other losses to us, our customers or end users. Any of these occurrences could also result in the loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products and services and loss of sales, which would harm our reputation and our business and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. In addition, our insurance would not cover the cost of correcting significant errors, defects, or security problems. Our failure to develop, obtain or protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our future performance and growth. We rely on a combination of United States and foreign patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws as well as licenses, nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual agreements or restrictions to protect our proprietary rights to the technologies and inventions used in our services and products, including proprietary VSAT technology and related services and products. We have registered trademarks and patents and have pending trademark and patent applications in the United States and a number of foreign countries. However, our patent and trademark applications may not be allowed by the applicable governmental authorities to issue as patents or register as trademarks at all, or in a form that will be advantageous to us. In addition, in some instances, we may not have registered important patent and trademark rights in these and other countries. If we fail to timely file a patent application in any such country, we may be precluded from doing so at a later date. In addition, the laws of some countries do not protect and do not allow us to enforce our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Accordingly, we might not be able to protect our proprietary products and technologies against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could negatively affect our competitive position. Furthermore, our intellectual property may prove inadequate to protect our proprietary rights, may be infringed or misappropriated by others, or may diminish in value over time. Our competitors may be able to freely make use of our patented technology after our patents expire or may challenge the validity, enforceability or scope of our patents, trademarks or trade secrets. Competitors also may independently develop products or services that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. In addition, it may be possible for third parties to reverse-engineer, otherwise obtain, copy and use information that we regard as proprietary. If we are unable to protect our services and products through the enforcement of our intellectual property rights, our ability to compete based on our current market advantages may be harmed. 24 Table of Contents We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. If we fail to prevent substantial unauthorized access to our trade secrets, we risk the loss of those intellectual property rights and whatever competitive advantage they provide us. Claims that our services and products infringe the intellectual property rights of others could increase our costs and reduce our sales, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We have received, and may in the future receive, communications from third parties claiming that we or our products infringe upon the intellectual property rights of third parties. In addition, we may be named in the future as a defendant in lawsuits claiming that our services or products infringe upon the intellectual property rights of third parties. Litigation may be necessary to determine the validity and scope of third-party rights or to defend against claims of infringement. Litigation may also be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend against claims that our intellectual property rights are invalid or unenforceable. Such litigation, regardless of the outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, including time and attention of management and other key personnel, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect to be increasingly subject to such claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry grows. We may not be aware of all intellectual property rights that our services or products may potentially infringe. Further, without lengthy litigation, it may not be possible to determine definitively whether a claim of infringement is valid. We cannot estimate the extent to which we may be required in the future to obtain intellectual property licenses or the availability and cost of any such licenses. Those costs, and their impact on our earnings, could be material. Damages in patent infringement cases may also include treble damages in certain circumstances. If a third party holds intellectual property rights, it may not allow us to use our intellectual property at any price, or on terms acceptable to us, which could materially adversely affect our competitive position. To the extent that we are required to pay royalties to third parties to whom we are not currently making payments, these increased costs of doing business could materially adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, under some of our agreements with customers, we are not permitted to use all or some of the intellectual property developed for that customer for other customers and in other cases, we have agreed not to provide similar services to such customers’ competitors. Further, our service agreements with our customers generally provide that we will defend and indemnify them for claims against them relating to our alleged infringement of third-party intellectual property rights with respect to services and products we provide. Third parties may assert infringement claims against our customers. These claims may require us to initiate or defend protracted and costly litigation on behalf of our customers, regardless of the merits of these claims. If any of these claims succeed, we may be forced to pay damages on behalf of our customers or may be required to obtain licenses for the products they use. If we cannot obtain all necessary licenses on commercially reasonably terms, our customers may be forced to stop using our products. In addition, our patents, trademarks and other proprietary rights may be subject to various attacks claiming they are invalid or unenforceable. These attacks might invalidate, render unenforceable or otherwise limit the scope of the protection that our patents, trademarks and other rights afford us. If we lose the use of a product name or brand name, our efforts spent on building that brand may be lost, and we will have to rebuild a brand for that product, which we may or may not be able to do, and which would cause us to incur new costs in connection with building such brand name. If we are involved in a patent infringement suit, even if we prevail, there is no assurance that third parties will not be able to design around our patents, which could harm our competitive position. 25 Table of Contents If we are unable to license technology from third parties on satisfactory terms, our developmental costs could increase and we may not be able to deploy our services and products in a timely manner. We depend, in part, on technology that we license from third parties on a non-exclusive basis and integrate into our products and service offerings. Licenses for third-party technology that we use in our current products may be terminated or not renewed, and we may be unable to license third-party technology necessary for such products in the future. Furthermore, we may be unable to renegotiate acceptable third-party license terms to reflect changes in our pricing models. Changes to or the loss of a third-party license could lead to an increase in the costs of licensing or inoperability of products or network services. In addition, technology licensed from third parties may have undetected errors that impair the functionality or prevent the successful integration of our products or services. As a result of any such changes or loss, we may need to incur additional development costs to ensure continued performance of our products or suffer delays until replacement technology, if available, can be obtained and integrated. We are majority-owned by various investment vehicles affiliated with Apollo and Apollo’s interests as an equity holder may conflict with the interests of the holders of HNS’ debt instruments or with the other equity holders of the Company. At December 31, 2010, Apollo Management, L.P., together with its affiliates (“Apollo”) owned in the aggregate 12,408,611 shares, or approximately 56.8%, of our issued and outstanding common stock. Therefore, Apollo has control over our management and policies, such as the election of our directors, the appointment of new management and the approval of any other action requiring the approval of our stockholders, including any amendments to our certificate of incorporation and mergers or sales of all or substantially all of our assets. The interests of Apollo may not in all cases be aligned with those of the holders of HNS’ 9.50% senior notes issued in 2006 and 2009 (collectively, the “Senior Notes”) or those of the other holders of our common stock. In addition, if the Merger is not consummated, the level of Apollo’s ownership of our common stock could have the effect of discouraging or impeding an unsolicited acquisition proposal in the future. Furthermore, Apollo may, in the future, own businesses that directly or indirectly compete with us. Apollo may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Subject to limitations contained in HNS’ Limited Liability Company Agreement, the indentures governing the Senior Notes, HNS’ $50.0 million revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”), HNS’ $115.0 million term loan facility (the “Term Loan Facility”), HNS’ $115 million loan agreement with BNP Paribas and Societe Generale (“COFACE Guaranteed Facility”), which is guaranteed by COFACE, the French Export Credit Agency, and the Merger Agreement regarding affiliate transactions, Apollo may cause the Company or HNS to enter into transactions with their affiliates to buy or sell assets. We are a holding company and the inability of our subsidiaries to pay distributions or dividends or transfer funds or other assets to us would harm our ability to pay future dividends. We are a holding company and our principal assets are membership interests of HNS and cash. Although we do not currently intend to pay dividends on our shares of common stock for the foreseeable future (See “—Risks Relating to our Common Stock”), in the event that we choose to pay dividends, we would be primarily reliant on distributions or dividends from our subsidiaries to pay such dividends. The ability of HNS to pay us distributions or transfer funds or other assets is subject to the terms of HNS’ debt agreements which contain covenants which, among other things, limit the ability of HNS and certain of its subsidiaries to pay dividends or distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock. Such limitations could harm our ability to pay future dividends, if any. Our future success depends on our ability to retain our key employees. We are dependent on the services of HNS’ and our senior management team to remain competitive in our industry. The loss of one or more members of HNS’ or our senior management team could have an adverse effect on us until qualified replacements are found. We may not be able to quickly replace these individuals with persons of equal experience and capabilities. In addition, technological innovation depends, to a significant 26 Table of Contents extent, on the work of technically skilled employees. Competition for executive, managerial and skilled personnel in our industry is intense. We expect to face continued increases in compensation costs in order to attract and retain senior executives, managers and skilled employees, especially if the current job market improves. We may not be able to retain our existing senior management, fill new positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover or attract or retain the management and personnel necessary to develop and market our products. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of these individuals. Risks Related to the Regulation of Our Business We may face difficulties in obtaining regulatory approvals for our provision of telecommunications services, and we may face changes in regulation, each of which could adversely affect our operations. In a number of countries where we operate, the provision of telecommunications services is highly regulated. In such countries, we are required to obtain approvals from national and local authorities in connection with most of the services that we provide. In many jurisdictions, we must maintain such approvals through compliance with license conditions or payment of annual regulatory fees. While the governmental authorizations for our current business generally have not been difficult to obtain in a timely manner, the need to obtain particular authorizations in the future may delay our provision of current and new services. Moreover, the imposition by a governmental entity of conditions on our authorizations, or the failure to obtain authorizations necessary to launch and operate satellites or provide satellite service, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue and conduct our business as currently planned. Violations of laws or regulations may result in various sanctions including fines, loss of authorizations and the denial of applications for new authorizations or for the renewal of existing authorizations. Future changes to the regulations under which we operate could make it difficult for us to obtain or maintain authorizations, increase our costs or make it easier or less expensive for our competitors to compete with us. We may face difficulties in accurately assessing and collecting contributions towards the Universal Service Fund. As a provider of telecommunications in the United States, we are presently required to contribute a percentage of our revenues from telecommunications services to the Universal Service Fund to support mechanisms that subsidize the provision of services to low-income consumers, high-cost areas, schools, libraries and rural health care providers. This percentage is set each calendar quarter by the FCC. Current FCC rules permit us to pass this Universal Service Fund contribution onto our customers. Because our customer contracts often include both telecommunications services, which create such support obligations, and other goods and services, which do not, it can be difficult to determine which portion of our revenues forms the basis for this contribution and the amount that we can recover from our customers. If the FCC, which oversees the support mechanisms, or a court or other governmental entity were to determine that we computed our contribution obligation incorrectly or passed the wrong amount onto our customers, we could become subject to additional assessments, liabilities, or other financial penalties. In addition, the FCC is considering substantial changes to its Universal Service Fund contribution and distribution rules. These changes could impact our future contribution obligations and those of third parties that provide communication services to our business. Any such change to the Universal Service Fund contribution rules could adversely affect our costs of providing service to our customers. In addition, changes to the Universal Service Fund distribution rules could intensify the competition we face by offering subsidies to competing firms and/or technologies. Our international sales and operations are subject to applicable laws relating to trade, export controls and foreign corrupt practices, the violation of which could adversely affect our operations. We must comply with all applicable export control laws and regulations of the United States and other countries. United States laws and regulations applicable to us include the Arms Export Control Act, the 27 Table of Contents International Traffic in Arms Regulations (“ITAR”), the Export Administration Regulations (“EAR”) and the trade sanctions laws and regulations administered by the United States Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”). The export of certain hardware, technical data and services relating to satellites is regulated by the United States Department of State’s Directorate of Defense Trade Controls under ITAR. Other items are controlled for export by the United States Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security under the EAR. We cannot provide services to certain countries subject to United States trade sanctions unless we first obtain the necessary authorizations from OFAC. In addition, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, that, generally, bars bribes or unreasonable gifts to foreign governments or officials. See Item 1. Business—Government Regulation. Violations of these laws or regulations could result in significant sanctions including fines, more onerous compliance requirements, debarments from export privileges or loss of authorizations needed to conduct aspects of our international business. A future violation of ITAR or the other regulations enumerated above could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our foreign operations expose us to regulatory risks and restrictions not present in our domestic operations. Our operations outside the United States accounted for approximately 23.3% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010, and we expect our foreign operations to continue to represent a significant portion of our business. We have operations in Brazil, Germany, India, Indonesia, Italy, Mexico, the Russian Federation, South Africa, the United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom and China, among other nations. Over the last 20 years, we have sold products in over 100 countries. Our foreign operations involve varying degrees of risks and uncertainties inherent in doing business abroad. Such risks include: • Complications in complying with restrictions on foreign ownership and investment and limitations on repatriation—We may not be permitted to own our operations in some countries and may have to enter into partnership or joint venture relationships. Many foreign legal regimes restrict our repatriation of earnings to the United States from our subsidiaries and joint venture entities. We may also be limited in our ability to distribute or access our assets by the governing documents pertaining to such entities. In such event, we will not have access to the cash flow and assets of our joint ventures. • Difficulties in following a variety of foreign laws and regulations, such as those relating to data content retention, privacy and employee welfare—Our international operations are subject to the laws of many different jurisdictions that may differ significantly from United States law. For example, local political or intellectual property law may hold us responsible for the data that is transmitted over our network by our customers. Also, other nations have more stringent employee welfare laws that guarantee perquisites that we must offer. Compliance with these laws may lead to increased operations costs, loss of business opportunities or violations that result in fines or other penalties. • We face significant competition in our international markets—Outside North America, we have traditionally competed for VSAT hardware and services sales primarily in Europe, Brazil and India and focused only on hardware revenues in other regions. In Europe, we face intense competition which is not expected to abate in the near future. • Changes in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the United States dollar—We conduct our business and incur costs in the local currency of a number of the countries in which we operate. Accordingly, our results of operations are reported in the relevant local currency and then translated to United States dollars at the applicable currency exchange rate for inclusion in our financial statements. These fluctuations in currency exchange rates have affected, and may in the future affect, revenue, profits and cash earned on international sales. In addition, we sell our products and services and acquire supplies and components from countries that historically have been, and may continue to be, susceptible to recessions or currency devaluation. • Greater exposure to the possibility of economic instability, the disruption of operations from labor and political disturbances, expropriation or war—As we conduct operations throughout the world, we 28 Table of Contents could be subject to regional or national economic downturns or instability, labor or political disturbances or conflicts of various sizes. Any of these disruptions could detrimentally affect our sales in the affected region or country or lead to damage to, or expropriation of, our property or danger to our personnel. • Competition with large or state-owned enterprises and/or regulations that effectively limit our operations and favor local competitors—Many of the countries in which we conduct business have traditionally had state owned or state granted monopolies on telecommunications services that favor an incumbent service provider. We face competition from these favored and entrenched companies in countries that have not deregulated. The slower pace of deregulation in these countries, particularly in Asia and Latin America, has adversely affected the growth of our business in these regions. • Customer credit risks—Customer credit risks are exacerbated in foreign operations because there is often little information available about the credit histories of customers in the foreign countries in which we operate. Risks Related to HNS’ Indebtedness HNS’ high level of indebtedness could adversely affect its ability to raise additional capital to fund HNS’ operations and could limit its ability to react to changes in the economy or its industry and prevent HNS from meeting its obligations. HNS is significantly leveraged. The following table shows HNS’ level of indebtedness as of December 31, 2010 (in thousands): December 31,2010 Senior Notes(1) $590,173 Term Loan Facility 115,000 COFACE Guaranteed Facility 27,403 VSAT hardware financing 6,323 Revolving bank borrowings 967 Capital lease and other 6,995 Total debt $ 746,861 (1) Includes 2006 Senior Notes and 2009 Senior Notes. HNS’ substantial degree of leverage could have important consequences, including the following: • it may limit HNS’ ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; • a substantial portion of HNS’ cash flows from operations will be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on its indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes, including its operations, capital expenditures, investments in new technologies and future business opportunities; • the debt service requirements of HNS’ other indebtedness could make it more difficult for it to satisfy its financial obligations; • HNS’ Revolving Credit Facility is at a variable rate of interest, exposing HNS to the risk of increased interest rates; • it may limit HNS’ ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place HNS at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt or more financial resources; and • HNS may be vulnerable in a downturn in general economic condition or in its business, or HNS may be unable to carry out capital spending that is important to its growth. 29 Table of Contents HNS may not be able to generate cash to meet its debt service needs or to fund its operations. HNS’ ability to make payments on or to refinance its indebtedness and to fund its operations will depend on HNS’ ability to generate cash in the future, which is subject in part to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond its control. HNS may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to HNS under its Revolving Credit Facility or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable it to service its indebtedness or to fund its operations or other liquidity needs. If HNS is unable to generate sufficient cash, it will be forced to take actions such as revising or delaying its strategic plans, reducing or delaying capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing its debt or seeking additional equity capital. HNS may not be able to affect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. Each of its Revolving Credit Facility, Term Loan Facility, COFACE Guaranteed Facility and the indentures governing the Senior Notes restrict its ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from such dispositions. Therefore, we may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to use those proceeds to meet any debt service obligations when due. If HNS cannot make scheduled payments on its debt, HNS will be in default and, as a result: • its debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable; • the lenders under its Revolving Credit Facility could terminate their commitments to loan HNS money and foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings; and • we could lose our equity investment in HNS, which equity interests have been pledged by us to the lenders under HNS’ Revolving Credit Facility. Despite current indebtedness levels, subject to conditions in the Merger Agreement, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks described above. The terms of each of the Merger Agreement, our Revolving Credit Facility, Term Loan Facility, COFACE Guaranteed Facility and the indentures governing the Senior Notes contain restrictions on our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to incur additional debt. These restrictions are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions and the amount of indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. Any incurrence of additional indebtedness could further exacerbate the risks described above. Covenants in HNS’ debt agreements and the Merger Agreement restrict our business in many ways. HNS’ Revolving Credit Facility, Term Loan Facility, COFACE Guaranteed Facility and the indentures governing the Senior Notes contain various covenants that limit HNS’ ability and/or its restricted subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness; • issue redeemable stock and preferred stock; • repurchase capital stock; • make other restricted payments including, without limitation, paying dividends and making investments; • redeem debt that is junior in right of payment to the Senior Notes; • create liens without securing the Senior Notes; • sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries; • enter into agreements that restrict dividends from its subsidiaries; • merge, consolidate and sell, or otherwise dispose of substantially all of its assets; 30 Table of Contents • enter into transactions with affiliates; • guarantee indebtedness; and • enter into new lines of business; In addition, HNS’ COFACE Guaranteed Facility also requires that HNS comply with certain maintenance covenants. Under the Merger Agreement, we have agreed to various covenants that affect our business, including, among others, covenants (i) to use commercially reasonable efforts to conduct its business in the ordinary course consistent with past practice during the interim period between the execution of the Merger Agreement and completion of the Merger and (ii) not to engage in certain kinds of transactions during this interim period, including the incurrence of indebtedness. A breach of any of the covenants under the Revolving Credit Facility, the Term Loan Facility, the indentures governing the Senior Notes, or the COFACE Guaranteed Facility could result in a default under HNS’ Revolving Credit Facility, the Term Loan Facility, the Senior Notes, and the COFACE Guaranteed Facility. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under HNS’ Revolving Credit Facility, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under its Revolving Credit Facility to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If HNS is unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under HNS’ Revolving Credit Facility could proceed against the collateral that secures that indebtedness. HNS has pledged a significant portion of its assets as collateral under its Revolving Credit Facility. If the lenders under HNS’ Revolving Credit Facility accelerate the repayment of borrowings, HNS may not have sufficient assets to repay its Revolving Credit Facility and its other indebtedness. Risks Related to the Merger The Merger is subject to satisfaction or waiver of certain customary conditions. The completion of the Merger is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain customary conditions, including (i) the receipt of certain government regulatory approvals, including approval by the FCC, the expiration or termination of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, and the receipt of the consents required under certain export control laws, (ii) the absence of any order or injunction by a court of competent jurisdiction preventing the consummation of the Merger, and the absence of any action taken, or any law enacted, entered, enforced or made applicable to the Merger, by any governmental entity that makes the consummation of the Merger illegal or otherwise restrains, enjoins or prohibits the Merger, (iii) the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the parties and compliance by the parties with their respective obligations under the Merger Agreement and (iv) holders of shares of our common stock representing in excess of 25% of our outstanding shares of common stock shall not have exercised (or if exercised, shall not have withdrawn prior to the commencement of the marketing period for the financing of the pending transaction) rights of dissent in connection with the Merger. We cannot assure you that the Merger contemplated by the Merger Agreement will be consummated or that it will close in a timely manner or, if not consummated, that we will enter into a comparable or superior transaction with another party. The Merger may not be completed if sufficient financing is not funded. EchoStar and Satellite Services have obtained an aggregate financing commitment of $1.0 billion in senior secured bridge financing and $800 million in senior unsecured bridge financing in connection with financing the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, including the payment of the cash merger consideration and the repayment of our indebtedness under the Revolving Credit Facility, the Term Loan Facility, the Senior Notes and, if lender consents are not obtained, the COFACE Guaranteed Facility. The funding under such commitment is subject to conditions, including conditions that do not relate directly to the Merger Agreement. We cannot assure you that the committed amount will be sufficient to complete the Merger. Those amounts might be insufficient if, among other things, we, EchoStar or Satellite Services have substantially less cash 31 Table of Contents on hand or EchoStar and Satellite Services have substantially less net proceeds from the debt financings than we currently expect. Although obtaining the debt financing is not a condition to the completion of the Merger, the failure of EchoStar and Satellite Services to obtain sufficient financing is likely to result in the failure of the Merger to be completed in a timely manner, if at all. Our future business and financial position may be adversely affected if the Merger is not completed. If the Merger Agreement is terminated and the Merger is not consummated, we will have incurred substantial expenses without realizing the expected benefits of the Merger. In addition, we may also be subject to additional risks including, without limitation: • substantial costs related to the Merger, such as legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, that must be paid regardless of whether the Merger is completed; • potential disruption to the current business plan and our operating activities and distraction of our workforce and management team; and • potential loss of key customers and suppliers as a result of any negative reaction to the Merger, including as result of the uncertainty concerning our operations while the Merger is pending and after the Merger is closed. The Merger creates unique risks in the time leading up to closing, and there are also risks of completing the conditions to closing. The Merger Agreement generally requires us to operate our business in the ordinary course pending consummation of the proposed combination, but restricts us, without EchoStar’s consent, from taking certain specified actions until the Merger is complete or the Merger Agreement is terminated. Further, the pending Merger increases our risk of loss of key employees due to, among other things, uncertainty concerning the post-Merger operation of the Company. Until all conditions to the Merger are satisfied and the related debt financing is ready to be funded, we cannot be certain that the Merger will close. We will incur significant transaction costs relating to the proposed Merger, whether or not the proposed Merger is completed. Additionally, matters relating to the Merger (including integration planning) may require substantial commitments of time and resources, which could otherwise have been devoted to other beneficial opportunities and there may be potential difficulties in employee retention as a result of the Merger. Any loss of business opportunities or key personnel could have an adverse impact on future business, and, as a result, result in lower future sales and earnings. If we are unable to complete our proposed Merger with EchoStar, our stock price could suffer. The termination of the Merger Agreement would likely result in a decline in our stock price to the extent that our stock price reflects a market assumption that we will complete the Merger and our stockholders will receive the per share merger consideration specified in the Merger Agreement. Since announcing the proposed Merger, class action lawsuits have been filed against the Company and its directors. The outcome or settlement of these claims may have an adverse effect upon our results of operation. Since the announcement of the proposed Merger, putative class action lawsuits seeking to enjoin the Merger, among other things, have been filed on behalf of our stockholders, two in the Delaware Court of Chancery and two in the Circuit Court for Montgomery County, Maryland. Descriptions of these lawsuits, are set forth in Item 3. Legal Proceedings of this Report and are incorporated herein by reference. The cost of defending such law suits and paying any judgment or settlement in connection therewith could have an adverse impact on our financial results. 32 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Separation from LightSquared, Inc. (“LightSquared,” formerly SkyTerra Communications, Inc.) We may incur significant liability to LightSquared pursuant to the provisions of the tax sharing agreement. The tax sharing agreement governs the allocation between us and LightSquared of tax liabilities and related tax matters, such as the preparation and filing of tax returns and tax contests, for all taxable periods ended on or before February 21, 2006. We will generally be responsible for, and indemnify LightSquared and its subsidiaries against, all tax liabilities imposed on or attributable to: • the Company and any of its subsidiaries relating to all taxable periods; and • LightSquared and any of its subsidiaries for all taxable periods or portions thereof ending on or prior to a change of control of LightSquared. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock There may be a limited public market for our common stock and our stock price may experience volatility. The stock market from time to time experiences extreme price and volume fluctuations that are often unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Changes in earnings estimates by analysts, if any, and economic and other external factors may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock. Fluctuations or decreases in the trading price of our common stock may adversely affect the liquidity of the trading market for our common stock. Fluctuations in our results of operations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: • risks and uncertainties affecting the current and proposed business of HNS and the broadband satellite industry; • increased competition in the broadband satellite industry; • competition in the North America and International Broadband segments and the Telecom Systems segment; and • general economic conditions. As a result of these possible fluctuations, period-to-period comparisons of our financial results may not be reliable indicators of future performance. Future sales of our shares could depress the market price of our common stock. We may, in the future, sell additional shares of our common stock to raise capital, which could result in substantial dilution and a decrease in the market price of our common stock. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. At December 31, 2010, we had 21,834,787 shares of our common stock outstanding, all of which are freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act except for any such shares held at any time by any of our “affiliates,” as such term is defined under Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act. In addition, all of the shares of common stock issued or reserved for issuance or issuable upon the exercise of stock options under our 2006 Equity and Incentive Plan will be available for sale in the open market, unless such shares of common stock are subject to vesting restrictions. We may have to issue additional shares of our common stock to satisfy the Class B Units and bonus units of HNS, which may, to the extent vested, be exchanged for our common stock. 33 Table of Contents We do not plan to pay dividends on our common stock and consequently, the only opportunity to achieve a return on an investment in our common stock is if the price of our common stock appreciates. We do not plan to declare dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future and do not plan to pay dividends on our common stock. In addition, the agreements governing HNS’ outstanding indebtedness and Merger Agreement limit our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. The only opportunity to achieve a positive return on an investment in our common stock prior to the completion of the Merger for the foreseeable future may be if the market price of our common stock appreciates. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent our acquisition by a third party. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain several provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions include, among other things, advance notice for raising business or making nominations at meetings of stockholders and “blank check” preferred stock. Blank check preferred stock enables our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to designate and issue additional series of preferred stock with such special dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights, including the right to issue convertible securities with no limitations on conversion, as our board of directors may determine, including rights to dividends and proceeds in a liquidation that are senior to the common stock. In addition, our board may issue additional shares of common stock without any further vote or action by our common stockholders, which would have the effect of diluting common stockholders. These provisions may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting common stock. In addition, the Delaware General Corporation Law contains provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have no unresolved comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission. 34 Table of Contents 