Item 1A. Risk Factors Certain information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (the “Report”), including information regarding future financial performance and plans, expectations, and objectives of management, constitute 23 Table of Contents forward-looking information within the meaning of Canadian securities laws and forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We refer to all of these as forward-looking statements. A forward-looking statement is not a guarantee of the occurrence of future events or circumstances, and such future events or circumstances may not occur. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They often include words such as “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “intends,” “plans,” “seeks,” “outlook,” “forecast” or words of similar meaning, or future or conditional verbs, such as “will,” “should,” “could” or “may.” Examples of forward-looking statements that may be contained in our public disclosure from time to time include, but are not limited to, statements concerning management’s expectations relating to possible or assumed future results, our strategic goals and our priorities, and the economic and business outlook for us, for each of our business segments, and for the economy generally. The forward-looking statements contained in this Report are based on currently available information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed below, that could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations (i.e., the “risk factors”). Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. Forward-looking information and statements are based on a number of assumptions which may prove to be incorrect, including, but not limited to, assumptions about: the absence of a material increase in competition within the quick service restaurant segment of the food service industry; the absence of an adverse event or condition that damages our strong brand position and reputation; continuing positive working relationships with the majority of the Company’s restaurant owners; there being no significant change in the Company’s ability to comply with current or future regulatory requirements; the absence of any material adverse effects arising as a result of litigation; and general worldwide economic conditions. We are presenting this information for the purpose of informing you of management’s current expectations regarding these matters, and this information may not be appropriate for other purposes. Many of the factors that could determine our future performance are beyond our ability to control or predict. Investors should carefully consider our risk factors and the other information set forth in this Report and are further cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements contained in this Report, which speak only as of the date of this Report. The events and uncertainties outlined in the risk factors, as well as other events and uncertainties not set forth below, could cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectation(s) included in the forward-looking statement, and if significant, could materially affect the Company’s business, sales revenue, stock price, financial condition, and/or future results, including, but not limited to, causing the Company to (i) close restaurants, (ii) fail to realize our same-store sales, which are critical to achieving our operating income and other financial targets, (iii) fail to meet the expectations of our securities analysts or investors, or otherwise fail to perform as expected, (iv) have insufficient cash to engage in or fund expansion activities, dividends, or share repurchase programs, or (v) increase costs, corporately or at restaurant level, which may result in increased restaurant-level pricing, which, in turn, may result in decreased customer demand for our products resulting in lower sales, revenue, and earnings. We assume no obligation to update or alter any forward-looking statements after they are made, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by applicable law. Throughout these risk factors, the words “include,” “including” or words of similar effect mean “include, without limitation” or “including, without limitation,” as applicable. Our growth strategy and other important strategic initiatives may not be successful and may expose us to additional risk. Our growth strategy to a large extent depends on our ability to increase the number of Tim Hortons restaurants through internal growth and potentially through strategic initiatives (such as acquisitions, joint ventures, and alternative business models, such as self-serve kiosks and co-branding) and increased emphasis (especially outside Canada) on non-standard restaurant development and other initiatives. However, we may not be able to achieve our growth objectives, new restaurants may not be profitable, and strategic initiatives may not be successful and may expose us to various risks. 24 Table of Contents The addition of a number of new restaurants in a market may negatively impact the same-store sales growth and profitability of restaurants already existing in the market. If our new restaurants are not profitable or if new restaurants negatively affect the profitability of existing restaurants, we may be limited or unable to carry out our business model of franchising the new or existing restaurants, or we may be delayed in doing so, as we could have difficulty finding qualified restaurant owners willing to participate in our expansion or we may desire that the restaurant reach minimum profitability levels before franchising the restaurant. This could limit our ability to expand or make it harder for us to find qualified restaurant owners, either of which would likely hurt revenue growth and operating results. We may also need to provide relief and support programs for our restaurant owners in developing markets as well as expand our financing support programs or extend financing on more generous terms than would be available from third parties, either of which could increase our costs and thus decrease net income. Alternatively, if we have interested restaurant owners, we may offer the restaurant to a restaurant owner on an operator or other agreement, which may also result in an increase in restaurant owner relief and support costs. Initially, after conversion, we generally provided additional relief to the operator, and we have been required to consolidate some of these restaurants in accordance with variable interest entity accounting rules for consolidations. We may also enter markets where our brand is not well known and where we have little or no operating experience, although we will do this to a lesser extent in 2011. New markets may have different competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns than our existing markets; as a result, new restaurants in those markets may be less successful than restaurants in existing markets. When we enter new regions and markets, we will need to build brand awareness in those markets through advertising and promotional activity, and those activities may not promote our brand as effectively as intended, if at all. For example, our advertising expenditures in the U.S., particularly with respect to television advertising, do not yield the desired leverage across all marketing areas because our regional markets do not overlap to a significant degree, and we have not achieved significant market penetration in all regions. Restaurants opened in new markets may also have lower average restaurant sales than restaurants opened in existing markets, and may have higher construction, occupancy, and operating costs than restaurants in existing markets. Sales at restaurants opened in new markets may take longer to reach expected sales and profit levels, and may never do so, thereby affecting our overall financial condition. Our failure to successfully implement growth and various other business strategies and initiatives related to international development may have a negative impact on the overall operation of our business and may result in increased costs or inefficiencies that we cannot currently anticipate. From time to time, we may rationalize and close underperforming restaurants in order to improve overall profitability. Such closures, however, may be accompanied by impairment charges and/or valuation allowances that may have a negative impact on our earnings. We may also deliberately slow the development of new restaurants in some markets, depending on various factors, including the sales growth of existing restaurants in such markets. Same-store sales growth is a milestone we monitor, and, among other things, if sales growth falls below our expectations for a prolonged period of time, if we have significant negative cash flows in a market for several years, or if we close restaurants out of the ordinary course, we may be forced to impair assets in affected markets, which could have a negative effect on our earnings. The success of any restaurant depends in substantial part on its location. There can be no assurance that current locations will continue to be attractive as demographic patterns change. Neighbourhood or economic conditions where restaurants are located could decline in the future, thus resulting in potentially reduced sales in those locations. If we cannot obtain desirable locations for our restaurants at reasonable prices, our ability to execute our growth strategy will be adversely affected. We also intend to continue to evaluate potential mergers, acquisitions, joint venture investments, alliances, vertical integration opportunities and divestitures, which are subject to many of the same risks that also affect new restaurant development. In addition, these transactions involve various other financial and tax, managerial 25 Table of Contents and operational risks, including accurately assessing the value, future growth potential, strengths, weaknesses, contingent and other liabilities and potential profitability of acquisition candidates; the potential loss of key personnel of an acquired business; the Company’s ability to achieve projected economic and operating synergies; difficulties successfully integrating, operating, maintaining and managing newly acquired operations or employees; difficulties maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; the possibility the Company could incur impairment charges if an acquired business performs below expectations; unanticipated changes in business and economic conditions affecting acquired business; ramp-up costs, whether anticipated or not; the potential for the unauthorized use of the Company’s trademarks and brand name by third parties; the possibility of a breach of contract or spoliation of the business relationship with a third party; the potential negative effects such transactions may have on the Company’s relationship with restaurant owners and existing business relationships with suppliers; the potential exposure to restaurant owners and others arising from the Company’s reliance on and dissemination of information provided by third parties; and diversion of management’s and restaurant owners’ attention from the demands of the existing business. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to complete the desirable transactions, for reasons including restrictive covenants in debt instruments or other agreements with third parties, or a failure to secure financing if there was a tight credit market. Strategic alliances have been and will continue to be an integral part of our strategic plan to “grow in ways we have not grown before.” There can be no assurance that: significant value will be recognized through such strategic alliances; we will be able to maintain our existing strategic alliances; or, we will be able to enter into new strategic relationships in the future. While we believe we could ultimately take action to terminate any alliances that prove to be unsuccessful, we may not be able to identify problems and take action quickly enough and, as a result, our brand image and reputation may suffer, or we may suffer increased liabilities, costs and other financial burdens. Entry into and the subsequent unwinding of strategic alliances may expose us to additional risks which may adversely affect our brand and business and decrease our revenue and growth prospects. We developed and began implementing various strategic plans and initiatives commencing in 2010. Our financial outlook and long-range aspirational EPS targets through the end of 2013, as previously announced, are based on the successful implementation, execution, and customer acceptance of such plans and initiatives. These strategic plans are also designed to improve our results of operations and drive long-term shareholder value. There can be no assurance that we will be able to implement our strategic plans and initiatives or that such plans and initiatives will yield the expected results, either of which could cause us to fall short of achievement of our financial objectives and long-range aspirational goals. Our success depends substantially on the value of the Tim Hortons brand and our Canadian segment performance. Our success is dependent to a large part upon our ability to maintain and enhance the value of our brand, our customers’ connection to and perception of our brand, and a positive relationship with our restaurant owners. Brand value can be severely damaged even by isolated incidents, particularly if the incidents receive considerable negative publicity or result in litigation. Some of these incidents may relate to the way we manage our relationship with our restaurant owners, our growth strategies, our relationships with third parties with whom we enter into strategic alliances, our development efforts in domestic and foreign markets, land use and site and building development for our restaurants (including equipment, environment, and health and safety issues), or the ordinary course of our or our restaurant owners’ business. Other incidents may arise from events that are or may be beyond our ability to control and may damage our brand, such as: actions taken (or not taken) by one or more restaurant owners or their employees relating to health, safety, welfare, labour matters, or otherwise; litigation and claims; security breaches or other fraudulent activities associated with our electronic payment systems; illegal activity targeted at us; and negative incidents occurring at or affecting our strategic business partners, affiliates, or corporate social responsibility programs. Our brand could also be damaged by falsified claims or the quality of products from vertically integrated manufacturing facilities and potentially negative publicity from various sources, including social media sites on a variety of topics and issues, whether true or not, which are 26 Table of Contents beyond our control. Consumer demand for our products and our brand value could diminish significantly if any such incidents or other matters erode consumer confidence in us or our products, which would likely result in lower sales and, ultimately, lower earnings and profits. In addition, the Tim Hortons brand is synonymous with our ability to deliver quality food products at value prices. If we are unable to maintain in Canada, or unable to maintain and/or achieve in other markets, an appropriate price to value relationship for our products in the minds of consumers, our ability, by and through our restaurant owners and independently, to increase or maintain same-store sales may be affected. Our ability to maintain or achieve the appropriate price to value relationship also may be affected by discounting or other promotional activity of competitors, which can be extremely aggressive. Our financial performance is highly dependent on our Canadian operating segment, which accounted for approximately 83.4% of our consolidated revenues, and all our profit, in 2010. Any substantial or sustained decline in our Canadian business would materially and adversely affect our financial performance. The quick service restaurant segment is highly competitive, and competition could lower our revenues, margins, and market share. The quick service restaurant segment of the food service industry is intensely competitive. Tim Hortons restaurants compete with international, regional, and local organizations primarily through the quality, variety, and value perception of food products offered. Other key competitive factors include: the number and location of restaurants; quality and speed of service; attractiveness of facilities; effectiveness and magnitude of advertising, marketing, promotional, and operational programs; price; changing demographic patterns and trends; changing consumer preferences and spending patterns, including weaker consumer spending in difficult economic times, or a desire for a more diversified menu; changing health or dietary preferences; and, perceptions and new product development. Our major competitors continue to engage in discounting, free sampling and other promotional activities. In addition, some of our competitors, particularly in the U.S., have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do, including larger marketing budgets and greater leverage from marketing spend, which may provide them with a competitive advantage. Also, Tim Hortons restaurants compete within the food service industry and the quick service restaurant segment not only for customers but also for management and hourly employees, suitable real estate sites, and qualified restaurant owners. If we are unable to maintain our competitive position, we could experience lower demand for products, downward pressure on prices, reduced margins, an inability to take advantage of new business opportunities, the loss of market share, and the inability to attract qualified restaurant owners. Increases in the cost of commodities could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. We are exposed to price volatility in connection with certain key commodities that we purchase in the ordinary course of business such as coffee, wheat, edible oil and sugar, which can impact revenues, costs and margins. Although we monitor our exposure to commodity prices and our forward hedging program (of varied duration, depending upon the type of underlying commodity) partially mitigates the negative impact of any costs increases, price volatility for commodities we purchase has increased due to conditions beyond our control, including recent economic conditions, currency fluctuations, availability of supply, weather conditions and consumer demand. Increases and decreases in commodity costs are largely passed through to restaurant owners, and we and our restaurant owners have some ability to increase product pricing to offset a rise in commodity prices, subject to restaurant owner and customer acceptance, respectively. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we may not be able to, or we may choose not to, as we did in 2009 with respect to certain products, pass along all price increases to our restaurant owners. As a result, commodity cost increases could have a more significant effect on our business and results of operations than if we had passed along all increases to our restaurant owners. Price fluctuations may also impact margins as many of these commodities are typically priced based on a fixed-dollar mark-up. A number of commodities have recently experienced elevated spot market prices relative to historic prices. Although we have secured commitments for most of our key commodities through year-end 2011 27 Table of Contents in anticipation of continued high prices in 2011, these are at higher prices than our previous commitments. In addition, if further escalation in prices continues, we may be forced to purchase commodities at higher prices at the end of the respective terms of our current commitments. See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Commodity Risk. Food safety and health concerns may have an adverse effect on our business. Incidents or reports, whether true or not, of food-borne illness (such as e-coli, listeria, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, hepatitis A or salmonella); injuries caused by or claims of food tampering, employee hygiene and cleanliness failures or impropriety at Tim Hortons or other quick service restaurants unrelated to Tim Hortons; and, the health aspects of consuming our products, could result in negative publicity, damage our brand value, and potentially lead to product liability or other claims. Any decrease in customer traffic or temporary closure of any of our restaurants as a result of such incidents or negative publicity may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our distribution operations and supply chain are subject to pressures and risks, many of which are outside our control that could reduce the profitability of our operations. Our distribution operations and supply chain may be impacted by various factors, some of which are beyond our control, that could injure our brand and negatively affect our results of operations and our ability to generate expected earnings and/or increase costs, including: • transportation and/or shipping costs, including but not limited to energy and fuel costs (and/or fuel shortages) for our fleet of trucks and trailers or increased costs from third-party transportation companies that make deliveries to system restaurants from our five distribution centres; • inclement weather, which could affect the cost and timely delivery of products and supplies to us and to our restaurant owners; • increased food and other supply costs; • the risks of having a single source of supply for certain of our food products, including certain par-baked goods, iced cappuccinos, and other popular food products; • shortages or interruptions in the availability or supply of perishable food products and/or their ingredients, which could affect the availability, quality, and cost of such food products and ingredients, as well as other factors that could affect the quality of products we supply; • potential negative impacts on our relationship with our restaurant owners associated with the increase of required purchases or prices of products purchased from our distribution business; and • political, physical, environmental, labour, or technological disruptions in our own or our suppliers’ manufacturing and/or warehouse plants, facilities, or equipment. See additional disclosure under “Sources and Availability of Raw Materials” in Item 1 of this Report that is incorporated in this section by reference. In the U.S., because we do not provide distribution services to our U.S. restaurant owners, our U.S. restaurant owners may not receive the same level of service and reliability as we are able to provide through our distribution business for our Canadian restaurant owners. 28 Table of Contents Our earnings and business growth strategy depends in large part on the success of our restaurant owners; actions taken by our restaurant owners and changes in franchise laws and regulations may harm our business. A substantial portion of our earnings come from royalties and other amounts paid by restaurant owners, who operated 99.5% of the Tim Hortons restaurants as of January 2, 2011. Our restaurant owners are independent contractors and, as a result, the quality of their operations may be diminished by factors beyond our control. Some restaurant owners may not successfully operate restaurants in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements and may not train qualified managers and other restaurant personnel. Any operational shortcoming of a franchise restaurant is likely to be attributed by consumers to our entire system, thus damaging our brand reputation and potentially affecting revenues and profitability. Our principal competitors that have a significantly higher percentage of company-operated restaurants than we do may have greater control over their respective restaurant systems and have greater flexibility to implement operational initiatives and business strategies. Our success will also continue to depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified restaurant owners. Since we receive revenues in the form of rents, royalties, and franchise fees from our restaurant owners, our revenues and profits would decline and our brand reputation could also be harmed if a significant number of restaurant owners were to: experience operational failures, including health and safety exposures; experience financial difficulty; be unwilling or unable to pay us for food and supplies or for royalties, rent or other fees; fail to enter into renewals of franchise or license agreements; or experience any labour shortages or significant increases in labour or other costs of running their businesses. Our advertising levies may also be at risk which could impact the magnitude and extent of our marketing initiatives. In addition, the ability of restaurant owners to finance the equipment and renovation costs or improvements and additions to existing restaurants, and our acquisition of restaurants from or sale of restaurants to restaurant owners, are affected by economic conditions, including interest rates and the cost and availability of borrowed funds. A weakening in restaurant owner financial stability would have a negative impact on our business and may cause us to finance such purchases for our restaurant owners or, if we elect not to do so or we are unable to do so, our ability to grow our business may be adversely impacted. Although we generally enjoy a positive working relationship with the vast majority of our restaurant owners, active and/or potential disputes with restaurant owners could damage our brand reputation and/or our relationships with the broader restaurant owner group. See also, risk factor “Our business activities subject us to litigation risk that could affect us adversely by subjecting us to significant money damages and other remedies or by increasing our litigation expense” below. Our business activities subject us to litigation risk that could affect us adversely by subjecting us to significant monetary damages and other remedies or by increasing our litigation expense. From time to time, we are subject to claims incidental to our business, such as illness or injury relating to food quality or food handling. In addition, class action lawsuits have been filed in the past, and may continue to be filed, against quick service restaurants alleging, among other things, that quick service restaurants have failed to disclose the health risks associated with their products or that certain food products contribute to obesity. These types of claims could harm our brand reputation, making it more difficult to attract and retain qualified restaurant owners and grow the business. We may also be subject to claims from employees, customers, and others relating to health and safety risks and conditions of our restaurants associated with design, construction, site location and development, indoor or airborne contaminants and/or certain equipment utilized in operations. In addition, from time to time, we face claims from: our employees relating to employment or labour matters, including potentially class action suits, regarding wages, discrimination, unfair or unequal treatment, harassment, wrongful termination, or overtime compensation; our restaurant owners and/or operators regarding their profitability (which is a present claim against us), wrongful termination of their franchise or operating (license) agreement, as the case may be, or other restaurant owner relationship matters; taxation authorities regarding certain tax disputes; or, other stakeholders or business partners. We are also exposed to a wide variety of falsified claims due to our size and brand recognition. All of these types of matters have the potential to unduly distract 29 Table of Contents management attention and increase costs, including costs associated with defending such claims. Any negative publicity resulting from these claims may adversely affect our reputation. Our current exposure with respect to legal matters pending against us could change if determinations by judges and other finders of fact are not in accordance with management’s evaluation of the claims. Should management’s evaluation prove incorrect, our exposure could exceed expectations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If successful, any such claims could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and financial results. With respect to restaurant owner litigation, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings of this Annual Report. Our business is subject to various laws and regulations and changes in such laws and regulations and/or failure to comply with existing or future laws and regulations, or our planning initiatives related to such laws and regulations, could adversely affect us and our shareholders and expose us to litigation, damage our brand reputation or lower profits. We and our restaurant owners are subject to various international, federal, state, provincial and local laws, treaties and regulations affecting our and their businesses. These laws and regulations include those regarding or relating to: zoning, land use (including the development and/or operation of drive-thru windows), and traffic; health, food, sanitation and safety; privacy; immigration and labour laws, including significant increases in minimum wage requirements that were implemented in certain provinces in Canada in 2010 and others that are planned for certain other provinces in 2011, that will substantially increase our and our restaurant owners’ labour costs in those provinces; laws preventing discrimination and harassment in the workplace and providing certain civil rights to individuals with disabilities, laws affecting the design of facilities (such as the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and similar Canadian legislation); tax laws affecting our restaurant owners’ business; environmental matters; product safety; nutritional disclosure and regulations regarding the nutritional content, including menu labeling; advertising and marketing; record keeping and document retention procedures; and new and/or additional franchise legislation. We are also subject to applicable accounting and reporting requirements and regulations, including those imposed by Canadian and U.S. securities regulatory authorities, the NYSE and the TSX. The complexity of the regulatory environment in which we operate and the related cost of compliance are both increasing due to additional legal and regulatory requirements. With respect to environmental laws and regulations, our operations are governed and impacted by laws, regulations or limitations regarding our management, handling and/or disposal of water resources, air resources, toxic substances, solid waste and other environmental matters, including: • regulations regarding drive-thrus, including banning or imposing idling restrictions in drive-thrus, which limit our ability to develop restaurants with drive-thrus in certain locations; local building codes, which may require more expensive building materials or restaurant types as well as programs requiring greater use of recyclable materials that can be processed by the waste management industry and/or required contributions to residential blue box programs in Ontario and other provinces in Canada, or similar programs in the U.S. that result in increased costs because certain municipalities do not accept our recyclable packaging; and • regulations relating to the discharge, storage, handling, release and/or disposal of hazardous or toxic substances, particularly with respect to: certain of our operations (e.g., distribution and manufacturing); restaurant locations that were formerly gas stations or that are adjacent to gas stations; and, septic systems with insufficient capacity. In addition, third parties may make claims against owners or operators of properties for personal injuries or property damage associated with releases of hazardous or toxic substances. See additional disclosure under “Environmental Matters” in Item 1 of this Report that is incorporated into this section by reference. As “sustainability” issues become more prevalent and accepted, there may be increased governmental, shareholder, and other stakeholder awareness and sentiment for more regulation as well as voluntarily adopted programs relating to reduction and mitigation of environmental impacts. There is a possibility that, when and if enacted, the final form of such legislation or any voluntary actions taken by us in this regard would impose 30 Table of Contents stricter requirements or alternative modes of conducting business, which could lead to the need for significant capital expenditures in order to meet those requirements and/or higher ongoing compliance and operating costs. Our participation in or implementation of, or our decision not to participate in or implement, certain types of programs also may have an adverse impact on our brand due to potentially negative publicity or negative perception of stakeholders regarding our business practices and lack of willingness to demonstrate environmental leadership. Such injury to our brand and reputation may, in turn, also reduce revenues and profits. See also our disclosure under “Sustainability and Responsibility” in Item 1 of this Report regarding our planned activities with respect to sustainability and corporate responsibility initiatives. We are reviewing a comprehensive U.S. health care reform law regarding government-mandated health benefits that was enacted in 2010 as well as the new U.S. food safety modernization law that was enacted in January 2011. We cannot currently determine with certainty the financial and operational impact that the new laws will have on us, our restaurant owners and/or our third-party suppliers and distributors. Existing, new, or future changes in tax laws, regulations, and treaties, or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, may adversely impact: our anticipated effective tax rate, tax liabilities and/or reserves; the benefits that we expected to achieve from certain of our completed or planned public or internal corporate reorganizations; ongoing tax disputes, realization of our tax assets; disclosure of tax-related matters; and/or the expansion of our business into new territories through our strategic initiatives, joint ventures, or other types of programs, projects or activities. In addition, incremental sales taxes at the federal, provincial, state or local level on products sold by our restaurants resulting from, without limitation, increased sales tax rates, changes to the taxability of our products sold at retail, changes to tax rules applicable to our restaurants, introduction of new tax systems such as value-added taxes and the harmonization of federal and provincial sales tax systems in Canada, may all result in increased sales taxes collected at retail. Any of these changes, if enacted, could have a material adverse impact on us. It is not possible for us to predict what laws or regulations will be enacted in the future, how existing or future laws and regulations will be administered or interpreted. Changes in our business operations may be negatively impacted by current laws or amended laws resulting in a material adverse impact to us. Compliance with these laws and regulations and planning initiatives undertaken in connection with such laws and regulation could increase the cost of doing business and reduce operational efficiencies and, depending upon the nature of our and our restaurant owners’ responsive actions to or planning in connection with such laws, regulations, and other matters, could damage our reputation. Increases in costs impact our profitability and the profitability of our restaurant owners. Failure to comply with such laws or regulations on a timely basis may lead to civil and criminal liability, cancellation of license, fines, and other corrective action, which could adversely affect our future financial results and have an adverse impact on our brand due to potentially negative publicity regarding our business practices and result in decreased revenues and profits. Similarly, certain international markets where we may seek to conduct our business in the future may pose legal and business challenges due to substantial uncertainty regarding laws and regulation in such jurisdictions. See additional disclosure under “Government Regulations and Affairs” in Item 1 of this Report that is incorporated into this section by reference. Tax regulatory authorities may disagree with our positions and conclusions regarding certain tax attributes and treatment, including relating to certain of our corporate reorganizations, resulting in unanticipated costs or non-realization of expected benefits. A taxation authority may disagree with certain views of the Company, including, for example, the allocation of profits by tax jurisdiction, and may take the position that material income tax liabilities, interests, penalties or amounts are payable by us, in which case, we expect that we would contest such assessment. Contesting such an assessment may be lengthy and costly and if we were unsuccessful in disputing the assessment, the implications could be materially adverse to us and affect our anticipated effective tax rate or operating income, where applicable. 31 Table of Contents Based on the provisions of the Income Tax Act (Canada), the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations promulgated thereunder at the time of completing certain of our public or internal company corporate reorganizations (the “Reorganizations”), we anticipated that the Reorganizations would not result in any ongoing material Canadian and/or U.S. federal income tax liabilities to us. However, there can be no assurance that Canada Revenue Agency (the “CRA”) and/or the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) will agree with our interpretation of the tax aspects of the Reorganizations or any related matters associated therewith. The CRA or the IRS may disagree with our view and take the position that material Canadian or U.S. federal income tax liabilities, interest and penalties, respectively, are payable as a result of the Reorganizations. If we are unsuccessful in disputing the CRA’s or the IRS’ assertions, we may not be in a position to take advantage of the effective tax rates and the level of benefits that we anticipated to achieve as a result of the Reorganizations and the implications could be materially adverse to us. Even if we are successful in maintaining our positions, we may incur significant expense in contesting positions asserted or claims made by tax authorities. Similarly, other costs or difficulties related to the Reorganizations and related transactions, which could be greater than expected, could also affect our projected results, future operations, and financial condition. We are party to a tax sharing agreement with Wendy’s, which sets forth the principles and responsibilities of Wendy’s and the Company regarding the allocation of taxes, audits and other tax matters relating to periods when we were part of the same U.S. federal consolidated or state and local combined tax filing group. Either we or Wendy’s may be required to reimburse the other party for the use of tax attributes while we filed U.S. consolidated or state and local combined returns, as a result of audits or similar proceedings giving rise to “adjustments” to previously filed returns, in accordance with the terms of the agreement. As several years remain open to review and adjustment by taxation authorities, payments may be made by one party to the other for the use of the other party’s tax attributes. Our new international operations will be subject to various factors of uncertainty and there is no assurance that international operations will be profitable. We have entered into a master license agreement with a licensee for the development of Tim Hortons restaurants in the Gulf Cooperation Council. The licensee is committed to open and operate approximately five restaurant locations in 2011. The implementation of our international strategic plan may require considerable or dedicated management time as well as start-up expenses for market development before any significant revenues and earnings are generated. Expansion into new international markets carries risks similar to those risks described above relative to expansion into new markets in the U.S.; however, some or all of these factors, including food safety, brand protection and intellectual property protection, may be more pronounced in markets outside Canada and the U.S. due to cultural, political, legal, economic, regulatory and other conditions and differences. As such, our international business operations will be subject to additional legal, accounting, tax and regulatory risks associated with doing business internationally, including: tariffs, quotas, other trade protection measures; import or export regulations and licensing requirements; foreign exchange controls; restrictions on our ability to own or operate or repatriate profits from our subsidiaries, make investments or acquire new businesses in foreign jurisdictions; difficulties in enforcement of contractual obligations governed by non-Canadian or U.S. law due to differing interpretation of rights and obligations in connection with international franchise or licensing agreements and collection of royalties from international restaurant owners; compliance with multiple and potentially conflicting laws; new and potentially untested laws and judicial systems; and reduced or diminished protection of intellectual property. For example, we currently plan to export our proprietary products to our restaurant owners in our new international markets. Numerous government regulations apply to both the export of food products from Canada and the U.S. as well as the import of food products into other countries. If one or more of the ingredients in our products are banned, alternative ingredients would need to be identified and sourced. Although we intend to be proactive in addressing any product ingredient issues, such requirements may delay our ability to open restaurants in other countries in accordance with our planned or desired schedule. 32 Table of Contents Any operational shortcoming of a licensee is likely to be attributed by consumers to our entire system, thus damaging our brand reputation and potentially affecting revenues and profitability. Additionally, we may also have difficulty finding suppliers and distributors to provide us with adequate and stable supplies of ingredients meeting our standards in a cost-effective manner. Although we believe we have developed the support structure required for international growth, there can be no assurance that our international operations will achieve or maintain profitability or meet planned growth rates. There can be no assurance that appropriate restaurant owners and/or other licensees will be available in our new international markets. We currently expect that our international restaurant owners may be responsible for the development of a larger number of restaurants than typical for our Canadian or U.S. restaurant owners. As a result, our international operations may be more closely tied to the success of a smaller number of our restaurant owners than typical for our Canadian and U.S. operations. Our operating results and financial condition could be adversely impacted by the current worldwide economic conditions. Our operating results and financial condition are sensitive to and dependent upon discretionary spending by consumers, which may be affected by downward pressure in general economic conditions that could drive down demand for our products and result in fewer transactions or decrease average value per transaction at our restaurants. In addition, we have investments of cash in bank deposits and money market funds, which could experience sharp declines in returns or otherwise be at risk depending upon the extent of instability in the credit and investment markets. The current economic conditions may also have negative impacts on businesses in general, including our restaurant owners, suppliers and strategic partners. We cannot predict the timing or duration of the suppressed economic conditions or the timing or strength of a subsequent economic recovery, and many of the effects and consequences of these conditions are currently unknown; any one or all of them could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and/or capital resources. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business. Unforeseen events, including war, terrorism and other international, regional or local instability or conflicts (including labour issues), embargos, public health issues (including tainted food, food-borne illnesses, food tampering, or water supply or widespread/pandemic illness such as the avian or H1N1 flu), and natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, or other adverse weather and climate conditions, whether occurring in Canada, the U.S. or abroad, could disrupt our operations; disrupt the operations of our restaurant owners, suppliers, or customers; or, result in political or economic instability. These events could reduce traffic in our restaurants and demand for our products; make it difficult or impossible to adequately staff our restaurants, receive products from suppliers, deliver products to our restaurant owners on a timely basis, or perform functions at the corporate level; and, otherwise impede our ability to continue our business operations in a continuous manner consistent with the level and extent of our business activities prior to the occurrence of the unexpected event or events. We rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business, and a disruption or a failure of such networks, systems or technology could harm our ability to run our business. Network and information systems and other technology systems are integral to retail operations at system restaurants, in our distribution facilities, at our manufacturing facilities, and at our office locations. We also rely heavily on computer systems in managing financial results. These systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer worms, viruses and other destructive or disruptive software, security breaches, catastrophic events and improper or personal usage by employees. Such an event could have an adverse impact on us and our customers, employees and restaurant owners, including a disruption of our operations, customer dissatisfaction or a loss of customers or revenues. Such an event also could result in expenditures necessary to repair or replace such networks or information systems or to protect them from similar events in the future. 33 Table of Contents In connection with our integrated financial system and our electronic payment solutions, we rely extensively on third-party vendors to retain data, process transactions, and provide certain services. While we make every reasonable effort to ensure that these vendors have appropriate processes and controls in place to make certain that there is continuity of services and protection of data, we have no direct control over the same; consequently, the possibility of failure in such third-party vendors’ systems and processes exists. In such an event, we could experience business interruptions or privacy and/or security breaches surrounding our data. For additional information regarding risks surrounding privacy and/or security breaches, refer to our risk factor “Privacy protection is increasingly demanding, and the introduction of electronic payment exposes us to increased risk of privacy and/or security breaches as well as other risks.” We continue to enhance our integrated enterprise resource planning system. The introduction of new modules for inventory replenishment, sustainability, and business reporting and analysis will be implemented over the next two years. These systems will integrate and exchange data with the financial modules already in place. There may be risks associated with adjusting to and supporting the new modules which may impact our relations with our restaurant owners, vendors and suppliers and the conduct of our business generally. Fluctuations in U.S. and Canadian dollar exchange rates can affect commodity prices and our results generally, as well as the price of common shares and certain dividends we pay. Our Canadian restaurants are vulnerable to increases in the value of the U.S. dollar, as certain commodities, such as coffee, are priced in U.S. dollars in international markets. We typically do not enter into purchase agreements for coffee or other commodities in excess of one year; however, we do engage in purchasing activity that mitigates, to a certain degree, our exposure to fluctuations in commodity costs, and we do hedge certain exposures to foreign exchange risk. Conversely, our U.S. restaurants are impacted when the value of the U.S. dollar falls relative to the Canadian dollar. Although we have been shifting sourcing for U.S. restaurants for some of our products and supplies to the U.S., our U.S. restaurants are required to purchase many goods from Canadian suppliers through our third-party distributors. The costs of these goods in U.S. dollars rise when the Canadian dollar increases in value relative to the U.S. dollar. Increases in these costs would affect the profitability of our U.S. restaurants and potentially make it harder for us to expand in the U.S. In addition, relief and support costs for U.S. restaurant owners would likely increase, adversely affecting our earnings. In addition, the majority of our operations, restaurants, income, revenues, expenses and cash flows are in Canadian dollars and we report our results in Canadian dollars. When the U.S. dollar falls in value relative to the Canadian dollar, any profits reported by the Company’s U.S. business segment contribute less to (or, for losses, do not impact as significantly) our consolidated Canadian dollar earnings because of the weaker U.S. dollar. Conversely, when the U.S. dollar increases in value relative to the Canadian dollar, any profits reported by the Company’s U.S. business segment contribute more to (or, for losses, impact more significantly) our consolidated Canadian dollar earnings because of the stronger U.S. dollar. Royalties paid to us by our international restaurant owners will be based on a conversion of local currencies to U.S. dollars using the prevailing exchange rate, and changes in the exchange rate could adversely affect our revenues. To the extent that the portion of any revenues generated from international operations increases in the future, our exposure to change in currency fluctuations will increase. Canadian dollars drive our earnings per share; accordingly, our earnings per share may be translated into U.S. dollars by analysts and others. Given the foregoing, the value of an investment in our common shares to a U.S. shareholder will fluctuate as the U.S. dollar rises and falls against the Canadian dollar. Our decision to declare a dividend depends on results of operations reported in Canadian dollars, and we declare dividends in Canadian dollars. As a result, U.S. and other shareholders seeking U.S. dollar total returns, including increases in the share price and dividends paid, are subject to foreign exchange risk as the U.S. dollar rises and falls against the Canadian dollar. See Item 5 of this Report for additional information regarding the conversion of dividends. 34 Table of Contents Privacy protection is increasingly demanding, and the introduction of electronic payment exposes us to increased risk of privacy and/or security breaches as well as other risks. The protection of customer, employee, vendor, restaurant owner and other business data is critical to us. Federal, state, provincial and international laws and regulations govern the collection, retention, sharing and security of data that we receive from and about our employees, customers, vendors, suppliers and restaurant owners. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy has been increasingly demanding in recent years, and may see the imposition of new and additional requirements. Compliance with these requirements may result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes and the development of new processes to meet these requirements by us and our restaurant owners. In addition, customers and restaurant owners have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. If we or our service provider fail to comply with these laws and regulations or experience a significant breach of customer, employee, vendor, restaurant owner or other company data, our reputation could be damaged and result in an increase in service charges, suspension of service, lost sales, fines, or lawsuits. With our use of credit payment systems, our reloadable cash card, and use of debit card systems across Canada, we are more susceptible to a risk, particularly with respect to an external security breach of customer information that we or third parties under arrangements with us control (including those with whom we have strategic alliances). We could become subject to various claims, including those arising out of thefts and fraudulent transactions in the event of a security breach, theft, leakage, accidental release or other illegal activity with respect to employee; customer; vendor; restaurant owner; third-party, including those with whom we have strategic alliances; or, other company data. This may also result in the suspension of electronic payment processing services. This could harm our reputation as well as divert management attention and expose us to potentially unreserved claims and litigation. Any loss in connection with these types of claims could be substantial. In addition, if our electronic payment systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make significant investments to fix or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. In addition, we are reliant on these systems, not only to protect the security of the information stored, but also to appropriately track and record data. Any failures or inadequacies in these systems could expose us to significant unreserved losses, which could result in an earnings and stock price decline. Our brand reputation would likely be damaged as well. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could decrease the value of our brand and branded products. The success of our business depends on our continued ability to use our existing trademarks, service marks, and other components of our brand in order to increase brand awareness and further develop branded products in the U.S. and Canadian markets, as well as in international markets in which we may wish to expand. We may not be able to adequately protect our trademarks, and use of these trademarks may result in liability for trademark infringement, trademark dilution, or unfair competition. In addition, in certain jurisdictions outside of the U.S. and Canada, there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of laws and regulations relating to, and the enforceability of, intellectual property and related contract rights. Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to adequately monitor the use of our intellectual property or enforce our intellectual property and related contract rights in courts in international jurisdictions. Our ownership and leasing of significant amounts of real estate exposes us to possible liabilities, losses, and risks. As of January 2, 2011, we owned or leased the land or building for approximately 79% of our 3,750 system restaurants. Accordingly, we are subject to all of the risks associated with owning and leasing real estate. In particular, the value of our assets could decrease, and/or our costs could increase, because of changes in the investment climate for real estate, demographic trends, demand for restaurant sites and other retail properties, and exposure to or liability associated with environmental contamination and reclamation, as further discussed above. 35 Table of Contents We lease land generally for initial terms of 10 to 20 years. Most of our leases provide that the rent increases over the term of the lease and require us to pay all of the costs of insurance, taxes, maintenance, utilities, and other property-related costs. We generally cannot cancel these leases. If an existing or future restaurant is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease, including, among other things, paying the base rent, taxes, and common area expenses for the balance of the lease term. Certain leases may limit our ability to terminate our use of the underlying real estate, making it more costly to close undesirable locations. In addition, as leases expire, we may fail to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close restaurants in desirable locations. A downgrade of our credit rating could adversely affect our cost of funds, liquidity and access to capital markets. Failure to maintain our credit rating could adversely affect our cost of funds, liquidity and access to capital markets. We received an inaugural debt rating in connection with the issuance of our senior unsecured seven year 4.20% notes in Canada on June 1, 2010. Although we have indicated our intent to target maintenance of an investment grade credit rating, ratings are evaluated and determined by independent third parties and may be impacted by events both outside of our control as well as significant decisions made by us, including major acquisitions or divestitures. Credit rating agencies perform independent analysis when assigning credit ratings and such analysis includes a number of criteria, including, but not limited to, various financial tests, business composition and market and operational risks. The credit rating agencies continually review the criteria for industry sectors and various credit ratings. Accordingly, such criteria may change from time to time. A downgrade of our credit rating may limit our access to capital markets and increase our cost of borrowing under debt facilities or future note issuances. In addition, if the rating agency were to downgrade our credit rating, the instruments governing our future indebtedness could impose additional restrictions on our ability to make capital expenditures or otherwise limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in our business and the industry in which we operate and our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. These modifications could also require us to meet more stringent financial ratios and tests or could require us to grant a security interest in our assets to secure the indebtedness in the future. Our ability to comply with covenants contained in the instruments governing our existing and future indebtedness may be affected by events and circumstances beyond our control. If we breach any of these covenants, one or more events of default, including defaults between multiple components of our indebtedness, could result, and the payment of principal and interest due and payable on our outstanding senior notes may become accelerated. These events of default could permit our creditors to declare all amounts owing to be immediately due and payable, and terminate any commitments to make further extensions of credit. The lack of access to cost-effective capital resources, an increase in our financing costs, or a breach of debt instrument covenants could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or future results. A downgrade in our credit rating could also affect the value and marketability of our outstanding notes. Credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold investments in the rated entity. Ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the ratings agencies and there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our credit rating even if we meet or exceed their criteria or that other credit rating agencies will similarly assign us ratings. Failure to retain our existing senior management team or the inability to attract and retain new qualified personnel could hurt our business and inhibit our ability to operate and grow successfully. Our success will continue to depend to a significant extent on our executive management team and the ability of other key management personnel to replace executives who retire or resign. We may not be able to retain our executive officers and key personnel or attract additional qualified management personnel to replace executives who retire or resign. Failure to retain our leadership team and attract and retain other important personnel could lead to ineffective management and operations, which would likely decrease our profitability. 36 Table of Contents Our articles, by-laws, shareholder rights plan and certain Canadian legislation contain provisions that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws, together or separately, could discourage potential acquisition proposals, delay or prevent a change in control, and limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common shares. Our articles of incorporation authorize our Board of Directors to issue an unlimited number of preferred shares, which are commonly referred to as “blank check” preferred shares and, therefore, our Board of Directors may designate and create the preferred shares as shares of any series and determine the respective rights and restrictions of any such series. The rights of the holders of our common shares will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred shares that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred shares could delay, deter, or prevent a change in control and could adversely affect the voting power or economic value of the common shares. In addition, our by-laws contain provisions that establish certain advance notice procedures for nomination of candidates for election as directors and for shareholder proposals to be considered at shareholders’ meetings. Furthermore, under these provisions, directors may be removed by majority shareholder vote at special meetings of shareholders. For a further description of these provisions, see our articles of incorporation, by-laws, and the Canada Business Corporations Act. Pursuant to our shareholder rights plan (the “Rights Plan”), one right to purchase a common share (a “Right”) has been issued in respect of each of the outstanding Common Shares and an additional Right will be issued in respect of each additional common share issued prior to the Separation Time (as defined below). The purpose of the Rights Plan is to provide holders of our common shares, and our Board of Directors, with the time necessary to ensure that, in the event of a take-over bid (the Canadian term for a tender offer) for our company, alternatives to the bid which may be in the best interests of our company are identified and fully explored. The Rights Plan can potentially impose a significant penalty on any person or group that acquires, or begins a tender or exchange offer that would result in such person acquiring, 20% or more of the outstanding common shares. See Exhibit 4(a) to this Report for reference to our Rights Plan, which is also described in more detail in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Report. The Investment Canada Act requires that a “non-Canadian”, as defined therein, file an application for review with the Minister responsible for the Investment Canada Act and obtain approval of the Minister prior to acquiring control of a Canadian business, where prescribed financial thresholds are exceeded. Otherwise, there are no limitations either under the laws of Canada or in the Company’s articles on the right of a non-Canadian to hold or vote our common shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 