Risk Factors An investment in the Fund involves a high degree of risk. Investors should be aware of the various risks, including those described below. Investors should consider carefully the risks described below before making an 8 Table of Contents investment decision. Investors should also refer to the other information included in this Annual Report, including the Fund’s financial statements and the related notes and the Fund’s other filings with the SEC. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known by the Fund or not presently deemed material by the Fund may also impair the Fund’s operations and performance. If any of the following events occur, the Fund’s performance could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, the Fund’s net asset value and the trading price of the Fund’s shares may decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Commodity Investment Strategy Risks You may lose all of your investment—An investment in the Fund’s shares is subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of the entire amount that you invest. An investment in the Fund’s shares represents an indirect investment in the commodity futures and forward contracts owned by the Fund, the prices of which can be volatile, particularly over short time periods. Investments in individual commodity futures and forward contracts and options on futures contracts and forward contracts historically have had a high degree of price variability and may be subject to rapid and substantial price changes. These price changes may be magnified by computer-driven algorithmic trading, which is becoming more prevalent in the commodities market. The Fund could incur significant losses on its investments in those commodity futures and forward contracts. If the Fund experiences greater losses than gains during the period you hold shares, you will experience a loss for the period even if the Fund’s historical performance is positive. The Fund’s risk-adjusted returns over any particular period may be positive or negative. Movements in commodity investment prices are outside of the Fund’s control, are extremely difficult to predict and may not be anticipated by the Commodity Sub-advisor. Price movements may be influenced by, among other things: • governmental, agricultural, trade, fiscal, monetary and exchange control programs and policies; • weather and climate conditions; • changing supply and demand relationships; • changes in international balances of payments and trade; • U.S. and international rates of inflation; • currency devaluations and revaluations; • U.S. and international political and economic events; • changes in interest and foreign currency/exchange rates; • market liquidity; and • changes in philosophies and emotions of market participants. The changing interests of investors, hedgers and speculators in the commodity markets may influence whether futures prices are above or below the expected future spot price—In order to induce investors or speculators to take the corresponding long side of a futures contract, commodity producers must be willing to sell futures contracts at prices that are below the present value of expected future spot prices. Conversely, if the predominant participants in the futures market are the ultimate purchasers of the underlying commodity futures contracts in order to hedge against a rise in prices, then speculators should only take the short side of the futures contract if the futures price is greater than the present value of the expected future spot price of the commodity. This can have significant implications for the Fund when it is time to reinvest the proceeds from a maturing futures contract into a new futures contract. If the interests of investors, hedgers and speculators in futures markets have shifted such that commodity purchasers are the predominant participants in the market, the Fund will be constrained to reinvest at higher futures prices which could have a negative effect on the Fund’s returns. 9 Table of Contents Conversely, if commodity sellers are the predominant participants in the market, the Fund will be constrained to reinvest at lower prices which could have a negative effect on the Fund’s returns and may cause it to suffer losses on its long positions. Regulatory developments could significantly and adversely affect the Fund—Commodity markets are subject to comprehensive statutes and regulations promulgated not only by the CFTC but also by self-regulatory organizations such as the NFA. Among others, the CFTC and the exchanges on which futures contracts are traded are authorized to take extraordinary actions in the event of a market emergency, including, for example, the retroactive implementation of speculative position limits or higher margin requirements, the establishment of daily limits and the suspension of trading. Any of these actions, if taken, could adversely affect the returns of the Fund by limiting or precluding investment decisions the Fund might otherwise make. The regulation of commodity transactions in the U.S. is a rapidly changing area of law and is subject to ongoing modification by government, self-regulatory and judicial action. In addition, various national governments have expressed concern regarding the disruptive effects of speculative trading in the currency markets and the need to regulate the derivatives markets in general. The effect of any future regulatory change on the Fund is impossible to predict, but could be substantial and adverse to the Fund. Regulatory trading and exchange position limits may adversely affect the Fund—The CFTC and U.S. commodities exchanges limit the amount of fluctuation permitted in futures contract prices during a single trading day by regulations referred to as “daily price fluctuation limits” or “daily trading limits.” Once the daily trading limit has been reached in a particular futures contract, no trades may be made that day at a price beyond that limit or trading may be suspended for specified periods during the trading day. Futures contract prices could move to the limit for several consecutive trading days with little or no trading, thereby preventing prompt liquidation of futures positions and potentially disguising substantial losses the Fund may ultimately incur. Separately, the CFTC and the U.S. commodities exchanges and certain non-U.S. exchanges have established limits referred to as “speculative position limits” or “accountability levels” on the maximum net long or short futures positions that any person may hold or control in contracts traded on such exchanges. The CFTC has recently withdrawn relief previously granted to Gresham concerning position limits with respect to certain agricultural commodities (soybeans, corn and wheat) in which Gresham invests under TAP®. The effect of such withdrawal is that, beginning January 15, 2010, Gresham became subject to the same position limit rules as other investors. Consistent with regulation, Gresham has taken steps to mitigate the potential risks associated with becoming subject to such limits (including expanding the number of exchanges on which it trades). In October 2011, the CFTC adopted final regulations pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) that impose position limits on 28 physical commodity futures and options contracts and on physical commodity swaps that are economically equivalent to such contracts in order to prevent excessive speculation and manipulation in the commodity markets. The contracts include certain agricultural, metals and energy commodities to be traded by the Fund. Under such regulations, position limits would be set on the spot month, single month and all-months-combined across different trading venues for contracts based on the same underlying commodity. The position limits will be implemented in two phases: the first phase will be on spot month contracts for which position limits were established under prior regulations (i.e., certain agricultural contracts called “legacy contracts”) based on exchange data and existing limits. In the second phase, the CFTC will adjust the limits on spot month legacy contracts on a regular schedule, set to 25 percent of the CFTC’s determination of estimated deliverable supply for the commodity in normal cash marketing channels at the contract’s delivery point. The Fund does not intend to trade contracts in the spot month, which the final regulations define generally as the period commencing just before the first notice day for any delivery month and terminating at the end of the delivery period. Non-spot month limits for non-legacy contracts (agricultural contracts not subject to position limits before the final regulations and energy and metals contracts) will be set in the second phase based on a scaled percentage of the total open interest for a 12-month time period. The final regulations require that a trader aggregate all positions in accounts in which the trader, directly or indirectly, holds an ownership or equity interest of 10 percent or more as well as accounts over which the trader controls trading. A trader would also be required to aggregate positions in multiple accounts or commodity pools, including passively-managed index funds, if those accounts or pools have identical trading strategies. The 10 Table of Contents regulations provide for daily and monthly reporting of cash commodity transactions and corresponding hedge positions if limits are exceeded and an enhanced reporting regime for traders who hold or control positions in certain energy and metal contracts above a specified net long or net short position. The compliance date for agricultural spot month and non-spot month legacy contracts is 60 days after the date of publication of the final regulations in the Federal Register. The aggregation of such limits will become effective 60 days after the CFTC adopts regulations further defining the term “swap” under the Dodd-Frank Act. For non-spot month non-legacy contracts the compliance date will be determined by the CFTC when it establishes limits expected to be in approximately 12 months after collection of swap positional data. Prior to this time, traders are required to comply with existing position limits and exchange accountability levels. The final regulations are extremely complex and may require further guidance and interpretation by the CFTC to determine in all respects how they apply to the Fund. Any deflation or unanticipated changes in inflation may negatively affect the expected future spot price of underlying commodities—Deflation or unanticipated changes in the rate of inflation may result in changes in the future spot price of the underlying commodities that could negatively affect the Fund’s profitability and result in potential losses. In addition, reduced economic growth may lead to reduced demand for the underlying commodities and put downward pressure on the future spot prices, adversely affecting the Fund’s operations and profitability. Although the Manager and the Commodity Sub-advisor believe that the Fund’s options strategy can provide the potential for current gains from option premiums, in up markets the Fund will forego potential appreciation in the value of the underlying contracts to the extent the price of those contracts exceeds the exercise price of options written by the Fund plus the premium collected by writing the call options. Options Strategy Risks There can be no assurance that the Fund’s options strategy will be successful—The Fund uses options on commodity futures and forward contracts to enhance the Fund’s risk-adjusted total returns. The Fund may seek to protect its commodity futures and forward contracts positions in the event of a market decline in those positions by purchasing commodity put options that are “out-of-the money.” The Fund’s use of options, however, may not provide any, or only partial, protection from adverse commodity price changes. Specific price movements of the commodities or futures contracts underlying an option cannot be accurately predicted. There may be imperfect correlation between the changes in the market value of the futures contracts and the corresponding options contracts held by the Fund. Accordingly, the return performance of the Fund’s commodity futures and forward contracts may not parallel the performance of the commodities or indices that serve as the basis for the options bought or sold by the Fund; this basis risk may reduce the Fund’s overall returns. Investing in options is volatile and requires an accurate assessment of the market and the underlying instrument. Factors such as increased or reduced volatility, limited dollar value traded and timing of placing and executing orders may preclude the Fund from achieving the desired results of the options strategy and could affect the Fund’s ability to generate income and gains and limit losses. Because of the volatile nature of the commodities markets, the writing (selling) of commodity options involves a high degree of risk. The Fund may forego gains (i.e. capital appreciation) above the option exercise price on up to approximately 50% of its commodity futures and forward contracts as a result of selling “out-of-the-money” commodity call options—The Fund writes commodity call options with terms up to one year that may be up to 20% “out-of-the-money” on a continual basis on up to approximately 50% of the notional value of each of its commodity futures and forward contract positions that, in Gresham’s determination, have sufficient option trading volume and liquidity. As the writer of a call option, the Fund sells, in exchange for receipt of a premium, the right to any appreciation in the value of the futures or forward contract over a fixed price on or before a certain date in the future. Accordingly, the Fund is effectively limiting its potential for appreciation to the amount the option is “out-of-the-money” during the option term on up to approximately 50% of the notional value of its portfolio invested in commodity futures and forward contracts. As commodity prices change, an option that was “out-of-the-money” when written may subsequently become “in-the-money.” 11 Table of Contents The Fund may incur put premium costs without benefiting from its investment in commodity put options—Although the Fund does not currently intend to do so, in the future the Fund may purchase commodity put options on all or substantially all of the notional value of its commodity futures and forward contract positions. As a holder of a put option, the Fund, in exchange for payment of a premium, has the right to receive from the seller of the commodity put option, if the current price is lower than the exercise price, the difference between the put exercise price and the current price of the underlying commodity futures or forward contract on or before a specified date (in the case of “American-style” options, on or before the expiration date or, in the case of “European-style” options, at the expiration date). If the price of the commodity futures or forward contract is greater than the exercise price of the put option upon expiration, then the Fund will have incurred the cost of the option but not have received any benefit from its purchase. In addition, because the Fund generally will purchase commodity put options that are substantially “out-of-the-money,” at the time of purchase, the Fund will not be protected against, and will bear the loss associated with, a market decline down to the exercise price of the option. The Fund is subject to gap risk, which is the risk that a commodity price will change from one level to another with no trading in between—Usually such movements occur when there are adverse news announcements, which can cause a commodity price to drop substantially from the previous day’s closing price. In the event of an extreme market change or gap move in the price of a single commodity when Gresham is unable to trade, the Fund’s exposure to that commodity will increase in proportion to the Fund’s option exposure. The Fund’s option strategy increases the Fund’s gap risk and could adversely affect the Fund’s performance in the event that the price of an individual commodity futures contract drops substantially. Gap risk may also negatively impact the trading price of the Fund’s shares. Risk that the Fund’s Shares May Trade at a Discount to Net Asset Value There is a risk that the Fund’s shares may trade at prices other than the Fund’s net asset value per share—The net asset value of each share will change as fluctuations occur in the market value of the Fund’s portfolio. Investors should be aware that the public trading price of a share may be different from the net asset value of a share and that shares may trade at a discount from their net asset value (which could be significant). The price difference may be due to the fact that supply and demand forces at work in the secondary trading market for shares are not necessarily the same as the forces influencing the prices of the commodity futures and forward contracts and other instruments held by the Fund at any point in time. Risks Related to an Exchange Listing The NYSE Amex may halt trading in the shares which would adversely impact your ability to sell shares—The Fund’s shares are listed on the NYSE Amex under the market symbol CFD. Trading in shares may be halted due to market conditions or, in light of the NYSE Amex rules and procedures, for reasons that, in the view of the NYSE Amex, make trading in shares inadvisable. In addition, trading is subject to trading halts caused by extraordinary market volatility pursuant to “circuit breaker” rules that require trading to be halted for a specified period based on a specified market decline. There can be no assurance that the requirements necessary to maintain the listing of the shares will continue to be met or will remain unchanged. The lack of an active trading market for shares may result in losses on your investment at the time of disposition of your shares—There can be no guarantee that an active trading market for the shares will be maintained. If you need to sell your shares at a time when no active market for them exists, the price you receive for your shares, assuming that you are able to sell them, likely will be lower than that you would receive if an active market did exist. Commodity Sub-advisor Risks Gresham utilizes a strategy for the Fund that differs from the strategy on which its historical performance record is based—Gresham’s historical performance record (as presented in the Fund’s information statement posted on its website) reflects the use of TAP® and TAP PLUSSM. Before the Fund’s initial public offering, 12 Table of Contents Gresham had not previously employed TAP PLUSSM (TAP® plus the options strategy) for the accounts of clients and, as a result, its historical performance record for TAP® is not based on an investment approach that is identical to the investment approach used for the Fund. TAP PLUSSM is designed to enhance the Fund’s risk-adjusted total returns, which may have the effect of limiting the level of gains or losses that the Fund otherwise would achieve. Therefore, Gresham’s historical performance record for TAP® is not as relevant to investors in the Fund as it would be if Gresham were using only TAP® in investing for the Fund. Past performance is no assurance of future results—Gresham bases its investment decisions on three inputs: (i) systematic calculations of the values of global commodity production; (ii) total U.S. dollar trading volume on commodity futures and forwards exchanges and (iii) global import/export trade values. Any subsequent commodity sub-advisor to the Fund may employ a different commodity investment strategy than Gresham. Neither Gresham’s proprietary methodology nor the investment methodology that may be used by any subsequent commodity sub-advisors take into account unanticipated world events that may cause losses to the Fund. Past performance does not assure future results. Descriptions of the Commodity Sub-advisor’s strategies may not be applicable in the future—The Commodity Sub-advisor or any subsequent commodity sub-advisor may make material changes to the investment strategy it uses in investing the Fund’s assets with the consent of the Manager, who has the sole authority to authorize any material changes. If this happens, the descriptions in this document would no longer be accurate or useful. The Manager does not anticipate that this will occur frequently, if at all. You will be informed of any changes to the Commodity Sub-advisor’s strategy that the Manager deems to be material; however, you may not be notified until after a change occurs. Non-material changes may be made by the Commodity Sub-advisor or any subsequent commodity sub-advisor without the Manager’s consent. These changes may nevertheless affect the Fund’s performance. Speculative position limits and daily trading limits may reduce profitability and result in substantial losses—All accounts owned or managed by a commodity trading advisor, such as the Commodity Sub-advisor, its principals and its affiliates are typically combined for speculative position limit purposes. It is possible that the Commodity Sub-advisor will approach or reach position limits and, if so, will have a conflict of interest with respect to allocating limited positions among various accounts it manages. Further, the investment decisions of the Commodity Sub-advisor may be modified to avoid exceeding regulatory “position limits,” potentially subjecting the Fund to substantial losses and forcing the Fund to forego certain opportunities. The Commodity Sub-advisor may have to reduce the size of positions that would otherwise be taken for the Fund, liquidate commodity futures contracts at disadvantageous times or prices, or not trade in certain markets on behalf of the Fund in order to avoid exceeding such limits. Modification of trades that would otherwise be made by the Fund, if required, could adversely affect the Fund’s operations and profitability. In addition, a violation of speculative position limits by the Commodity Sub-advisor could lead to regulatory or self-regulatory action resulting in mandatory liquidation of certain positions held by the Fund and other accounts of the Commodity Sub-advisor. There can be no assurance that the Commodity Sub-advisor will liquidate positions held on behalf of all the Commodity Sub-advisor’s accounts, including its own accounts, in a proportionate manner. In the event the Commodity Sub-advisor chooses to liquidate a disproportionate number of positions held on behalf of the Fund at unfavorable prices, the Fund may incur substantial losses. Increased competition could adversely affect the Fund—The Commodity Sub-advisor believes that there has been, over time, an increase in interest in commodity investing. As Gresham’s capital under management increases, an increasing number of traders may attempt to initiate or liquidate substantial positions at or about the same time as the Commodity Sub-advisor, or otherwise alter historical trading patterns or affect the execution of trades, to the detriment of the Fund. 13 Table of Contents Other Risks of the Fund’s Investment Strategy There may be a loss on investments in short-term debt securities—When the Fund purchases a futures contract, the Fund is required to deposit with its futures commission merchant only a portion of the value of the contract. This deposit is known as “initial margin.” If and when the market moves against the position, the Fund is required to make additional deposits known as “variation margin.” The Fund invests its assets, other than the amount of margin required to be maintained by the Fund, in short-term, high grade debt securities. The value of these high grade debt securities generally moves inversely with movements in interest rates (declining as interest rates rise). The value of these high grade debt securities might also decline if the credit quality of the issuer deteriorates, or if the issuer defaults on its obligations. If the Fund is required to sell short-term debt securities before they mature when the value of the securities has declined, the Fund will realize a loss. This loss may adversely impact the price of the Fund’s shares. Daily disclosure of portfolio holdings could allow replication of the Fund’s portfolio and could have a negative effect on the Fund’s holdings—Because the Fund’s total portfolio holdings are disclosed on a daily basis, other investors may attempt to replicate the Fund’s portfolio or otherwise use the information in a manner that could have a negative effect on the Fund’s individual portfolio holdings and the Fund’s portfolio as a whole. Certain of the Fund’s investments may become illiquid—The Fund may not always be able to liquidate its investments at the desired price. It is difficult to execute a trade at a specific price when there is a relatively small volume of buy and sell orders in a market. A market disruption, such as a foreign government taking political actions that disrupt the market in its currency or in a major export, can also make it difficult to liquidate a position. Alternatively, limits imposed by futures exchanges or other regulatory organizations, such as speculative position limits and daily price fluctuation limits, may contribute to a lack of liquidity with respect to some commodity investments. Unexpected market illiquidity may cause losses to investors. The large stated value of the investments that the Commodity Sub-advisor acquires for the Fund increases the risk of illiquidity by both making its investments more difficult to liquidate at favorable prices and increasing the losses while trying to do so. An investment in the Fund may not necessarily diversify an investor’s overall portfolio—The investment performance of commodities has shown little long-term historical correlation to the performance of other asset classes such as U.S. equities and U.S. bonds. Little correlation means that there is a low statistical relationship between the performance of commodity investments, on the one hand, and U.S. equities and U.S. bonds, on the other hand. Because there is little long-term historical correlation, the Fund cannot be expected to be automatically profitable during unfavorable periods in the stock or bond markets, or vice versa. If, during a particular period of time, the Fund’s performance moves in the same general direction as the other financial markets or the Fund does not perform successfully relative to overall commodity markets, you may obtain little or no diversification benefits during that period from an investment in the Fund’s shares. In such a case, the Fund may have no gains to offset your losses from such other investments, and you may suffer losses on your investment in the Fund at the same time losses on your other investments are increasing. Investments in futures contracts will expose the Fund to the risk of temporary aberrations or distortions in the commodity markets—The Fund is subject to the risk that temporary aberrations or distortions in the markets (such as war, strikes, geopolitical events and natural disasters) will occur that impact commodity prices and negatively impact the value of the Fund’s positions, thereby adversely affecting the value of your shares. Because the futures contracts have no intrinsic value, the positive performance of your investment is wholly dependent upon an equal and offsetting loss—Futures trading is a risk transfer economic activity. For every gain there is an equal and offsetting loss rather than an opportunity to participate over time in general economic growth. Unlike most alternative investments, an investment in shares of the Fund does not involve acquiring any asset with intrinsic value. Overall stock and bond prices could rise significantly and the economy as a whole prosper while shares of the Fund trade unprofitably. 14 Table of Contents Risk of Investing in Non-U.S. Markets Investing in non-U.S. markets will expose the Fund to additional credit and regulatory risk—The Fund currently expects that up to 30% of its net assets invested in commodity futures and forward contracts and options on commodity futures and forward contracts may be in non-U.S. markets. Some non-U.S. markets present risks because they are not subject to the same degree of regulation as their U.S. counterparts. None of the SEC, CFTC, NFA, or any domestic exchange regulates activities of any foreign boards of trade or exchanges, including the execution, delivery and clearing of transactions, nor has the power to compel enforcement of the rules of a foreign board of trade or exchange or of any applicable non-U.S. laws. Similarly, the rights of market participants, such as the Fund, in the event of the insolvency or bankruptcy of a non-U.S. market or broker are also likely to be more limited than in the case of U.S. markets or brokers. As a result, in these markets, the Fund would have less legal and regulatory protection than it does when it invests domestically. Investing through non-U.S. exchanges is subject to the risks presented by exchange controls, expropriation, increased tax burdens and exposure to local economic declines and political instability. An adverse development with respect to any of these variables could reduce the profit or increase the loss on investments of the Fund in the affected international markets. The Fund’s non-U.S. investments may be exposed to losses resulting from non-U.S. exchanges that are less developed or less reliable than U.S. exchanges—Some non-U.S. commodity exchanges may be in a more developmental stage than U.S. exchanges, so that prior price histories may not be indicative of current price dynamics. In addition, the Fund may not have the same access to certain contracts on foreign exchanges as do local traders, and the historical market data on which the Commodity Sub-advisor bases its strategies may not be as reliable or accessible as it is in the U.S. All of these factors could adversely affect the performance of the Fund. Regulatory and Operating Risks The Fund is not a regulated investment company—Unlike other Nuveen-sponsored funds, the Fund is not a mutual fund, a closed-end fund, or any other type of investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act. Accordingly, you do not have the protections afforded by that statute which, among other things, regulates the relationship between the investment company and its investment adviser and mandates certain authority to be held by the board of directors of an investment company. The Fund’s operating history is limited—The Fund has a very brief operating history. Therefore, there is a limited performance history for the Fund to serve as a basis for you to evaluate an investment in the Fund. Manager and Commodity Sub-advisor experience—Prior to the initial public offering of the Fund, the Manager had not previously operated a commodity pool or selected a commodity trading advisor. While the Commodity Sub-advisor has previously managed assets pursuant to TAP®, it had never employed TAP PLUSSM when managing assets for clients prior to the Fund’s initial public offering. Neither the Manager nor any of its trading principals has previously operated any other pools or traded any other accounts. Conflicts of interest could adversely affect the Fund—There are conflicts of interest in the structure and operation of the Fund. The Manager has sole authority to manage the Fund, and its interests may conflict with those of Fund shareholders. For example, the Manager’s fees are based on the Fund’s net assets, which could provide an incentive for the Manager to reduce or suspend distributions by the Fund. In addition, the Collateral Sub-advisor and Commodity Sub-advisor are affiliates of the Manager. Each Sub-advisor may encounter conflicts between the interests of the Fund and its other clients. Further, a conflict of interest may also arise when the Commodity Sub-advisor approaches or reaches position limits with respect to futures positions established for the benefit of the Fund and fails to allocate limited contracts available among other accounts it manages or, alternatively, liquidates positions held by other accounts in a disproportionate manner. Although the Fund, the 15 Table of Contents Manager, and the Sub-advisors have not established formal procedures to resolve potential conflicts of interest related to managing the investments and operations of the Fund, the Manager and the Sub-advisors have adopted codes of ethics in recognition of their fiduciary obligations to clients, including the Fund, and in accordance with applicable securities and commodities laws and regulations. Each of the Manager and the Sub-advisors resolve conflicts of interest as they arise based on its judgment and analysis of the particular issue and consistent with its code of ethics. Nonetheless, the Manager and/or the Sub-advisors could resolve a potential conflict in a manner that is not in the best interest of the Fund or its shareholders. Departure of key personnel could adversely affect the Fund—In managing and directing the Fund’s day-to-day activities and affairs, the Manager relies heavily on Gresham and in particular on Jonathan S. Spencer, Douglas J. Hepworth and Dr. Henry G. Jarecki. If those individuals were to leave or be unable to carry out their present responsibilities, it may have an adverse effect on the Fund’s management. In addition, should market conditions deteriorate or for other reasons, Nuveen, NCAM, the Collateral Sub-advisor and the Commodity Sub-advisor may need to implement cost reductions in the future which could make the retention of qualified and experienced personnel more difficult and could lead to personnel turnover. Reliance on affiliates of Nuveen—The Fund is dependent upon services and resources provided by its Manager and Collateral Sub-advisor and their parent Nuveen. Nuveen has a substantial amount of indebtedness. Nuveen, through its own business or the financial support of its affiliates, may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or ensure that future borrowings will be available in an amount sufficient to enable it to pay its indebtedness, with scheduled maturities beginning in 2014, or to fund its other liquidity needs. Nuveen’s failure to satisfy the terms of its indebtedness, including covenants therein, may generally have an adverse effect on the financial condition of Nuveen. Shareholders have limited voting rights, and the individual trustees have limited duties and powers, and neither will be able to affect management of the Fund regardless of performance—Unlike the holder of capital stock in an investment company, Fund shareholders have limited voting rights or other means to control or affect the Fund’s business. In addition, the powers and duties of the individual trustees are very limited with respect to the Fund. The individual trustees’ sole powers are (i) to terminate for cause the Manager of the Fund (which, under the Trust Agreement, will automatically cause the Fund to terminate and be liquidated if at the time there is not a remaining manager and shareholders have not voted to elect a replacement manager), and (ii) to serve as the audit committee and nominating committee of the Fund. The individual trustees of the Fund, unlike the board of directors of an investment company, do not have the power to cause the Fund to change its investment objective or policies, effect changes to operations, approve the advisory fees of the Manager or replace the Manager or Sub-advisors. Rather, the power to determine the Fund’s policies and direct its operations is conferred on the Manager. Thus, Fund shareholders do not benefit from the protection of their interests afforded to registered investment companies under the 1940 Act through the existence of an independent board of directors with extensive powers to control the operations of the company. Therefore, the shareholders to a large extent are dependent on the abilities, judgment and good faith of the Manager in exercising its wide-ranging powers over the Fund, limited solely by the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing applicable to the Manager in its relations with the Fund and its shareholders. If the Manager voluntarily withdraws or is removed by a vote of shareholders and shareholders have not voted to elect a replacement manager, the Fund will terminate and will liquidate its assets pursuant to the Trust Agreement. The Manager may not be removed as manager by Fund shareholders except upon approval by the affirmative vote of the holders of over 50% of the outstanding shares (excluding shares owned by the Manager and its affiliates), subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. Any removal of the Manager by Fund shareholders or by the individual trustees (upon 60 days written notice and under certain limited circumstances) will result in the liquidation of the Fund if at the time there is not a remaining manager unless a successor manager is appointed as provided in the Trust Agreement. Thus, it is extremely unlikely that Fund shareholders will be able to make any changes in the management of the Fund, even if performance is poor. 16 Table of Contents Fees and expenses are charged regardless of profitability and may result in depletion of assets—Regardless of its investment performance the Fund pays brokerage commissions, over-the-counter dealer spreads, management fees and operating and extraordinary expenses. A management fee will be paid by the Fund even if the Fund experiences a net loss for the year. Consequently, the expenses of the Fund could, over time, result in significant losses to your investment including the loss of all of your investment. You may not achieve profits, significant or otherwise. The value of the shares may be adversely affected if the Fund is required to indemnify the individual trustees or the Manager—Under the Trust Agreement, each of the individual trustees and the Manager has the right to be indemnified for any liability or expense it incurs absent actual fraud or willful misconduct. That means that the Manager may require the assets of the Fund to be sold in order to cover losses or liability suffered by it or by the individual trustees. Any sale of that kind would reduce the net asset value of the Fund and the value of the shares. The failure or bankruptcy of one of its clearing brokers could result in a substantial loss of Fund assets—Under CFTC regulations, a clearing broker maintains customers’ assets in a bulk segregated account. If a clearing broker fails to do so, or is unable to satisfy a substantial deficit in a customer account, its other customers may be subject to risk of loss of their funds in the event of that clearing broker’s bankruptcy (as recently experienced with respect to MF Global). In that event, the clearing broker’s customers, such as the Fund, are entitled to recover, even in respect of property specifically traceable to them, only a proportional share of all property available for distribution to all of that clearing broker’s customers. The Fund also may be subject to the risk of the failure of, or delay in performance by, any exchanges and their clearing organizations, if any, on which commodity interest contracts are traded. The clearing brokers may be subject to legal or regulatory proceedings in the ordinary course of their business. A clearing broker’s involvement in costly or time-consuming legal proceedings may divert financial resources or personnel away from the clearing broker’s trading operations, which could impair the clearing broker’s ability to successfully execute and clear the Fund’s trades. An investment in the shares may be adversely affected by competition from other methods of investing in commodities—The Fund constitutes a new, and thus untested, type of investment methodology. It competes with other financial vehicles, including other commodity pools, hedge funds, traditional debt and equity securities issued by companies in the commodities industry, other securities backed by or linked to such commodities, and direct investments in the underlying commodities or commodity futures contracts. Market and financial conditions, and other conditions beyond the Manager’s or Commodity Sub-advisor’s control, may make it more attractive to invest in other financial vehicles or to invest in such commodities directly, which could limit the market for the shares. The commodity markets have volatility risk—The commodity markets have experienced periods of extreme volatility. General market uncertainty and consequent repricing risk have led to market imbalances of sellers and buyers, which in turn have resulted in significant reductions in values of a variety of commodities. Similar future market conditions may result in rapid and substantial valuation increases or decreases in the Fund’s holdings. In addition, volatility in the commodity and securities markets may directly and adversely affect the setting of distribution rates on the Fund’s shares. The Fund has not been subject to independent review or review on your behalf—Shareholders do not have legal counsel representing them in connection with the Fund. Accordingly, a shareholder should consult its legal, tax and financial advisers regarding the desirability of investing in the Fund. As previously noted, you cannot predict the expected results of this Fund from the performance history of other accounts managed by the Commodity Sub-advisor. Deregistration of the Manager or Sub-advisors could disrupt operations—The Manager and the Commodity Sub-advisor are registered commodity pool operators and registered commodity trading advisors. If the CFTC were to terminate, suspend, revoke or not renew the Manager’s registrations, the Manager would be compelled to 17 Table of Contents withdraw as the Fund’s Manager. The shareholders would then determine whether to select a replacement manager or to dissolve the Fund. If the CFTC and/or the SEC were to terminate, suspend, revoke or not renew either of the Sub-advisor’s registrations, the Manager would terminate the management agreement with that sub-advisor. The Manager could choose to appoint a new sub-advisor or terminate the Fund. No action is currently pending or threatened against the Manager, the Commodity Sub-advisor or the Collateral Sub-advisor. The Fund’s distribution policy may change at any time—Distributions paid by the Fund to its shareholders are derived from the current income and gains from the Fund’s portfolio investments and the options strategy, but to the extent such current income and gains are not sufficient to pay distributions, the Fund’s distributions may represent a return of capital. The total return generated by the Fund’s investments can vary widely over the short term and long term and the Fund may liquidate investments in order to make distributions. The timing and terms of any such liquidation could be disadvantageous to the Fund. The Fund reserves the right to change its distribution policy and the basis for establishing the rate of its monthly distributions, or may temporarily suspend or reduce distributions without a change in policy, at any time and may do so without prior notice to shareholders. New regulatory developments may increase competition from other exchange-traded commodity funds that could limit the market for, and reduce the liquidity of, the shares—The CFTC recently adopted rules that, subject to certain conditions, permit the manager (commodity pool operator) of an exchange-traded commodity fund to claim relief from certain requirements relating to the delivery and acknowledgment of commodity pool disclosure documents, delivery of monthly account statements, and the requirement to keep the Fund’s books and records at the commodity pool operator’s main business office. In addition, those rules exempt the independent directors and trustees of an actively managed, exchange-traded commodity pool from having to register as commodity pool operators in their own right, where those persons are required to serve as such only for purposes of composing an audit or other committee under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and exchange listing requirements. These rules may increase the attractiveness of forming exchange-traded commodity funds similar to the Fund, relative to other investment vehicles, including hedge funds, other commodity pools, traditional debt and equity securities issued by companies in the commodities industry and securities backed by or linked to commodities. An increase in the number of such funds facilitated by the new rules could limit the market for, and reduce the liquidity of, the shares and/or make it more difficult for the Fund to implement its investment strategy. Tax Risk Your tax liability may exceed cash distributions—You will be taxed on your share of the Fund’s taxable income and gain each year, regardless of whether you receive any cash distributions from the Fund. Your share of such income or gain, as well as the tax liability generated by such income or gain, may exceed the distributions you receive from the Fund for the year. You could owe tax on your share of the Fund’s ordinary income despite overall losses—Gain or loss on futures and forward contracts and options on futures and forward contracts will generally be taxed as capital gains or losses for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Interest income is ordinary income. In the case of an individual, capital losses can only be used to offset capital gains plus $3,000 ($1,500 in the case of a married taxpayer filing a separate return) of ordinary income each year. Therefore, you may be required to pay tax on your allocable share of the Fund’s ordinary income, even though the Fund incurs overall losses. Certain Fund expenses may be treated as miscellaneous itemized deductions rather than as deductible ordinary and necessary business expenses—Certain expenses incurred by the Fund may be treated as miscellaneous itemized deductions for federal income tax purposes, rather than as deductible ordinary and necessary business expenses, with the result that shareholders who are individuals, trusts, or estates may be subject to limitations on the deductibility of their allocable share of such expenses. 18 Table of Contents Tax-exempt investors may recognize unrelated business taxable income with respect to their investment in the Fund—Persons that are otherwise exempt from federal tax may be allocated unrelated business taxable income as a result of their investment in the Fund. In particular, for charitable remainder trusts, investment in the Fund may not be appropriate. Non-U.S. investors may face U.S. tax consequences—Non-U.S. investors should consult their own tax advisors concerning the applicable foreign as well as the U.S. tax implications of an investment in the Fund. Non-U.S. investors may also be subject to special withholding tax provisions if they fail to furnish the Fund (or another appropriate person) with a timely and properly completed Form W-8BEN or other applicable form. Changes in the Fund’s tax treatment could adversely affect distributions to shareholders—Based upon the continued accuracy of the representations of the Manager, the Fund believes that under current law and regulations it will be taxed as a partnership that is not subject to corporate income tax for federal income tax purposes. However, the Fund has not requested, nor will it request, any ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) as to this status. In addition, you cannot be sure that those representations will continue to be accurate. If the IRS were to challenge the federal income tax status of the Fund, such a challenge could result in (i) an audit of each shareholder’s entire tax return and (ii) adjustments to items on that return that are unrelated to the ownership of shares. In addition, each shareholder would bear the cost of any expenses incurred in connection with an examination of its personal tax return. In addition, the Fund generally could be impacted adversely by proposed changes and future changes in tax laws or tax administration, including changes that might treat publicly traded partnerships like the Fund as taxable corporations. If for any reason the Fund were taxable as a corporation for federal income tax purposes in any taxable year, its income, gains, losses and deductions would be reflected on its own tax return rather than being passed through (proportionately) to shareholders. Its net income would be subject to taxation, reducing cash available for distributions and resulting in distributions being treated as dividends to the extent of current or accumulated earnings and profits. Such a tax reclassification could materially reduce the overall performance and after-tax returns of the Fund, possibly causing a decline in the price of the Fund shares. Items of income, gain, deduction, loss and credit with respect to Fund shares could be reallocated if the IRS does not accept the conventions used by the Fund in allocating Fund tax items—U.S. federal income tax rules applicable to partnerships are complex and often difficult to apply to widely held partnerships. The Fund will apply certain conventions in an attempt to comply with applicable rules and to report income, gain, deduction, loss and credit to Fund shareholders in a manner that reflects shareholders’ share of Fund items, but these conventions may not be in full technical compliance with applicable tax requirements. It is possible that the IRS will successfully assert that the conventions used by the Fund to allocate income to the shareholders do not satisfy the technical requirements of the U.S. tax law and could require that items of income, gain, deduction, loss or credit be reallocated in a manner that adversely affects you. Tax rates and other features under current U.S. federal income tax law may be adversely affected in the future—Under current law, long-term capital gains and ordinary income are taxed to non-corporate investors at maximum U.S. federal income tax rates of 15% and 35%, respectively, through December 31, 2012. Absent further legislation, after December 31, 2012, the tax rate on non-corporate investors’ long-term capital gains will increase to 20% and the maximum tax rate for non-corporate investors’ ordinary income will increase to 39.6%. The tax treatment of the Fund or its shareholders under other provisions of the tax law can be adversely affected by future legislation at any time. Increased Oversight of Foreign Financial Assets—Under the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (“FATCA”) enacted in 2010, foreign financial institutions and non-financial foreign entities and certain U.S. taxpayers holding foreign financial assets will be subject to an enhanced reporting, disclosure, certification, 19 Table of Contents withholding, and enforcement regime. Among other things, foreign financial institutions will be required to enter into disclosure compliance agreements with the U.S. Treasury by June 30, 2013, and non-financial foreign entities will be required to certify their ownership. The general effective date of FATCA is January 1, 2014. Investors should consult their tax advisors concerning the potential impact of FATCA on them. Investors will receive a Schedule K-1 and as a result may incur additional costs—Investors in the Fund receive a Schedule K-1 reporting their allocable portion of the tax items of the Fund. This form is expected to be available by the first week of March following the taxable year it relates to. If there were a delay in making Schedule K-1’s available, it could be more difficult for investors to complete their tax returns in a timely fashion. Investors who seek advice from tax advisors with respect to their Schedule K-1 may incur additional costs in the form of fees. Shareholders are strongly urged to consult their own tax advisors and counsel with respect to the possible tax consequences to them of an investment in the shares. The tax consequences may differ in respect of different shareholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 