Risk Factors Certain information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (“Report”), including information regarding future financial performance and plans, expectations, and objectives of management, constitute forward-looking information within the meaning of Canadian securities laws and forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We refer to all of these as forward-looking statements. A forward-looking statement is not a guarantee of the occurrence of future events or circumstances, and such future events or circumstances may not occur. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They often include words such as “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “intends,” “plans,” “seeks,” “outlook,” “forecast” or words of similar meaning, or future or conditional verbs, such as “will,” “should,” “could” or “may.” The forward-looking statements contained in this Report are based on currently-available information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed below, that could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations (i.e., the “risk factors”). Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. Forward-looking information and statements are based on a number of assumptions which may prove to be incorrect, including, but not limited to, assumptions about: the absence of a material increase in competition within the quick service restaurant segment of the food service industry; the absence of an adverse event or condition that damages our strong brand position and reputation; continuing positive working relationships with the majority of the Company’s franchisees; there being no significant change in the Company’s ability to comply with current or future regulatory requirements; the absence of any material adverse effects arising as a result of litigation; and general worldwide economic conditions. We are presenting this information for the purpose of informing you of management’s current expectations regarding these matters, and this information may not be appropriate for other purposes. Many of the factors that could determine our future performance are beyond our ability to control or predict. Investors should carefully consider our risk factors and the other information set forth in this Report and are further cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements contained in this Report, which speak only as of the date of this Report. The events and uncertainties outlined in the risk factors, as well as other events and uncertainties not set forth below, could cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectation(s) included in the forward-looking statement, and if significant, could materially affect the Company’s business, sales revenue, stock price, financial condition, and/or future results, including, but not limited to, causing the Company to (i) close restaurants, (ii) fail to realize our same-store sales, which are critical to achieving our operating income and other financial targets, (iii) fail to meet the expectations of our securities analysts or investors, or otherwise fail to perform as expected, (iv) have insufficient cash to engage in or fund expansion activities, dividends, or share repurchase programs, or (v) increase costs, corporately or at store level, which may result in increased restaurant-level pricing, which, in turn, may result in decreased customer demand for our products resulting in lower sales, revenue, and earnings. We assume no obligation to update or alter any forward-looking statements after they are made, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by applicable law. Forward-looking statements are based on a number of assumptions which may prove to be incorrect, including, but not limited to, assumptions about: the absence of a material increase in competition within the quick service restaurant segment of the food service industry; the absence of an adverse event or condition that damages our strong brand position and reputation; continuing positive working relationships with the majority of the Company’s franchisees; there being no significant change in the Company’s ability to comply with current or future regulatory requirements; the absence of any material adverse effects arising as a result of litigation; and general worldwide economic conditions. We are presenting this information for the purpose of informing you of management’s current expectations regarding these matters, and this information may not be appropriate for any other purposes. 22 Throughout these risk factors, the words “include,” “including” or words of similar effect mean “include, without limitation” or “including, without limitation,” as applicable. The quick service restaurant segment is highly competitive, and competition could lower our revenues, margins, and market share. The quick service restaurant segment of the food service industry is intensely competitive. Tim Hortons restaurants compete with international, regional, and local organizations primarily through the quality, variety, and value perception of food products offered. Other key competitive factors include the number and location of restaurants, quality and speed of service, attractiveness of facilities, effectiveness of advertising, marketing and operational programs, price, changing demographic patterns and trends, changing consumer preferences and spending patterns or a desire for a more diversified menu, changing health or dietary preferences and perceptions and new product development. Discounting and free sampling activities by our major competitors have intensified. In addition, some of our competitors, particularly in the U.S., have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do, including larger marketing budgets and greater leverage from marketing spend, which may provide them with a competitive advantage. In addition, Tim Hortons restaurants compete within the food service industry and the quick service restaurant segment not only for customers but also for management and hourly employees, suitable real estate sites, and qualified franchisees. If we are unable to maintain our competitive position, we could experience lower demand for products, downward pressure on prices, reduced margins, an inability to take advantage of new business opportunities, the loss of market share, and the inability to attract qualified franchisees. Our growth strategy and other important strategic initiatives may not be successful and may expose us to additional risk. Our growth strategy to a large extent depends on our ability to increase the number of Tim Hortons restaurants through internal growth and potentially through strategic initiatives (such as acquisitions, joint ventures, and alternative business models, such as self-serve kiosks) and increased emphasis (especially outside Canada) on non-standard restaurant development and other initiatives. However, we may not be able to achieve our growth objectives, new restaurants may not be profitable, and strategic initiatives may not be successful and may expose us to various risks. The addition of a number of new restaurants in a market may negatively impact the same-store sales and profitability of restaurants already existing in the market. If our new restaurants are not profitable or if new restaurants negatively affect the profitability of existing restaurants, we may be unable to carry out our business model of franchising the new or existing restaurants, or we may be delayed in doing so, as we could have difficulty finding qualified franchisees willing to participate in our expansion or we may desire that the restaurant reach minimum profitability levels before franchising the restaurant. This could limit our ability to expand or make it harder for us to find qualified franchisees, either of which would likely hurt revenue growth and operating results. We may also need to provide relief and support programs for our franchisees in developing markets as well as expand our financing support programs or extend financing on more generous terms than would be available from third parties, either of which could increase our costs and thus decrease net income. Alternatively, if we have interested franchisees, we may offer the restaurant to a franchisee on an operator or other agreement, which may also result in an increase in franchisee relief and support costs. We have often found that as we continue our progression to franchised restaurants in our developing markets, our franchisee relief and support costs increase, which may result in lower earnings and profits in the short-term. We may also continue to own and operate the underperforming restaurant(s) corporately, which directly affects our sales and earnings. We may also enter markets where our brand is not well known and where we have little or no operating experience. New markets may have different competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns than our existing markets; as a result, new restaurants in those markets may be less successful than restaurants in existing markets. When we enter new regions and markets, we will need to build brand awareness in those markets through advertising and promotional activity, and those activities may not promote our brand as effectively as intended, if at all. For example, our advertising expenditures in the U.S., particularly with respect to television advertising, do not yield the desired leverage across various marketing areas because our regional 23 markets do not overlap to a significant degree, and we have not achieved significant market penetration in all regions. Restaurants opened in new markets may also have lower average restaurant sales than restaurants opened in existing markets, and may have higher construction, occupancy, and operating costs than restaurants in existing markets. Additionally, when expanding into international markets, we may also have difficulty finding suppliers and distributors that can provide us with adequate supplies of ingredients meeting our standards. Sales at restaurants opened in new markets may take longer to reach expected sales and profit levels, and may never do so, thereby affecting our overall financial condition. Our failure to successfully implement growth and various other business strategies and initiatives related to international development may have a negative impact on the operation of our business and may result in increased costs or inefficiencies that we cannot currently anticipate. Expansion into new international markets carry risks similar to those risks described above relative to expansion into new markets in the U.S.; however, some or all of these factors may be more pronounced in markets outside Canada and the U.S. due to cultural, economic and regulatory differences. We may also rationalize and close underperforming stores in order to improve overall profitability. Such closures, however, may be accompanied by impairment charges that may have a negative impact on our earnings. We may also deliberately slow the development of new restaurants in some markets, depending on various factors, including the sales growth of existing restaurants in such markets. Same-store sales is a milestone we monitor, and, among other things, if sales growth falls below our expectations for a prolonged period of time, if we have significant negative cash flows in a market for several years, or if we close restaurants out of the ordinary course, we may be forced to impair assets in affected markets, which could have a negative effect on our earnings. We also intend to evaluate potential mergers, acquisitions, joint venture investments, alliances, vertical integration opportunities and divestitures, which are subject to many of the same risks that also affect new store development. In addition, these transactions involve various other risks, including accurately assessing the value, future growth potential, strengths, weaknesses, contingent and other liabilities and potential profitability of acquisition candidates; the potential loss of key personnel of an acquired business; the Company’s ability to achieve projected economic and operating synergies; difficulties successfully integrating, operating, maintaining and managing newly-acquired operations or employees; difficulties maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; the possibility the Company could incur impairment charges if an acquired business performs below expectations; unanticipated changes in business and economic conditions affecting acquired business; ramp-up costs, whether anticipated or not; the potential for the unauthorized use of the Company’s trademarks and brand name by third parties; the possibility of a breach of contract or spoliation of the business relationship with a third party; the potential negative effects such transactions may have on the Company’s relationship with franchisees; the potential exposure to franchisees and others arising from the Company’s reliance on and dissemination of information provided by third parties; and diversion of management’s and franchisees’ attention from the demands of the existing business. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to complete the desirable transactions, for reasons including restrictive covenants in debt instruments or other agreements with third parties, including the Maidstone Bakeries joint venture arrangements or a failure to secure financing in tight credit markets. Strategic alliances have been and will continue to be a focus for our growth. There can be no assurance that: significant value will be recognized through such strategic alliances; we will be able to maintain our existing strategic alliances; or, we will be able to enter into new strategic relationships in the future. While we believe we could ultimately take action to terminate any alliances that prove to be unsuccessful, we may not be able to identify problems and take action quickly enough and, as a result, our brand image and reputation may suffer, or we may suffer increased liabilities, costs and other financial burdens. Entry into strategic alliances may expose us to additional risks which may adversely affect our brand and business and decrease our revenue and growth prospects. Our co-branding relationship with Cold Stone Creamery has provided positive results and made significant contributions to same-store sales in the U.S. segment during 2009. As a result, the unwinding of our co-branding relationship with Cold Stone Creamery for any reason may negatively impact our U.S. segment. 24 We have developed and plan to implement various strategic plans and initiatives commencing in 2010. Our financial outlook and long-range aspirational EPS targets are based on the successful implementation, execution, and customer acceptance of such plans and initiatives. The failure of any of which could cause us to fall short of achievement of our financial objectives and long-range goals. Food safety and health concerns may have an adverse effect on our business. Incidents or reports, whether true or not, of food-borne illness (such as e-coli, listeria, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, hepatitis A or salmonella); and, injuries caused by or claims of food tampering, employee hygiene and cleanliness failures or impropriety at Tim Hortons or other quick service restaurants unrelated to Tim Hortons could result in negative publicity, damage our brand value and potentially lead to product liability or other claims. Any decrease in customer traffic or temporary closure of any of our stores as a result of such incidents or negative publicity may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business activities subject us to litigation risk that could affect us adversely by subjecting us to significant money damages and other remedies or by increasing our litigation expense. From time to time, we are subject to claims incidental to our business, such as illness or injury relating to food quality or food handling. In addition, class action lawsuits have been filed in the past, and may continue to be filed, against quick service restaurants alleging, among other things, that quick service restaurants have failed to disclose the health risks associated with their products or that certain food products contribute to obesity. These types of claims could harm our brand reputation, making it more difficult to attract and retain qualified franchisees and grow the business. We may also be subject to claims from employees, customers, and others relating to health and safety risks and conditions of our restaurants associated with design, construction, site location and development, indoor or airborne contaminants and/or certain equipment utilized in operations. In addition, from time to time, we face claims from: our employees from time-to-time relating to employment or labour matters, including potentially class action suits, regarding wages, discrimination, unfair or unequal treatment, harassment, wrongful termination, or overtime compensation; our franchisees and/or operators regarding their profitability (which is a present claim against us), wrongful termination of their franchise or operating (license) agreement, as the case may be, or other franchisee relationship matters; taxation authorities regarding certain tax disputes; or, other stakeholders or business partners. We are also exposed to a wide variety of falsified claims due to our size and brand recognition. All of these types of matters have the potential to unduly distract management attention and increase costs, including costs associated with defending such claims. Any negative publicity resulting from these claims may adversely affect our reputation. Our current exposure with respect to legal matters pending against us could change if determinations by judges and other finders of fact are not in accordance with management’s evaluation of the claims. Should management’s evaluation prove incorrect, our exposure could exceed expectations and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If successful, any such claims could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and financial results. With respect to franchisee litigation, see Item 3 “Legal Proceedings.” Our success depends substantially on the value of the Tim Hortons brand and our Canadian segment performance. Our success is dependent to a large part upon our ability to maintain and enhance the value of our brand, our customers’ connection to our brand, and a positive relationship with our franchisees. Brand value can be severely damaged even by isolated incidents, particularly if the incidents receive considerable negative publicity or result in litigation. Some of these incidents may relate to the way we manage our relationship with our franchisees, our growth strategies, our relationships with third parties with whom we enter into strategic alliances, our development efforts in domestic and foreign markets, land use and site and building development for our restaurants (including equipment, environment, and health and safety issues), or the ordinary course of our or our franchisees’ business. Other incidents may arise from events that are or may be beyond our ability to control and may damage our brand, such as: actions taken (or not taken) by one or more franchisees or their employees relating to health, safety, welfare or otherwise; litigation and claims; security breaches or other fraudulent 25 activities associated with our electronic payment systems; illegal activity targeted at us; and incidents occurring at or affecting our strategic business partners, affiliates, or corporate social responsibility programs. Our brand could also be damaged by falsified claims or the quality of products from vertically integrated manufacturing facilities. Consumer demand for our products and our brand value could diminish significantly if any such incidents or other matters erode consumer confidence in us or our products, which would likely result in lower sales and, ultimately, lower earnings and profits. In addition, the Tim Hortons brand is synonymous with our ability to deliver quality food products at value prices. If we are unable to maintain in Canada, or unable to maintain and/or achieve in other markets, an appropriate price/value relationship for our products in the minds of consumers, our ability, by and through our franchisees and independently, to increase or maintain same-store sales may be affected. Our ability to maintain or achieve the appropriate price/value relationship also may be affected by discounting activity of competitors, which can be extremely aggressive. Our financial performance is highly dependent on our Canadian operating segment, which accounted for approximately 86.7% of our consolidated revenues, and the majority of our profit, in 2009. Any substantial or sustained decline in our Canadian business would materially and adversely affect our financial performance. Our distribution operations and supply chain are subject to pressures and risks, many of which are outside our control that could reduce the profitability of our operations. Our distribution operations and supply chain may be impacted by various factors, some of which are beyond our control, that could injure our brand and negatively affect our results of operations and our ability to generate expected earnings and/or increase costs, including: • transportation and/or shipping costs, including but not limited to energy and fuel costs (and/or fuel shortages) for our fleet of trucks and trailers or increased costs from third-party transportation companies that make deliveries to system restaurants from our five distribution centres; • inclement weather, which could affect the cost and timely delivery of ingredients and supplies; • increased food and other supply costs; • the risks of having a single source of supply for certain of our food products, including certain par-baked goods, iced cappuccinos, and other popular food products; • shortages or interruptions in the availability or supply of perishable food products and/or their ingredients, which could affect the availability, quality, and cost of such food products and ingredients, as well as other factors that could affect the quality of products we supply; • potential negative impacts on our relationship with our franchisees associated with the increase of required purchases or prices of products purchased from our distribution business; and • political, physical, environmental or technological disruptions in our own or our suppliers’ manufacturing and/or warehouse plants, facilities, or equipment. See additional disclosure under “Sources and Availability of Raw Materials” in Item 1 of this Report that is incorporated in this section by reference. In the U.S., because we do not provide distribution services to our U.S. franchisees, our U.S. franchisees may not receive the same level of service and reliability as we are able to provide through our distribution business for our Canadian franchisees. Our earnings and business growth strategy depends in large part on the success of our franchisees; actions taken by our franchisees and changes in franchise laws and regulations may harm our business. A substantial portion of our earnings come from royalties and other amounts paid by franchisees, who operated 99.5% of the Tim Hortons restaurants as of January 3, 2010. Our franchisees are independent contractors and, as a result, the quality of their operations may be diminished by factors beyond our control. 26 Some franchisees may not successfully operate restaurants in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements and may not train qualified managers and other restaurant personnel. Any operational shortcoming of a franchise restaurant is likely to be attributed by consumers to our entire system, thus damaging our brand reputation and potentially affecting revenues and profitability. Our principal competitors that have a significantly higher percentage of company-operated restaurants than we do may have greater control over their respective restaurant systems and have greater flexibility to implement operational initiatives and business strategies. Our success will also continue to depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified franchisees. Since we receive revenues in the form of royalties, fees and rents from our franchisees, our revenues and profits would decline and our brand reputation could also be harmed if a significant number of franchisees were to: experience operational failures, including health and safety exposures; experience financial difficulty; be unwilling or unable to pay us for food and supplies or for royalties, rent or other fees; fail to enter into renewals of franchise or license agreements; or experience any labour shortages or significant increases in labour or other costs of running their businesses. In addition, the ability of franchisees to finance the equipment and renovation costs or improvements and additions to existing restaurants, and our acquisition of restaurants from or sale of restaurants to franchisees, are affected by economic conditions, including interest rates and the cost and availability of borrowed funds. A weakening in franchisee financial stability would have a negative impact on our business and may cause us to finance such purchases for our franchisees or, if we elect not to do so or we are unable to do so, our ability to grow our business may be adversely impacted. Although we generally enjoy a positive working relationship with the vast majority of our franchisees, active and/or potential disputes with franchisees could damage our brand reputation and/or our relationships with the broader franchisee group. See also, risk factor “Our business activities subject us to litigation risk that could affect us adversely by subjecting us to significant money damages and other remedies or by increasing our litigation expense” above. Our business is subject to various laws and regulations and changes in such laws and regulations and/or failure to comply with existing or future laws and regulations, or our planning initiatives related to such laws and regulations, could adversely affect us and our shareholders and expose us to litigation, damage our brand reputation or lower profits. We and our franchisees are subject to various international, federal, state, provincial and local laws, treaties and regulations affecting our and their businesses. These laws and regulations include those regarding or relating to: zoning, land use (including the development and/or operation of drive-thru windows), and traffic; health, food, sanitation and safety; labour laws (including significant increases in minimum wage requirements planned for certain provinces in Canada, that will substantially increase our and our franchisees’ labour costs in those provinces); laws preventing discrimination and harassment in the workplace and providing certain civil rights to individuals with disabilities, laws affecting the design of facilities (such as the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and similar Canadian legislation); existing or new regulations, laws, treaties or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, relating to tax matters that may affect our anticipated effective tax rate, operating income (in the context of non-consolidated joint ventures), cash tax payment liabilities, and/or tax reserves, realization of our tax assets, business planning within our corporate structure that have tax implications (including planned reorganizations), ongoing tax disputes, disclosure of tax related matters, our strategic initiatives, and/or the types of programs, projects, and activities we may undertake or desire to undertake in furtherance of our business; tax laws affecting our franchisees’ business; environmental matters; nutritional disclosure and advertising, and regulations regarding the nutritional content; record keeping and document retention procedures; and new and/or additional franchise legislation. With respect to environmental laws and regulations, our operations are governed and impacted by laws, regulations or limitations regarding our management, handling and/or disposal of water resources, air resources, toxic substances, solid waste and other environmental matters, including: • regulations banning drive-thrus or imposing idling restrictions in drive-thrus, which limit our ability to develop restaurants with drive-thrus in certain locations; local building codes, which may require more 27 expensive building materials or restaurant types as well as programs requiring greater use of recyclable materials that can be processed by the waste management industry and/or required contributions to residential blue box programs in Ontario and other provinces in Canada, or similar programs in the U.S. that result in increased costs because certain municipalities do not accept our recyclable packaging; and • regulations relating to the discharge, storage, handling, release and/or disposal of hazardous or toxic substances, particularly with respect to: certain of our operations (e.g., distribution and manufacturing); restaurant locations that were formerly gas stations or that are adjacent to gas stations; and, septic systems with insufficient capacity. In addition, third parties may make claims against owners or operators of properties for personal injuries or property damage associated with releases of hazardous or toxic substances. See additional disclosure under “Environmental Matters” in Item 1 of this Report that is incorporated into this section by reference. In addition, as “sustainability” issues become more prevalent and accepted, there may be increased governmental, shareholder, and other stakeholder awareness and sentiment for more regulation as well as voluntarily adopted programs relating to reduction and mitigation of environmental impacts. There is a possibility that, when and if enacted, the final form of such legislation or any voluntary actions taken by us in this regard would impose stricter requirements or alternative modes of conducting business, which could lead to the need for significant capital expenditures in order to meet those requirements and/or higher ongoing compliance and operating costs. Our participation in or implementation of, or our decision not to participate in or implement, certain types of programs also may have an adverse impact on our brand due to potentially negative publicity or negative perception of stakeholders regarding our business practices and lack of willingness to demonstrate environmental leadership. Such injury to our brand and reputation may, in turn, also reduce revenues and profits. See also our disclosure under “Sustainability and Responsibility” in Item 1 of this Report regarding our planned activities with respect to sustainability and corporate responsibility initiatives. Future changes in tax laws, regulations or treaties, or the interpretation or enforcement thereof could reduce or eliminate the benefits that we expect to achieve from the reorganization, including our ability to take advantage, to a greater extent, of the lower Canadian corporate income tax rate relative to the U.S. income tax rate. For example, there are a number of changes in the law currently proposed by the administration of the President of the United States, and other proposals could follow, which, in each case, could have a negative impact on the expected benefits of the reorganization, if enacted. In addition, additional sales taxes at the federal, provincial, state or local level on products sold by our restaurants resulting from, without limitation, increased sales tax rates, changes to the taxability of our products sold at retail, changes to tax rules applicable to our stores, introduction of new tax systems such as value-added taxes and the harmonization of federal and sales tax systems in Canada, may all result in increased sales taxes collected at retail and could have a material adverse impact on us. It is not possible for us to predict what laws or regulations will be enacted in the future, how existing or future laws and regulations will be administered or interpreted. Compliance with these laws and regulations and planning initiatives undertaken in connection with such laws and regulation could increase the cost of doing business and, depending upon the nature of our and our franchisees’ responsive actions to or planning in connection with such laws, regulations, and other matters, could damage our reputation. Increases in costs impact our profitability and the profitability of our franchisees. Failure to comply with such laws or regulations on a timely basis may lead to cancellation of license, fines, and other corrective action, which could adversely affect our future financial results and have an adverse impact on our brand due to potentially negative publicity regarding our business practices and result in decreased revenues and profits. Similarly, certain international markets where we may seek to conduct our business in the future may pose legal and business challenges due to substantial uncertainty regarding laws and regulation in such jurisdictions. See additional disclosure under “Government Regulations and Affairs” in Item 1 of this Report that is incorporated into this section by reference. 28 Tax regulatory authorities may disagree with our positions and conclusions regarding certain tax attributes and treatment, including relating to our recent corporate reorganization, resulting in unanticipated costs or non-realization of expected benefits. A taxation authority may disagree with certain views of the Company, including, for example, the allocation of profits by tax jurisdiction, and may take the position that material federal income tax liabilities, interests, penalties or amounts are payable by us, in which case, we expect that we would contest such assessment. Contesting such an assessment may be lengthy and costly and if we were unsuccessful in disputing the assessment, the implications could be materially adverse to us and affect our anticipated effective tax rate or operating income, where applicable. Based on the provisions of the Income Tax Act (Canada), the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations promulgated thereunder at the time of our recent corporate reorganization, we anticipated that the reorganization would not result in any material Canadian and/or U.S. federal income tax liability to us. However, there can be no assurance that Canada Revenue Agency (the “CRA”) and/or the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) will agree with our interpretation of the tax aspects of the reorganization or any related matters associated therewith. The CRA or the IRS may disagree with our view and take the position that material Canadian or U.S. federal income tax liabilities, interest and penalties, respectively, are payable as a result of the reorganization. If we are unsuccessful in disputing the CRA’s or the IRS’s assertions, we may not be in a position to take advantage of the effective tax rates and the level of benefits that we anticipated to achieve as a result of the reorganization and the implications could be materially adverse to us. Even if we are successful in maintaining our positions, we may incur significant expense in contesting positions asserted or claims made by tax authorities. Similarly, other costs or difficulties related to the reorganization and related transactions, which could be greater than expected, could also affect our projected results, future operations, and financial condition. We are party to a tax sharing agreement with Wendy’s, which sets forth the principles and responsibilities of Wendy’s and the Company regarding the allocation of taxes, audits and other tax matters relating to periods when we were part of the same U.S. federal consolidated or state and local combined tax filing group. Either we or Wendy’s may be required to reimburse the other party for the use of tax attributes while we filed U.S. consolidated or state and local combined returns, as a result of audits or similar proceedings giving rise to “adjustments” to previously filed returns, in accordance with the terms of the agreement. As several years remain open to review and adjustment by taxation authorities, payments may be made by one party to the other for the use of the other party’s tax attributes. Our operating results and financial condition could be adversely impacted by the current worldwide economic conditions. Our operating results and financial condition are dependent upon discretionary spending by consumers, which may be affected by downward pressure in general economic conditions that could drive down demand for our products and result in fewer transactions at our restaurants. In addition, we have investments of cash in bank deposits and money market funds, which could experience sharp declines in returns or otherwise be at risk depending upon the extent of instability in the credit and investment markets. The current economic downturn may also have negative impacts on businesses in general, including our franchisees and suppliers. We cannot predict the timing or duration of the economic downturn or the timing or strength of a subsequent economic recovery, and many of the effects and consequences of this downturn are currently unknown; any one or all of them could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and/or capital resources. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business. Unforeseen events, including war, terrorism and other international, regional or local instability or conflicts (including labour issues), public health issues (including tainted food or water supply or widespread/pandemic illness such as the avian or H1N1 flu), and natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, or other adverse weather and climate conditions, whether occurring in Canada, the U.S. or abroad, could disrupt our operations, disrupt the operations of our franchisees, suppliers, or customers, or result in political or economic instability. 29 These events could reduce traffic in our restaurants and demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to adequately staff our restaurants, receive products from suppliers, deliver products to our franchisees on a timely basis, or perform functions at the corporate level, and otherwise impede our ability to continue our business operations in a continuous manner consistent with the level and extent of our business activities prior to the occurrence of the unexpected event or events. We rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business, and a disruption or a failure of such networks, systems or technology could harm our ability to run our business. Network and information systems and other technology systems are integral to retail operations at system restaurants, in our distribution facilities, at our own manufacturing facilities, at the Maidstone Bakeries facility, and at our office locations. We also rely heavily on computer systems in managing financial results. These systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer worms, viruses and other destructive or disruptive software, security breaches, catastrophic events and improper or personal usage by employees. Such an event could have an adverse impact on us and our customers, employees and franchisees, including a disruption of our operations, customer dissatisfaction or a loss of customers or revenues. Such an event also could result in expenditures necessary to repair or replace such networks or information systems or to protect them from similar events in the future. In connection with our integrated financial system and our electronic payment solutions, we rely extensively on third-party vendors to retain data, process transactions, and provide certain services. While we make every reasonable effort to ensure that these vendors have appropriate processes and controls in place to make certain that there is continuity of services and protection of data, we have no direct control over the same; consequently, the possibility of failure in such third-party vendors’ systems and processes exists. In such an event, we could experience business interruptions or privacy and/or security breaches surrounding our data. For additional information regarding risks surrounding privacy and/or security breaches, refer to our risk factor “Privacy protection is increasingly demanding, and the introduction of electronic payment exposes us to increased risk of privacy and/or security breaches as well as other risks.” In the third quarter of 2009, we implemented an integrated financial system for the reporting and processing of financial data across numerous departmental and operational areas. This implementation and the conversion of these processes expose us to risk, including risks associated with maintaining and designing internal controls and Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 compliance, as well as corresponding requirements of Canadian securities laws. Initially, we have experienced delays in business processes as new users adjust to utilizing the new financial system, which may impact our relations with our franchisees, vendors and suppliers. There remain certain financial reporting processes to be automated under our enterprise resource planning system in the future, which could also expose us to similar risk during the implementation and conversion phase. Fluctuations in U.S. and Canadian dollar exchange rates can affect commodity prices and our results generally, as well as the price of common shares and any dividends we pay. Our Canadian restaurants are vulnerable to increases in the value of the U.S. dollar, as certain commodities, such as coffee, are priced in U.S. dollars in international markets. We typically do not enter into purchase agreements for coffee or other commodities in excess of one year; however, we do engage in purchasing activity that mitigates, to a certain degree, our exposure to fluctuations in commodity costs, and we do hedge certain exposures to foreign exchange risk. Conversely, our U.S. restaurants are impacted when the value of the U.S. dollar falls relative to the Canadian dollar. Although we have been shifting sourcing for U.S. restaurants for some of our products and supplies to the U.S., our U.S. restaurants are required to purchase many goods from Canadian suppliers. The costs of these goods in U.S. dollars rise when the Canadian dollar increases in value relative to the U.S. dollar. Increases in these costs would affect the profitability of our U.S. restaurants and potentially make it harder for us to expand in the U.S. In addition, relief and support costs for U.S. franchisees would likely increase, adversely affecting our earnings. 30 In addition, the majority of our operations, restaurants, income, revenue, expenses and cash flows are in Canadian dollars and we report our results in Canadian dollars. When the U.S. dollar falls in value relative to the Canadian dollar, any profits reported by the Company’s U.S. business segment contribute less to (or, for losses, do not impact as significantly) our consolidated Canadian dollar earnings because of the weaker U.S. dollar. Conversely, when the U.S. dollar increases in value relative to the Canadian dollar, any profits reported by the Company’s U.S. business segment contribute more to (or, for losses, impact more significantly) our consolidated Canadian dollar earnings because of the stronger U.S. dollar. Canadian dollars drive our earnings per share; accordingly, our earnings per share may be translated into U.S. dollars by analysts and others. Given the foregoing, the value of an investment in our common shares to a U.S. shareholder may fluctuate as the U.S. dollar rises and falls against the Canadian dollar. Our decision to declare a dividend depends on results of operations reported in Canadian dollars, and we declare dividends in Canadian dollars. As a result, U.S. and other shareholders seeking U.S. dollar total returns, including increases in the share price and dividends paid, are subject to foreign exchange risk as the U.S. dollar rises and falls against the Canadian dollar. See Item 5 of this Report for additional information regarding the conversion of dividends. Privacy protection is increasingly demanding, and the introduction of electronic payment exposes us to increased risk of privacy and/or security breaches as well as other risks. The protection of customer, employee, vendor, franchisee and other business data is critical to us. Federal, state, provincial and international laws and regulations govern the collection, retention, sharing and security of data that we receive from and about our employees, customers, vendors, suppliers and franchisees. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy has been increasingly demanding in recent years, and may see the imposition of new and additional requirements. Compliance with these requirements may result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes and the development of new processes to meet these requirements by us and our franchisees. In addition, customers and franchisees have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. If we or our service provider fail to comply with these laws and regulations or experience a significant breach of customer, employee, vendor, franchisee or other company data, our reputation could be damaged and result in an increase in service charges, suspension of service, lost sales, fines, or lawsuits. The introduction of credit payment systems and our reloadable cash card makes us more susceptible to a risk of loss in connection with these issues, particularly with respect to an external security breach of customer information that we or third parties (including those with whom we have strategic alliances) under arrangements with us control. In the event of a security breach, theft, leakage, accidental release or other illegal activity with respect to employee, customer, vendor, franchisee third-party, with whom we have strategic alliances or other company data, we could become subject to various claims, including those arising out of thefts and fraudulent transactions, and may also result in the suspension of credit card services. This could harm our reputation as well as divert management attention and expose us to potentially unreserved claims and litigation. Any loss in connection with these types of claims could be substantial. In addition, if our electronic payment systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make significant investments to fix or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. In addition, we are reliant on these systems, not only to protect the security of the information stored, but also to appropriately track and record data. Any failures or inadequacies in these systems could expose us to significant unreserved losses, which could result in an earnings and stock price decline. Our brand reputation would likely be damaged as well. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could decrease the value of our brand and branded products. The success of our business depends on our continued ability to use our existing trademarks, service marks, and other components of our brand in order to increase brand awareness and further develop branded products in the U.S. and Canadian markets, as well as in international markets in which we may wish to expand. We may not 31 be able to adequately protect our trademarks, and use of these trademarks may result in liability for trademark infringement, trademark dilution, or unfair competition. In addition, in certain jurisdictions outside of the U.S. and Canada, there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of laws and regulations relating to, and the enforceability of, intellectual property and related contract rights. Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to enforce our intellectual property and related contract rights in courts in international jurisdictions. We rely on a proprietary product delivery platform and par-baking technology utilized by our joint venture to support our franchisees’ business and our growth strategies. There are certain patents that the joint venture licenses from a third party, with an option to acquire at nominal cost. However, if a competitor obtains a related patent for, replicates, or more successfully implements the joint venture’s proprietary techniques or technologies, our operations and growth could be harmed, and the joint venture could be forced to defend or attempt to enforce one or more patent-infringement claims or assertions. Our ownership and leasing of significant amounts of real estate exposes us to possible liabilities, losses, and risks. As of January 3, 2010, we owned or leased the land or building for approximately 80% of our 3,560 system restaurants. Accordingly, we are subject to all of the risks associated with owning and leasing real estate. In particular, the value of our assets could decrease, and/or our costs could increase, because of changes in the investment climate for real estate, demographic trends, demand for restaurant sites and other retail properties, and exposure to or liability associated with environmental contamination, as further discussed above. We lease land generally for initial terms of 10 to 20 years. Most leases provide that the rent increases over the term of the lease. Most leases require us to pay all of the cost of insurance, taxes, maintenance, utilities, and other property related costs. We generally cannot cancel these leases. If an existing or future restaurant is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease, including, among other things, paying the base rent, taxes, and common area expenses for the balance of the lease term. Certain leases may limit our ability to terminate our use of the underlying real estate, making it more costly to close undesirable locations. In addition, as leases expire, we may fail to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close restaurants in desirable locations. Failure to retain our existing senior management team or the inability to attract and retain new qualified personnel could hurt our business and inhibit our ability to operate and grow successfully. Our success will continue to depend to a significant extent on our executive management team and the ability of other key management personnel to replace executives who retire or resign. We may not be able to retain our executive officers and key personnel or attract additional qualified management personnel to replace executives who retire or resign. Failure to retain our leadership team and attract and retain other important personnel could lead to ineffective management and operations, which would likely decrease our profitability. Our articles, by-laws, shareholder rights plan and certain Canadian legislation contain provisions that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws, together or separately, could discourage potential acquisition proposals, delay or prevent a change in control, and limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common shares. Our articles of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to issue an unlimited number of preferred shares, which are commonly referred to as “blank check” preferred shares and, therefore, our Board of Directors may designate and create the preferred shares as shares of any series and determine the respective rights and restrictions of any such series. The rights of the holders of our common shares will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred shares that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred shares could delay, deter, or prevent a change in 32 control and could adversely affect the voting power or economic value of the common shares. In addition, our by-laws contain provisions that establish certain advance notice procedures for nomination of candidates for election as directors and for shareholder proposals to be considered at shareholders’ meetings. Furthermore, under these provisions, directors may be removed by majority shareholder vote at special meetings of shareholders. For a further description of these provisions, see our articles of incorporation, by-laws, and Canada Business Corporations Act. Pursuant to our shareholder rights plan (the “Rights Plan”), one right to purchase a common share (a “Right”) has been issued in respect of each of the outstanding Common Shares and an additional Right will be issued in respect of each additional common share issued prior to the Separation Time (as defined below). The purpose of the Rights Plan is to provide holders of our common shares, and our Board of Directors, with the time necessary to ensure that, in the event of a take-over bid (the Canadian term for a tender offer) for our company, alternatives to the bid which may be in the best interests of our company are identified and fully explored. The Rights Plan can potentially impose a significant penalty on any person or group that acquires, or begins a tender or exchange offer that would result in such person acquiring, 20% or more of the outstanding common shares. See Exhibit 4 to this Report for reference to our Rights Plan, which is also described in more detail in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Report. The Investment Canada Act requires that a “non-Canadian”, as defined, file an application for review with the Minister responsible for the Investment Canada Act and obtain approval of the Minister prior to acquiring control of a Canadian business, as defined, where prescribed financial thresholds are exceeded. Otherwise, there are no limitations either under the laws of Canada or in the Company’s articles on the right of a non-Canadian to hold or vote our common shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 