Item 1A. Risk Factors Certain information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (“Report”), including information regarding future financial performance and plans, expectations, and objectives of management, is forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. A forward-looking statement is not a guarantee of the occurrence of future events or circumstances, and such future events or circumstances may not occur. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They often include words such as “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “intends,” “plans,” “seeks” or words of similar meaning, or future or conditional verbs, such as “will,” “should,” “could” or “may.” The forward-looking statements contained in this Report are based on currently-available information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed below (i.e., the “risk factors”). Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and/or operating results. Many of the factors that could determine our future performance are beyond our ability to control or predict. Investors should carefully consider our risk factors and the other information set forth in this Report and are further cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements contained in this Report, which speak only as of the date of this Report. The events and uncertainties outlined in the risk factors, as well as other events and uncertainties not set forth below, could cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectation(s) included in the forward-looking statement, and if significant, could materially affect the Company’s business, stock price, financial condition, and/or future results, including causing the Company to (i) close restaurants, (ii) fail to realize our same-store sales and other financial targets, or otherwise fail to perform as expected, or (iii) have insufficient cash to engage in or fund expansion activities, dividends, or share repurchase programs. We assume no obligation to update or alter any forward-looking statements after they are made, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by applicable law. Throughout these risk factors, the words “include,” “including” or words of similar effect mean “include, without limitation” or “including, without limitation,” as applicable. 20 Table of Contents The quick service restaurant segment is highly competitive, and competition could lower our revenues, margins, and market share. The quick service restaurant segment of the food service industry is intensely competitive. Tim Hortons restaurants compete with international, regional, and local organizations primarily through the quality, variety, and value perception of food products offered. Other key competitive factors include the number and location of restaurants, quality and speed of service, attractiveness of facilities, effectiveness of advertising and marketing programs, price, and new product development. With economic challenges, the price/value proposition is even more critical to consumers. Discounting activities by our major competitors, especially in the U.S. but also in Canada has intensified. In addition, some of our competitors, particularly in the U.S., have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do, including larger marketing budgets and greater leverage due to size from their marketing budgets, which may provide them with a competitive advantage. In addition, Tim Hortons restaurants compete within the food service market and the quick service restaurant segment not only for customers but also for management and hourly employees, suitable real estate sites, and qualified franchisees. If we are unable to maintain our competitive position, we could experience downward pressure on prices, lower demand for products, reduced margins, an inability to take advantage of new business opportunities, the loss of market share, and the inability to attract qualified franchisees. Our ability to increase same-store sales is affected by a number of economic and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, and if we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price may decline. Increasing same-store sales is critical to achieving our operating income and other growth targets. Our ability to grow same-store sales is one of the most important factors determining our future success. Our sales and operating results can vary from quarter to quarter and year to year depending upon various factors, many of which are beyond our ability to control. Some of these events and factors could directly and immediately decrease demand for our products, causing our results of operations to decline precipitously. As the ongoing global economic crisis has broadened and intensified, we expect to face significant challenges in fiscal 2009 that could impact our sales results. If we fail to meet our established sales targets or the expectations of securities analysts or investors as a result, our share price may decline. The significant factors that could affect our ability, by and through our franchisees and independently, to increase or maintain same-store sales, include: • decreased consumer discretionary spending and further downward pressure in general economic conditions that could drive down demand for our products and result in fewer transactions at our restaurants, including but not limited to high rates of unemployment, lack of economic growth and rising costs of consumer goods, lower disposable incomes, lower consumer confidence, higher fuel and other costs, and other events or factors that adversely affect consumer spending, including the ongoing global economic crisis and the possibility of a prolonged recession; any resulting decrease in customer traffic or average value per transaction due to the foregoing will negatively impact our financial performance as reduced revenues result in sales de-leveraging which causes downward pressure on margins and lower operating income; • our inability to maintain our high standards for food quality and improve the speed of service; • deep discounting and other competitive activities in markets where we conduct business; • our inability to maintain in Canada, or maintain and/or achieve in the U.S., an appropriate price/value relationship for our products in the minds of consumers; our ability to maintain or achieve the appropriate price/value relationship may be affected by discounting activity of competitors, which can be very aggressive, and our response or failure to respond to such discounting activity; • our inability to introduce, or lack of customer acceptance of, new product offerings; or, price increases necessary to cover costs of new products and/or higher input costs; 21 Table of Contents • the type, number and location (and changes to the type, number, and location) of competing restaurants); • reports, whether or not true, of food-borne illness (such as e-coli, listeria, avian flu, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, hepatitis A, trichinosis or salmonella), injuries caused by or claims of food tampering, employee hygiene and cleanliness failures or impropriety at Tim Hortons or other quick service restaurants unrelated to Tim Hortons; • increased labour and benefit costs due to competition, increased minimum wage requirements, and/or employee benefits; increased costs due to general inflation, increased energy, fuel, food and other supply costs; and costs of legal and regulatory compliance, which could all result in upward pressure on pricing at the restaurant level, which increased pricing could, in turn, reduce same-store sales if the higher prices result in fewer customers visiting system restaurants; • changing demographic patterns and trends, including neighbourhood conditions and traffic patterns, which may cause current restaurant locations to become unattractive or not as profitable; • changing consumer preferences and spending patterns or a desire for a more diversified menu, particularly if this results in a decreased desire for coffee and baked goods or a demand for food products not sold by Tim Hortons restaurants; • adverse impacts due to changing health or dietary preferences and perceptions, including perceptions of baked goods that contain high levels of fat and sugar as harmful to the health of consumers; • additional sales taxes at the federal, provincial, state or local level on products sold by our restaurants; • natural disasters and unforeseen catastrophic or widespread events affecting the health and/or welfare of large numbers of people in the markets in which our restaurants are located or otherwise causing a catastrophic loss or interruption in our ability to conduct our business; • governmental regulations, including environmental regulations requiring recycling and participation in blue box programs, banning drive-thrus or imposing idling restrictions in drive-thrus, that limit our ability to develop restaurants with drive-thrus in certain locations, as well as local building codes, which may require more expensive building materials or restaurant types; or, negative publicity regarding our environmental business practices or our other corporate social responsibility or sustainability initiatives (see our risk factor “Our business is subject to various environmental laws and regulations, and changes in these laws and regulations, as well as other environmental concerns, may require us to change our business practices and incur additional costs in the future.”) • seasonal effects on demand for Tim Hortons products; • litigation against Tim Hortons, particularly class action litigation by franchisees that could affect our brand reputation; and • global, regional or local political instability or discord, including labour issues, war and terrorism. Our success depends substantially on the value of the Tim Hortons brand and our Canadian segment performance. We believe our brand reputation was built and continues to be based, in large part, on our customers’ perceptions of the quality of our products, high standards for service at our restaurants, the attractive price/value relationship of our products, a trust that price increases generally reflect the need to address higher costs facing the Company and our franchisees, and other key factors reflective of the way we and our franchisees operate Tim Hortons restaurants and the manner in which we corporately conduct our business. 22 Table of Contents Our success is dependent to a large part upon our ability to maintain and enhance the value of our brand, our customers’ connection to our brand, and a positive relationship with our franchisees. Brand value can be severely damaged even by isolated incidents, particularly if the incidents receive considerable publicity or result in litigation. Some of these incidents may relate to the way we manage our relationship with our franchisees, our growth strategies, our development efforts in domestic and foreign markets, land use and site and building development for our restaurants (including equipment, environment, and health and safety issues), or the ordinary course of our or our franchisees’ business. Other incidents may arise from events that are or may be beyond our ability to control, such as: actions taken (or not taken) by one or more franchisees relating to health, safety, welfare or otherwise; litigation and claims; security breaches or other fraudulent activities associated with our electronic payment systems; and incidents occurring at or affecting our strategic business partners, affiliates, or corporate social responsibility programs. For example, our self-serve model and co-branding initiatives could affect our brand given our dependence, in these arrangements, on the operational effectiveness and quality standards of third parties. Our brand could also be damaged by falsified claims or the product quality of products from vertically integrated manufacturing facilities. Consumer demand for our products and our brand value could diminish significantly if any such incidents or other matters erode consumer confidence in us or our products. This would likely result in lower sales and, ultimately, lower earnings and profits. Our financial performance is highly dependent on our Canadian operating segment, which accounted for approximately 92.0% of our consolidated revenues, and all of our profit, in 2008. Any substantial or sustained decline in our Canadian business would materially and adversely affect our financial performance. For additional information regarding risks to our brand, refer to our risk factors “We may have difficulty expanding in the U.S., where our brand is not known outside of limited regional markets, and where competitive conditions and markets differ from those to which we are accustomed” and “Strategic alliances, in both the U.S. and Canada, could affect our operating results or the value of our brand.” Our growth strategy may not be successful and may expose us to additional risk; acquisitions and investments may also expose us to additional risks. We plan to increase the number of Tim Hortons restaurants in Canada and the U.S. through internal growth and potentially through strategic initiatives (such as acquisitions, joint ventures, and alternative business models, such as self-serve kiosks) and increased emphasis (especially in the U.S.) on non-standard restaurant development and other initiatives. However, we may not be able to achieve our growth objectives, new restaurants may not be profitable, and strategic initiatives may not be successful and may expose us to various risks. In addition, we have often found that early in the development of new markets, the opening of new restaurants has a negative effect on the same-store sales of existing restaurants in the market. Historically, this impact has been for a limited duration in most markets until such time as a critical mass of restaurants has been developed in the area to build brand recognition, convenience, and leverage marketing spending, thereby driving more customers to our restaurants; however, there can be no assurance that this strategy will be successful in all of our developing markets. We may also rationalize and close underperforming stores in order to improve overall profitability. Such closures, however, may be accompanied by impairment charges that may have a negative impact on our earnings. We may also deliberately slow the development of new restaurants in some markets, depending on various factors, including the sales growth of existing restaurants in such markets. In addition, in some of our U.S. markets, we have not yet achieved the market presence needed to drive the benefits of penetration (e.g., increased same-store sales) described above. Same-store sales is a milestone we monitor, and, among other things, if sales growth falls below our expectations for a prolonged period of time, if we have significant negative cash flows in a market for several years, or if we close restaurants out of the ordinary course, we may be forced to impair assets in affected markets, which could have a negative effect on our earnings. If we fail to open as many new restaurants as we plan, if the restaurants we open are less profitable than we anticipate or affect the profitability of existing restaurants in the market, if we are otherwise unable to successfully implement our growth strategy, or if strategic initiatives we implement are not successful or impact 23 Table of Contents our relationship with our franchisees, our revenue and profitability may grow more slowly or even decrease. Also, our progress in opening new restaurants from quarter-to-quarter may occur at an uneven rate, which may result in quarterly sales and profit growth falling short of market expectations in some periods. The opening and success of restaurants and strategic initiatives involving restaurant development and/or product offerings depends on various factors, including: • general economic and market conditions, which can affect restaurant traffic, local labour costs and prices we pay for the ingredients and other supplies we use; • changes in consumer confidence, tastes, preferences, and discretionary spending, as well as the extent of consumer familiarity with our brand in new and existing markets; • competition from other quick service restaurants in current and future markets and same-store sales levels at existing restaurants; • our degree of saturation and sales in existing markets, and the identification and availability of suitable and economically viable locations; • the negotiation of acceptable lease or purchase terms for new locations, including rising real estate prices or rising development costs in certain areas of Canada and the U.S.; • the ability to meet development and construction schedules, which is especially dependent on permitting and regulatory compliance and the availability of construction materials and labour; • governmental regulations, including environmental regulations banning drive-thrus or imposing idling restrictions in drive-thrus, which limit our ability to develop restaurants with drive-thrus in certain locations, local building codes, which may require more expensive building materials or restaurant types as well as recycling requirements (e.g., requiring greater use of recyclable materials and/or contribution to the costs of residential blue box programs in Ontario and other provinces in Canada, or similar programs in the U.S.); • increased costs due to stakeholder demand for use of more environmentally friendly building products and construction processes, which may also result in a brand risk should we fail to utilize such products and/or processes; • the availability of qualified franchisees and their financial and other development capabilities; interest rates and costs affecting land and construction, including labour and rental costs; and, the availability of borrowed funds for the Company and its franchisees; • the potential that developers may delay or cancel projects in light of uncertainty in the commercial leasing market or economic conditions generally; or, developers’ inability to finance the development of projects on attractive terms or at all due to the current volatility in the credit markets; • zoning and land use restrictions in areas where we would like to place new restaurants; • our and our franchisees’ ability to hire, train and retain qualified management and operations personnel; and • limitations imposed by various covenants in agreements with lenders and joint venture partners. We may have difficulty expanding in the U.S., where our brand is not known outside of limited regional markets, and where competitive conditions and markets differ from those to which we are accustomed. In 2009, we plan to continue expanding in regional markets in the U.S., primarily in our stronger markets, such as New York, Ohio, and Michigan for growth of standard restaurant locations, and we will adjust certain factors in our standard restaurant development, including reducing the size of restaurants. We also plan to grow 24 Table of Contents by continuing to pursue strategic alliances with third parties for different types of development models and products (including co-branding) and by developing non-traditional business models and locations to further grow our brand by leveraging our “we fit anywhere” concept. This development may take us into new markets and/or markets adjacent to our existing markets. In addition to the risk factors described above with respect to restaurant development generally, certain factors could impact our ability to expand in existing regional or new and/or adjacent markets in the U.S. in particular, and to otherwise implement our growth strategies outlined above, including: • whether we can develop effective initiatives and strategies to drive same-store sales in certain of our existing markets in the current highly competitive operating environment, combined with the impact of lower consumer confidence and discretionary spending levels and slow or no economic growth; • the nature and timing of decisions regarding underperforming markets or assets, including decisions that may result in closures of restaurants and, potentially, impairments in affected markets; and • the success of strategic alliances and various development models, including co-branding initiatives. When we enter new regions and markets, we will need to build brand awareness in those markets through advertising and promotional activity, and those activities may not promote our brand as effectively as intended, if at all. In addition, our advertising expenditures in the U.S., particularly with respect to television advertising, do not yield the desired leverage across various marketing areas because our regional markets do not overlap to a significant degree, and we have not achieved significant market penetration in all regions. Many of the U.S. markets into which we may expand have competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns that differ from our existing markets. We may need to adapt our brand and restaurants to those markets. Those markets may have lower average unit sales and higher construction, occupancy or operating costs than existing Tim Hortons restaurants. Sales and operating profits at restaurants opened in new markets may take longer to reach expected levels or may never do so (e.g., we rationalized underperforming stores in New England during the fourth quarter in 2008). Our failure to generate sufficient same-store sales growth or sufficient cash flows in certain markets and/or closure of underperforming stores in certain markets could result in future impairment charges and restaurant closure costs that reduce our earnings. Also, the addition of a number of new restaurants in a market may negatively impact the same-store sales and profitability of restaurants already existing in the market. If our new restaurants are not profitable or if new restaurants negatively affect the profitability of existing restaurants, we may be unable to carry out our business model of franchising the new or existing restaurants, or we may be delayed in doing so, as we could have difficulty finding qualified U.S. franchisees willing to participate in our expansion or we may desire that the restaurant reach minimum profitability levels before franchising the restaurant. This could limit our ability to expand or make it harder for us to find qualified franchisees, either of which would likely hurt revenue growth and operating results. We may also need to provide relief and support programs for our franchisees in developing markets as well as expand our financing support programs or extend financing on more generous terms than would be available from third parties, either of which could increase our costs and thus decrease net income. Alternatively, if we have interested franchisees, we may offer the restaurant to a franchisee on an operator or other agreement, which may also result in an increase in franchisee relief and support costs. We have often found that as we continue our progression to franchised restaurants in our developing markets, our franchisee relief and support increase, which may result in lower earnings and profits in the short-term. We may also continue to own and operate the underperforming restaurant(s) corporately, which directly affects our sales and earnings. Strategic alliances, in both the U.S. and Canada, could affect our operating results or the value of our brand. As outlined above, strategic alliances have been and will continue to be a focus for our U.S. growth, and we may implement certain of such alliances or initiatives in our Canadian business as well. There can be no 25 Table of Contents assurance that: significant value will be recognized through such strategic alliances; we will be able to maintain our existing strategic alliances; or, we will be able to enter into new strategic relationships in the future. Strategic alliances, including co-branding relationships, with third parties may enable us to increase revenue and brand recognition by providing us additional access to customers and marketing exposure, expanding our sales coverage and increasing the training of our franchisees and their employees. However, entry into such relationships may expose us to additional risks which may adversely affect our brand and business and decrease our revenue and growth prospects. While we believe we could ultimately take action to terminate any alliances that prove to be unsuccessful, we may not be able to identify problems and take action quickly enough and, as a result, our brand image and reputation may suffer. Certain significant risks associated with strategic alliances (including, co-branding), as well as expansion of our current businesses through strategic initiatives (i.e., greater vertical integration in our manufacturing and distribution businesses), include: • the failure to achieve projected economic and operating synergies in connection with an acquisition or expansion of existing business relationships or activities; • we may make capital expenditures and/or implement enhanced operational and financial systems as a result of the acquisition, expansion, or alliance (including ramp-up costs that could be substantial), and this may require additional management, operational, and financial resources; • third parties with whom we may enter into strategic alliances are independent from us and have a significant amount of flexibility in running their operations, and, their franchisees and employees are not our franchisees and employees; consequently, their franchisees and employees may experience difficulties integrating, operating and maintaining our business into their existing business and may not successfully operate our business in a manner consistent with our standards, controls, procedures, and other requirements (or vice versa); also, loss of key personnel could result; • a sudden degradation of the third party’s previously good reputation and brand could negatively affect and damage our brand, including due to insolvency or change in control of the third party; • unauthorized use of our trademarks or a dilution of our trademarks and brand name, or other breach of contract or spoliation of the business relationship with a third party may occur; • our management’s and franchisees’ attention could be diverted from our own business; • potential negative effects on our relationship with our franchisees and other stakeholders could result; and • we may also rely on information provided to us by third parties and disseminate such information to our franchisees affected by such strategic alliances. Although we generally obtain indemnification from third parties with respect to the accuracy of such information, we may have exposure to our franchisees and others who in turn rely on such information in the event that we cannot successfully claim and collect the indemnity. Our distribution operations and supply chain are subject to pressures and risks, many of which are outside our control, that could reduce the profitability of our operations. Our distribution operations and supply chain may be impacted by various factors, some of which are beyond our control, that could injure our brand, cause a loss of revenues and/or increase costs, including: • decreased consumer discretionary spending and other changes in general economic and political conditions driving down demand for our products or affecting the ability of our suppliers to produce products we distribute through our supply chain, including but not limited to job loss, rising costs of consumer goods, higher fuel and other costs; 26 Table of Contents • transportation and/or shipping costs, including but not limited to fuel costs (and/or fuel shortages) for our fleet of trucks and trailers or increased costs of third-party transportation companies making deliveries to system restaurants from our five distribution centres; • inclement weather, which could affect the cost and timely delivery of ingredients and supplies; • the risks of having a single source of supply for certain of our food products, including certain par-baked goods, iced cappuccinos, and other popular food products; a shortage or interruption in the availability of these products could negatively affect our results of operations and our ability to generate expected earnings; • shortages or interruptions in the supply of perishable food products and/or their ingredients, which could affect the availability, quality, and cost of such food products and ingredients, as well as other factors that could affect the quality of products we supply; • price fluctuations in our supplies and commodities, most notably coffee (which is particularly volatile both in terms of price changes and available supply), sugar, and wheat, due to various market factors, including general inflation, seasonal shifts, inclement weather and climate change, alternate uses of certain commodities (e.g., corn for ethanol), increased demand, decrease in supply, and general volatility in international commodity markets; • exchange rate fluctuations that may cause the price of goods to increase for our U.S. or Canadian operations; • potential negative impacts on our relationship with our franchisees associated with the increase of required purchases or prices of products purchased from our distribution business; and, • political, physical, environmental or technological disruptions in our own or our suppliers’ manufacturing and/or warehouse plants, facilities, or equipment, including but not limited to labour disputes, war, terrorist activities, fire, flood, acts of God, contamination, failure to control critical temperatures, etc. The factors set forth above resulting in cost increases could result in increased pressure to raise restaurant-level pricing, which may decrease customer demand for our products. See also “Source and Availability of Raw Materials” in Item 1, which is incorporated herein by reference. Also, in the U.S., because we do not provide distribution services to our U.S. franchisees, our U.S. franchisees may not receive the same level of service and reliability as we are able to provide through our distribution business for our Canadian franchisees. Our earnings and business growth strategy depends in large part on the success of our franchisees; actions taken by our franchisees and changes in franchise laws and regulations may harm our business. A substantial portion of our earnings come from royalties and other amounts paid by franchisees, who operated 99.0% of the Tim Hortons restaurants as of December 28, 2008. Our franchisees are independent contractors and, as a result, the quality of their operations may be diminished by factors beyond our control. Some franchisees may not successfully operate restaurants in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements and may not train qualified managers and other restaurant personnel. Any operational shortcoming of a franchise restaurant is likely to be attributed by consumers to our entire system, thus damaging our brand reputation and potentially affecting revenues and profitability. Our principal competitors that have a significantly higher percentage of company-operated restaurants than we do may have greater control over their respective restaurant systems and have greater flexibility to implement operational initiatives and business strategies. We receive revenues in the form of royalties, fees and rents from our franchisees. As a result, our revenues and profits would decline and our brand reputation could also be harmed if a significant number of franchisees were to: experience operational failures, including health and safety exposures; experience financial difficulty; be unwilling or unable to pay us for food and supplies or for royalties, rent or other fees; or fail to enter into renewals of franchise or license agreements. In addition, the ability of franchisees to finance the equipment and renovation costs or improvements and additions to existing restaurants, and our acquisition of restaurants from 27 Table of Contents or sale of restaurants to franchisees, are affected by economic conditions, including interest rates and the cost and availability of borrowed funds. A weakening in franchisee financial stability would have a negative impact on our business. Our franchise system is also subject to franchise laws and regulations enacted by a number of provinces and states and rules promulgated by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission. Any new or changes to existing legislation or failure to comply with such legislation may negatively affect operations, and could add administrative costs and burdens associated with these regulations, all of which could affect our relationship with our franchisees. Our success is also closely tied to our relationship with our franchisees. Although we generally enjoy a positive working relationship with the vast majority of our franchisees, active and/or potential disputes with franchisees could damage our brand reputation and/or our relationships with the broader franchisee group. See also, risk factor “Our business activities subject us to litigation risk” below. Our business activities subject us to litigation risk. From time to time, we are subject to claims of illness or injury relating to food quality or food handling. In addition, class action lawsuits have been filed in the past, and may continue to be filed, against quick service restaurants alleging, among other things, that quick service restaurants have failed to disclose the health risks associated with their products or that certain food products contribute to obesity. These types of claims could harm our brand reputation, making it more difficult to attract and retain qualified franchisees and grow the business. We may also be subject to claims from employees, customers, and others relating to health and safety risks and conditions of our restaurants associated with design, construction, site location and development, indoor or airborne contaminants and/or certain equipment utilized in operations. In addition, we may face claims from: our employees from time-to-time relating to employment or labour matters, including potentially class action suits, regarding wages, discrimination, unfair or unequal treatment, harassment, wrongful termination, or overtime compensation; our franchisees and/or operators regarding their profitability, wrongful termination of their franchise or operating (license) agreement, as the case may be, or other franchisee relationship matters; or, other stakeholders or business partners. We are also exposed to a wide variety of falsified claims due to our size and brand recognition. All of these types of matters distract management and increase costs, including costs associated with defending such claims. If successful, any such claims could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and financial results. With respect to franchisee litigation, see Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.” Our profitability could decline as a result of fluctuations in U.S. and Canadian dollar exchange rates affecting commodity prices and our results generally. Our Canadian restaurants are vulnerable to increases in the value of the U.S. dollar, as certain commodities, such as coffee, are priced in U.S. dollars in international markets. We typically do not enter into purchase agreements for coffee or other commodities in excess of one year; however, we do engage in purchasing activity that mitigates, to a certain degree, our exposure to fluctuations in commodity costs, and we do hedge certain exposure to foreign exchange risk. See Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Foreign Exchange Risk and Commodity Risk.” Conversely, our U.S. restaurants are impacted when the value of the U.S. dollar falls relative to the Canadian dollar. Although we have been shifting sourcing for U.S. restaurants for some of our products and supplies to the U.S., our U.S. restaurants are required to purchase many goods from Canadian suppliers. The costs of these goods in U.S. dollars rises when the Canadian dollar increases in value relative to the U.S. dollar. Increases in these costs would affect the profitability of our U.S. restaurants and potentially make it harder for us to expand in the U.S. In addition, relief and support costs for U.S. franchisees would likely increase, adversely affecting our earnings. In addition, we report our results in Canadian dollars. Consequently, when the U.S. dollar falls in value relative to the Canadian dollar, any profits reported by the Company’s U.S. business segment contribute less to (or, for losses, do not impact as significantly) our consolidated Canadian dollar earnings because of the weaker 28 Table of Contents U.S. dollar. Conversely, when the U.S. dollar increases in value relative to the Canadian dollar, as it did in late 2008, any profits reported by the Company’s U.S. business segment contribute more to (or, for losses, impact more significantly) our consolidated Canadian dollar earnings because of the stronger U.S. dollar. Our business is subject to various laws and regulations and failure to comply with existing or future laws and regulations, or our planning initiatives related to such laws and regulations, could expose us to litigation, damage our brand reputation or lower profits. We and our franchisees are subject to various federal, state, provincial and local laws affecting our and their businesses. These regulations include: • regulations relating to zoning, land use (including the placement of drive-thru windows), and traffic, which affect the successful development and operation of restaurant sites; • regulations regarding health, food, sanitation and safety, labour laws (including minimum wage, overtime, working conditions, including workplace safety, family leave, citizenship, and other employment matters), laws preventing discrimination in the workplace and providing certain civil rights to individuals with disabilities, laws affecting the design of facilities (such as the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and similar Canadian legislation), and significant increases in minimum wage requirements planned for certain provinces in Canada, that will substantially increase our labour costs in those provinces; • regulations regarding nutritional disclosure and advertising, and regulations regarding the nutritional content; • regulations relating to tax matters that may affect our anticipated effective tax rate, cash tax payment liabilities, and/or tax reserves, business planning within our corporate structure (including planned reorganizations), our strategic initiatives, and/or the types of programs, projects, and activities we may undertake or desire to undertake in furtherance of our business; and, • new and/or additional franchise legislation—see “Our earnings and business growth strategy depends in large part on the success of our franchisees; actions taken by our franchisees and changes in franchise laws and regulations may harm our business,” above. Compliance with these laws and regulations and planning initiatives undertaken in connection with such laws and regulations increases the cost of doing business and, depending upon the nature of our responsive action to or planning in connection with such laws, regulations, and other matters, could damage our reputation. Increases in costs impacts our profitability and the profitability of our franchisees. This could result in increased pressure to raise restaurant-level pricing. Higher pricing may result in fewer customers visiting our restaurants, which will ultimately result in a decrease in our sales revenue. Damage to our brand could have a similar impact of decreased demand for our products. In addition, certain new and existing laws and/or our non-compliance or planning initiatives associated with certain laws, if this were to occur, may negatively impact customers’ perceptions of our Company, our brand, or our products, thereby decreasing consumer demand. Similarly, certain international markets where we currently conduct business or we may seek to conduct our business in the future may pose legal and business challenges in that there is unfamiliarity with our business activities and substantial uncertainty regarding the interpretation and application of laws and regulations, including but not limited to those relating to the maintenance and enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights. See our risk factor immediately below regarding environmental laws and regulations and other related matters. Our business is subject to various environmental laws and regulations, and changes in these laws and regulations, as well as other environmental concerns, may require us to change our business practices and incur additional costs in the future. Our operations are governed by various federal, state, provincial and local environmental laws and regulations. In addition, certain jurisdictions may impose further regulations or limitations in the future on our 29 Table of Contents management of water resources, air resources, toxic substances, solid waste and other environmental matters. Such regulations and limitations currently, or in the future may, include: • regulations limiting vehicle emissions in drive-thrus, anti-idling bylaws, regulating litter, packaging requirements (e.g., requiring greater use of recyclable materials and/or banning or taxing certain of our packaging that is not recyclable in certain areas, such as cups and lids), and recycling (e.g., including requirements to contribute to the cost of residential blue box programs in Ontario, and other provinces in Canada, or similar programs in the U.S.); and • regulations relating to the discharge, storage, handling, release and/or disposal of hazardous or toxic substances, particularly with respect to: certain of the Company’s operations (e.g., distribution and manufacturing); restaurant locations that were formerly gas stations or that are adjacent to gas stations; and, septic systems with insufficient capacity. New laws may be implemented in the future and environmental liabilities may be discovered at our properties that could result in increased compliance costs. Furthermore, failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, particularly in the area of the environment, could result in governmental action or litigation, significant fines or other costs, or damage to our brand reputation, all of which could decrease profits and adversely affect our results of operations. With respect to environmental laws and regulations, see our disclosure under “Environmental Matters” in Part I of this Report that is incorporated into this section by reference. It is not possible for us to predict what environmental laws will be enacted in the future, how existing or future environmental laws will be administered or interpreted, or the amount of future expenditures that we may need to make to comply with, or to satisfy claims relating to, environmental laws. Failure to comply with such laws, rules or regulations on a timely basis may lead to cancellation of licenses, fines, and other corrective action, which could negatively affect our future financial results and have an adverse impact on our brand due to potentially negative publicity regarding our business practices. Such injury to our brand and reputation may, in turn, also reduce revenues and profits. In addition, as “sustainability” issues become more prevalent and accepted, there may be increased governmental, shareholder, and other stakeholder awareness and sentiment for more regulation as well as voluntarily adopted programs relating to reduction and mitigation of environmental impacts. There is a possibility that, when and if enacted, the final form of such legislation or any voluntary actions taken by us in this regard would impose stricter requirements or alternative modes of conducting business, which could lead to the need for significant capital expenditures in order to meet those requirements and/or higher ongoing compliance and operating costs. Such expenditures and costs could be material and adversely affect our results of operations and business. Our participation in or implementation of, or our decision not to participate in or implement, certain types of programs also may have an adverse impact on our brand due to potentially negative publicity or negative perception of stakeholders regarding our business practices and lack of willingness to demonstrate environmental leadership. Such injury to our brand and reputation may, in turn, also reduce revenues and profits. We rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business, and disruptions in these systems could harm our ability to run our business. Computer systems are integral to retail operations at system restaurants, in our distribution facilities, at our own manufacturing facilities, at the Maidstone Bakeries facility, and at our office locations. We also rely heavily on computer systems in managing financial results. These systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events and improper or personal usage by employees. Certain of our financial reporting processes are not part of an integrated financial system, which adds additional labour hours and administrative costs to operate, manage and control these systems. We are working to transition most of these processes to an integrated financial system for the reporting and processing of financial data across 30 Table of Contents departmental and operational areas. The conversion of these systems and processes may expose us to greater risk, including risks associated with maintaining and designing internal controls and Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 compliance, as the data is transitioned and new systems are brought online. Privacy protection is increasingly demanding, and the introduction of electronic payment exposes us to increased risk of privacy and/or security breaches as well as other risks. The protection of customer, employee, vendor, franchisee and other business data is critical to us. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with frequent imposition of new and constantly changing requirements. Compliance with these requirements may result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes and the development of new processes to meet these requirements by us and our franchisees. In addition, customers and franchisees have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations or experience a significant breach of customer, employee, vendor, franchisee or other company data, our reputation could be damaged and result in lost sales, fines, or lawsuits. The introduction of credit payment systems and our reloadable cash card makes us more susceptible to a risk of loss in connection with these issues, particularly with respect to an external security breach of customer information that we or third parties under arrangements with us control. In the event of a security breach, theft, or other illegal activity with respect to employee, customer, vendor, franchisee or other company data, we could become subject to various claims, including those arising out of thefts and fraudulent transactions. This could harm our reputation as well as divert management attention and expose us to potentially unreserved claims and litigation. Any loss in connection with these types of claims could be substantial. In addition, if our electronic payment systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make significant investments to fix or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. In addition, we are reliant on these systems, not only to protect the security of the information stored, but also to appropriately track and record data. Any failures or inadequacies in these systems could expose us to significant unreserved losses, which could result in an earnings and stock price decline. Our brand reputation would likely be damaged as well. Our operating results and financial condition could be adversely impacted by the current worldwide economic conditions. In 2008, economic conditions throughout the world deteriorated sharply in connection with the sub-prime lending crisis, general credit market crisis, collateral effects on the finance and banking industries, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, and liquidity concerns. Although we currently anticipate that cash provided by operations and available borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facilities will provide us with sufficient liquidity through the current credit crisis, the global financial crisis presents additional uncertainties that could also negatively affect our liquidity, including if the counterparties to our revolving credit facilities fail to perform their obligations in accordance with the terms of our agreements. In addition, we have investments of cash in bank deposits and money market funds, which could experience sharp declines in returns or could otherwise be at risk depending upon the extent of instability in the credit and investment markets. We cannot predict the timing or duration of the global economic crisis or the timing or strength of a subsequent economic recovery, and many of the effects and consequences of this crisis are currently unknown; any one or all of them could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and/or capital resources. For additional information regarding current economic conditions and their impact and potential impact on our results of operations and financial condition, refer to risk factor “Our ability to increase same-store sales is affected by a number of economic and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, and if we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price may decline.” Fluctuations in the value of the Canadian and U.S. dollars can affect the price of our common stock and any dividends we pay. The majority of our operations, restaurants, income, revenue, expenses, and cash flows are in Canadian dollars, and our business is primarily managed in Canadian dollars. Although our financial statements are 31 Table of Contents presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, we report results in Canadian dollars and, therefore, Canadian dollar results drive our earnings per share. Our earnings per share may be translated into U.S. dollars by analysts and others. Given the foregoing, the value of an investment in our common stock to a U.S. stockholder may fluctuate as the U.S. dollar rises and falls against the Canadian dollar. Our decision to declare a dividend depends on results of operations reported in Canadian dollars, and we declare dividends in Canadian dollars. As a result, U.S. and other shareholders seeking U.S. dollar total returns, including increases in the stock price and dividends paid, are subject to foreign exchange risk as the U.S. dollar rises and falls against the Canadian dollar. Although the Company declares dividends in Canadian dollars, for persons who hold their shares in street name and for registered holders who are not residents of Canada, we are required to pay our dividend in U.S. dollars. These funds are then distributed to brokers holding shares on behalf of beneficial owners, and to our transfer agent for registered holders. For beneficial holders that are residents of Canada, the brokers may convert the dividend amounts into Canadian dollars based on exchange rates prevailing at the time of conversion. Stockholders ultimately receiving Canadian dollars are exposed to foreign exchange risk from the date of conversion to U.S. dollars until the date that the broker converts the dividend payment back to Canadian dollars. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could decrease the value of our brand and branded products. The success of our business depends on our continued ability to use our existing trademarks, service marks, and other components of our brand in order to increase brand awareness and further develop branded products in the U.S. and Canadian markets, as well as in international markets in which we may wish to expand. We may not be able to adequately protect our trademarks, and use of these trademarks may result in liability for trademark infringement, trademark dilution, or unfair competition. In addition, in certain jurisdictions outside of the U.S. and Canada, there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of laws and regulations relating to, and the enforceability of, intellectual property and related contract rights. Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to enforce our intellectual property and related contract rights in courts in international jurisdictions. We rely on a proprietary product delivery platform and par-baking technology utilized by our joint venture to support our franchisees’ business and our growth strategies. There are certain patents that the joint venture licenses from a third party, with an option to acquire at nominal cost. However, if a competitor obtains a related patent for, replicates, or more successfully implements the joint venture’s proprietary techniques or technologies, our operations and growth could be harmed, and the joint venture could be forced to defend or attempt to enforce one or more patent-infringement claims or assertions. We and/or the joint venture with IAWS may from time-to-time be required to institute litigation to enforce our trademarks or other intellectual property rights, or to protect trade secrets or proprietary techniques and technologies. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect sales, profitability, and prospects regardless of whether we and/or the joint venture are able to successfully enforce these rights. Our ownership and leasing of significant amounts of real estate exposes us to possible liabilities, losses, and risks. As of December 28, 2008, we owned or leased the land or building for approximately 80% of our 3,437 system restaurants. Accordingly, we are subject to all of the risks associated with owning and leasing real estate. In particular, the value of our assets could decrease, and/or our costs could increase, because of changes in the investment climate for real estate, demographic trends, demand for restaurant sites and other retail properties, and exposure to or liability associated with environmental contamination, as further discussed above. 32 Table of Contents We lease land generally for initial terms of 10 to 20 years. Most leases provide that the rent increases over the term of the lease. Most leases require us to pay all of the cost of insurance, taxes, maintenance, utilities, and other property related costs. We generally cannot cancel these leases. If an existing or future restaurant is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease, including, among other things, paying the base rent, taxes, and common area expenses for the balance of the lease term. Certain leases may limit our ability to terminate our use of the underlying real estate, making it more costly to close undesirable locations. In addition, as leases expire, we may fail to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close restaurants in desirable locations. Failure to retain our existing senior management team or the inability to attract and retain new qualified personnel could hurt our business and inhibit our ability to operate and grow successfully. Our success will continue to depend to a significant extent on our executive management team and the ability of other key management personnel to replace executives who retire or resign. We may not be able to retain our executive officers and key personnel or attract additional qualified management personnel to replace executives who retire or resign. Our success will also continue to depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified franchisees and other personnel to operate our restaurants and distribution centres. Failure to retain our leadership team and attract and retain other important personnel could lead to ineffective management and operations, which would likely decrease our profitability. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business. Unforeseen events, including war, terrorism and other international conflicts, public health issues, including tainted food or water supply or wide spread/pandemic illness, and natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, or other adverse weather and climate conditions, whether occurring in Canada, the U.S. or abroad, could disrupt our operations, disrupt the operations of our franchisees, suppliers, or customers, or result in political or economic instability. These events could reduce demand for our products or make it difficult or impossible to receive products from suppliers, or otherwise reduce our ability to continue our business operations in a continuous manner consistent with the level and extent of our business activities prior to the occurrence of the event or events. Our prior ownership by Wendy’s and our agreements with Wendy’s regarding our separation from Wendy’s expose us to potential liabilities. We entered into various agreements with Wendy’s in connection with our separation from Wendy’s that may expose us to liabilities or indemnification obligations under certain circumstances. We also have a right to indemnification from Wendy’s for certain liabilities of Wendy’s under the separation agreements, however, indemnification from Wendy’s may not be sufficient to cover such liabilities, and there is no guarantee Wendy’s would be willing or able to fund such indemnification obligations. Under our tax sharing agreement, we agreed not to engage in certain capital restructurings or other transactions for a limited period of time (which has now elapsed), that could jeopardize the tax-free nature of the spinoff. If we are responsible for any actions that may jeopardize the tax-free nature of the spinoff, we would be exposed to liability to Wendy’s. This could limit our flexibility in entering into desired transactions and could expose us to liability to Wendy’s if the tax-free nature of the spinoff were challenged. We also agreed to indemnify Wendy’s for certain tax and other liabilities under the tax sharing agreement and the master separation agreement. Also under the terms of the tax sharing agreement, Wendy’s has control over most of the Company’s U.S. (and may impact our Canadian) tax decisions for periods ended prior to September 29, 2006, and Wendy’s will have sole authority to respond to and conduct certain tax proceedings and audits relating to that period and to determine the amount of the Company’s liability to or entitlement to payment from Wendy’s. We may not agree with Wendy’s decisions with respect to these matters, and Wendy’s may act in a manner that is not favorable to 33 Table of Contents us. Moreover, under U.S. federal law, each member of a consolidated group is liable for that group’s entire tax obligation. Thus, to the extent that Wendy’s or other members of the group fail to make any U.S. federal income tax payments required by law for periods up through September 29, 2006, we could be liable for the shortfall. Similar principles may apply in other jurisdictions in which we were part of a consolidated return with Wendy’s for tax periods ended on or before September 29, 2006. Although the Company is involved operationally with the TIMWEN Partnership, the Company’s 50-50 joint venture with Wendy’s for the development of Canadian combination restaurants, Wendy’s currently manages the accounting for that partnership, and the Company has limited ability to control or be involved with the accounting processes for this joint venture. In the fall of 2008, Triarc Co Inc. acquired Wendy’s in a stock-swap acquisition to create Wendy’s/Arby’s Group Inc. We cannot predict the nature or the scope of the impact, if any, the change in control resulting from the merger transaction may have on outstanding arrangements between us and Wendy’s. However, as a result of the acquisition, there were significant changes in senior management at Wendy’s, which could impact our ongoing relationships with Wendy’s on the various outstanding transactions and arrangements between Wendy’s and us, including without limitation, ongoing matters relating to the tax sharing agreement. We are not required to pay dividends, and our Board of Directors could decide not to declare a dividend or could reduce the amount of the dividend at any time. The declaration of dividends on our common stock is solely within the discretion of our Board of Directors, subject to limitations under Delaware law stipulating that dividends may only be paid out of capital surplus or net profits for the then current or preceding fiscal year. Our credit facilities also limit our ability to pay dividends to stockholders. Our Board of Directors could at any time decide not to declare a dividend, or could reduce the level of our dividend payments, or we could be prevented from declaring a dividend because of legal or contractual restrictions. The failure to pay a dividend could reduce our stock price. Our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, stockholder rights plan and Delaware state law contain provisions that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to issue up to 100,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the powers, preferences, privileges, rights, including voting rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions on those shares, without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock could delay, deter, or prevent a change in control and could adversely affect the voting power or economic value of the shares of common stock. In addition, certain provisions of the certificate of incorporation, by-laws and Delaware law, together or separately, could discourage potential acquisition proposals, delay or prevent a change in control, and limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. Among other things, these provisions establish a staggered board and establish certain advance notice procedures for nomination of candidates for election as directors and for stockholder proposals to be considered at stockholders’ meetings. Furthermore, under these provisions, directors may be removed only for cause by a majority stockholder vote and special meetings of stockholders may only be called by the chairman of the board, the chief executive officer, or the president or by a resolution duly adopted by a majority of the entire board. The ability of stockholders to call a special meeting is specifically denied. For a further description of these provisions, see our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, and Delaware law. In addition, our stockholder rights plan will impose a significant penalty on any person or group that acquires, or begins a tender or exchange offer that would result in such person acquiring, 15% or more of the 34 Table of Contents outstanding common stock without approval from the board. The board has authorized the issuance of one right for each share of common stock outstanding. Each right allows the holder to purchase from us one ten-thousandth of a share of Series A junior participating preferred stock, par value US $0.001 per share, for $150 (subject to anti-dilution adjustments), once the rights become exercisable. See our certificate of incorporation and stockholder rights plan for additional terms of the preferred stock purchase rights. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 