Risk Factors An investment in the Fund involves a high degree of risk. Investors should be aware of the various risks, including those described below. Investors should consider carefully the risks described below before making an investment decision. Investors should also refer to the other information included in this Annual Report, including the Fund’s financial statements and the related notes and the Fund’s other filings with the SEC. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known by the Fund or not presently deemed material by the Fund may also impair the Fund’s operations and performance. If any of the following events occur, the Fund’s performance could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, the Fund’s net asset value and the trading price of the Fund’s shares may decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. An investment in the Fund involves a high degree of risk. You should not invest in shares unless you can afford to lose all of your investment. Commodity Investment Strategy Risks You may lose all of your investment. An investment in the Fund’s shares is subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of the entire amount that you invest. An investment in the Fund’s shares represents an indirect investment in the commodity futures and forward contracts owned by the Fund, the prices of which can be volatile, particularly over short-term periods. Investments in individual commodity futures and forward contracts and options on futures contracts and forward contracts historically have had a high degree of price variability and may be subject to rapid and substantial price changes. These price changes may be magnified by computer-driven algorithmic trading, which is becoming more prevalent in the commodities markets. The Fund could incur significant losses on its investments in those commodity futures and forward contracts. If the Fund experiences greater losses than gains during the period you hold shares, you will experience a loss for the period even if the Fund’s historical performance is positive. The Fund’s returns over any particular period may be positive or negative. Commodities have high levels of volatility and unpredictability. Movements in commodity prices are outside of the Fund’s control, are extremely difficult to predict and may not be anticipated by the Commodity Sub-adviser. Price movements may be influenced by, among other things: • governmental, agricultural, trade, fiscal, monetary and exchange control programs and policies; • weather and climate conditions; 9 Table of Contents • changing supply and demand relationships; • changes in international balances of payments and trade; • U.S. and international rates of inflation and economic growth; • currency fluctuations; • geopolitical events; • changes in interest and foreign currency/exchange rates; • market liquidity; and • changes in philosophies and emotions of market participants. The commodity markets have experienced periods of extreme volatility. General market uncertainty and consequent repricing risk have led to market imbalances of sellers and buyers, which in turn have resulted in significant reductions in values of a variety of commodities. Similar future market conditions may result in rapid and substantial swings in the valuation of the Fund’s holdings. The changing interests of investors, hedgers and speculators in the commodity markets may influence whether futures prices are above or below the expected future spot price. In order to induce investors or speculators to take the corresponding long side of a futures contract, commodity producers must be willing to sell futures contracts at prices that are below the present value of expected future spot prices. Conversely, if the predominant participants in the futures market are the ultimate purchasers of the underlying commodity futures contracts in order to hedge against a rise in prices, then speculators would normally take the short side of the futures contract if the futures price is greater than the present value of the expected future spot price of the commodity. This can have significant implications for the Fund when it is time to reinvest the proceeds from a maturing futures contract into a new futures contract. If the interests of investors, hedgers and speculators in futures markets have shifted such that commodity purchasers are the predominant participants in the market, the Fund will be constrained to reinvest at higher futures prices which could have a negative effect on the Fund’s returns. Conversely, if commodity sellers are the predominant participants in the market, the Fund will be constrained to reinvest at lower prices which could have a negative effect on the Fund’s returns and may cause it to suffer losses on its long positions. Investing in commodity futures contracts in the energy sector may present more risks than if the Fund had no exposure to such contracts. A downturn in the energy sector could have a larger impact on the Fund than on a fund that does not invest in the energy sector. At times, the performance of commodity contracts in the energy sector may lag the performance of other sectors or the broader market as a whole. In addition, there are several specific risks associated with investments in the energy sector, including commodity price risk, depletion risk (i.e., the depletion of reserves), supply and demand risk, regulatory risk, acquisition risk, weather risk and catastrophic event risk. During a period when commodity prices are fairly stable, the absence of “backwardation” in the prices of commodity futures contracts held by the Fund may cause the price of your shares to decrease. As the futures contracts held by the Fund near expiration, they are replaced by contracts that have a later expiration. For example, a contract purchased and held in March 2016 may have an expiration date in June 2016. As this contract nears expiration, a long position in the contract may be replaced by selling the June 2016 contract and purchasing a contract expiring in September 2016. This process is known as “rolling.” Historically, the prices of some futures contracts (generally those relating to commodities such as crude oil, heating oil and sugar, that are typically consumed immediately rather than stored) have often been higher for contracts with near-term expirations than for contracts with longer-term expirations. This circumstance is referred to as “backwardation.” Absent other factors, in these circumstances, the sale of a long position in the June 2016 contract would be made at a higher price than the purchase of the September 2016 contract, thereby allowing the Fund to purchase a greater quantity of the September 2016 contract. Because the Fund’s strategy is based in part on taking advantage 10 Table of Contents of such “backwardation” situations, the absence of “backwardation” in certain commodities in which the Fund is long could adversely affect the value of the Fund’s portfolio and consequently decrease the value of your shares. Generally, in “backwardation”, market roll yields are positive. Investments in futures contracts will expose the Fund to the risk of temporary aberrations or distortions in the commodity markets. The Fund is subject to the risk that temporary aberrations or distortions in the markets caused by certain events such as war, strikes, geopolitical events and natural disasters will occur that impact commodity prices and negatively impact the value of the Fund’s positions, thereby adversely affecting the value of your shares. Because futures contracts have no intrinsic value, the positive performance of your investment is wholly dependent upon an equal and offsetting loss. Futures trading is a risk transfer economic activity. For every gain there is an equal and offsetting loss rather than an opportunity to participate over time in general economic growth. An investment in shares of the Fund does not involve acquiring any asset with intrinsic value. Overall stock and bond prices could rise significantly and the economy as a whole may prosper while shares of the Fund trade unprofitably. Regulatory developments could significantly and adversely affect the Fund. Commodity markets are subject to comprehensive statutes and regulations promulgated not only by the CFTC but also by self-regulatory organizations such as the NFA. Among other things, the CFTC and the exchanges on which futures contracts are traded are authorized to take extraordinary actions in the event of a market emergency, including, for example, the retroactive implementation of speculative position limits or higher margin requirements, the establishment of daily limits and the suspension of trading. Any of these actions, if taken, could adversely affect the returns of the Fund by limiting or precluding investment decisions the Fund might otherwise make. The regulation of commodity transactions in the U.S. is a rapidly changing area of law and is subject to ongoing modification by government, self-regulatory and judicial action. In addition, various national governments have expressed concern regarding the disruptive effects of speculative trading in the currency markets and the need to regulate the derivatives markets in general. The effect of any future regulatory change on the Fund is impossible to predict, but could be substantial and adverse to the Fund. Daily trading limits imposed by the exchanges and position limits established by the CFTC may adversely affect the Fund. The CFTC and U.S. commodities exchanges limit the amount of fluctuation permitted in futures contract prices during a single trading day by regulations referred to as “daily price fluctuation limits” or “daily trading limits.” Once the daily trading limit has been reached in a particular futures contract, no trades may be made that day at a price beyond that limit or trading may be suspended for specified periods during the trading day. Futures contract prices could move to the limit for several consecutive trading days with little or no trading, thereby preventing prompt liquidation of futures positions and potentially disguising substantial losses the Fund may ultimately incur. Separately, the CFTC and the U.S. commodities exchanges and certain non-U.S. exchanges have established limits referred to as “speculative position limits” or “accountability levels” on the maximum net long or short futures positions that any person, including the Fund, may hold or control in contracts traded on such exchanges. In October 2011, the CFTC adopted final regulations pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) that would have imposed new position limits on 28 individual agricultural, metal and energy commodity futures and options contracts and on swaps that are economically equivalent to such contracts in order to prevent excessive speculation and manipulation in the commodity markets. On September 28, 2012, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia vacated the new position limit regulations and remanded the matter to the CFTC for further consideration consistent with the court’s opinion. The CFTC originally appealed the court’s decision, but in November 2013, the CFTC withdrew its appeal and re-proposed position limit regulations substantially as outlined above, with a few modifications. In addition, the CFTC proposed regulations that would expand certain exemptions from aggregation of accounts of related parties for these purposes. The initial public comment period for these proposed regulations closed on 11 Table of Contents February 10, 2014. However, since that date, the CFTC has reopened the public comment period several times and has held public meetings to discuss certain position limit and aggregation issues. It remains to be seen whether the CFTC will modify the proposed regulations in response to public comments. The CFTC’s existing position limit regulations require that a trader aggregate all positions in accounts over which the trader controls trading. However, a trader is not required to aggregate positions in multiple accounts or commodity pools if such trader (or its applicable divisions/subsidiaries) qualifies as an “independent account controller” under applicable CFTC regulations and avails itself of the independent account controller exemption under such regulations. In February 2013, Gresham NTA began operating under the independent account controller exemption such that Gresham NTA is not required to aggregate its positions with Gresham’s other division. The re-proposed regulations would maintain the independent account controller exemption. However, if the CFTC does not adopt or renew the independent account controller exemption, or if the exemption were modified or otherwise unavailable, Gresham NTA would be required to aggregate its positions with Gresham LLC’s other division for purposes of the CFTC’s position limits regulations. In that case, it is possible that investment decisions of the Commodity Sub-adviser would be modified and that positions held by the Fund would have to be liquidated to avoid exceeding such position limits, potentially resulting in substantial losses to the Fund and the value of your investment. In addition, failure to comply with the requirements of the independent account controller exemption could lead to an enforcement proceeding against Gresham LLC and could adversely affect the Fund. Generally, current speculative position limits in the physical delivery markets are set at a stricter level during the spot month (that is, the month when the futures contract matures and becomes deliverable) versus the limits set for all other months. If the Manager determines that the Fund’s trading may be approaching any of these speculative position limits, the Fund may reduce its trading in that commodity or trade in other commodities. The re-proposed regulations are extremely complex and, if ultimately implemented, whether in their current proposed form or an alternative form, may require further guidance and interpretation by the CFTC to determine in all respects how they apply to the Fund. Current or potential future position limits regulations could negatively impact the full implementation of the Fund’s investment strategy, including the Fund’s ability to reinvest in additional futures contracts and options on futures contracts and forward contracts. Any deflation or unanticipated changes in inflation may negatively affect the expected future spot price of underlying commodities. Deflation or unanticipated changes in the rate of inflation may result in changes in the future spot price of the underlying commodities to which the Fund’s investments in futures contracts relate, which could negatively affect the Fund’s profitability and result in potential losses. In addition, reduced economic growth may lead to reduced demand for the underlying commodities and put downward pressure on future spot prices, adversely affecting the Fund’s operations and profitability. Options Strategy Risks There can be no assurance that the Fund’s options strategy will be successful. The Fund uses options on commodity futures and forward contracts to seek to enhance the Fund’s risk-adjusted total returns. The Fund’s use of options, however, may not provide any, or only partial, protection from adverse commodity price changes. In the event the Conversion occurs, the Fund will no longer employ an option writing strategy. Specific price movements of the commodities or futures contracts underlying an option cannot be accurately predicted. There may be imperfect correlation between the changes in the market value of the futures contracts and the corresponding options contracts held by the Fund. Accordingly, the return performance of the Fund’s commodity futures and forward contracts may not parallel the performance of the commodities or indices that serve as the basis for the options bought or sold by the Fund; this basis risk may reduce the Fund’s overall returns. Investing in options is volatile and requires an accurate assessment of the market and the underlying instrument. Factors such as increased or reduced volatility, limited dollar value traded and timing of placing and 12 Table of Contents executing orders may preclude the Fund from achieving the desired results of the options strategy and could affect the Fund’s ability to generate income and gains and limit losses. Because of the volatile nature of the commodities markets, writing (selling) commodity options involves a high degree of risk. The Fund may forego gains (i.e., capital appreciation) above the option exercise price on up to approximately 50% of its commodity futures and forward contracts as a result of selling “out-of-the-money” commodity call options. The Fund writes commodity call options with terms up to one year that may be up to 20% “out-of-the-money” on a continual basis on up to approximately 50% of the notional value of each of its commodity futures and forward contract positions that, in Gresham’s determination, have sufficient option trading volume and liquidity. As the writer of a call option, the Fund sells, in exchange for receipt of a premium, the right to any appreciation in the value of the futures or forward contract over a fixed price on or before a certain date in the future. Accordingly, the Fund is effectively limiting its potential for appreciation to the amount the option is “out-of-the-money” during the option term on up to approximately 50% of the notional value of its portfolio invested in commodity futures and forward contract positions. As commodity prices change, an option that was out-of-the-money when written may subsequently become “in-the-money,” limiting the Fund’s participation in gains related to the underlying futures contract. The Fund may incur put premium costs without benefiting from its investment in commodity put options. The Fund does not currently intend to purchase put options and therefore will not incur put premium costs. In the future, however, the Fund may purchase commodity put options on all or substantially all of the notional value of its commodity futures and forward contract positions. As a holder of a put option, the Fund, in exchange for payment of a premium, has the right to receive from the seller of the commodity put option, if the current price is lower than the exercise price, the difference between the put exercise price and the current price of the underlying commodity futures or forward contract on or before a specified date (in the case of “American-style” options, on or before the expiration date or, in the case of “European-style” options, at the expiration date). If the price of the commodity futures or forward contract is greater than the exercise price of the put option upon expiration, then the Fund will have incurred the cost of the option but not have received any benefit from its purchase. In addition, because the Fund generally will purchase commodity put options that are substantially out-of-the-money, the Fund will not be protected against, and will bear the loss associated with, a market decline down to the exercise price of the option. Risks Related to an Exchange Listing NYSE MKT may halt trading in the shares which would adversely impact your ability to sell shares. The Fund’s shares are currently listed for trading on the NYSE MKT under the ticker symbol “CFD.” Trading in shares may be halted due to market conditions or, in light of the NYSE MKT rules and procedures, for reasons that, in the view of the NYSE MKT, make trading in shares inadvisable. In addition, trading is subject to trading halts caused by extraordinary market volatility pursuant to “circuit breaker” rules that require trading to be halted for a specified period based on a specified market decline. There can be no assurance that the requirements necessary to maintain the listing of the shares will continue to be met or will remain unchanged. If you buy or sell shares in the secondary market, you will incur customary brokerage commissions and charges and may pay some or all of the spread between the bid and the offered price in the secondary market on each leg of a roundtrip (purchase and sale) transaction. In times of severe market disruption or low trading volume in the Fund’s shares, this spread can increase significantly. The lack of an active trading market for shares may result in losses on your investment at the time of disposition of your shares. There can be no guarantee that an active trading market for the shares will be maintained. If you need to sell your shares at a time when no active market for them exists, the price you receive for your shares, assuming that you are able to sell them, likely will be lower than that you would receive if an active market did exist. 13 Table of Contents Commodity Sub-adviser Risks Past performance is no assurance of future results. The Fund’s performance to date is due in part to the proprietary commodity investment methodology employed by Gresham. Gresham bases its investment decisions on three inputs: (i) systematic calculations of the values of global commodity production; (ii) total U.S. dollar trading volume on commodity futures and forwards exchanges; and (iii) global import/export trade values. Although the Manager does not anticipate a change in the Commodity Sub-adviser, any subsequent commodity sub-advisor to the Fund may employ a different commodity investment methodology than Gresham. Gresham’s proprietary methodology does not take into account unanticipated world events that may cause losses to the Fund. In any event, past performance does not assure future results. Descriptions of the Commodity Sub-adviser’s strategies may not be applicable in the future. The Commodity Sub-adviser may make material changes to the investment strategy it uses in investing the Fund’s assets with the consent of the Manager, who has the sole authority to authorize any material changes. If this happens, the descriptions in this document would no longer be accurate or useful. You will be informed of any changes to the Commodity Sub-adviser’s strategy that the Manager deems to be material; however, you may not be notified until after a change occurs. Non-material changes may be made by the Commodity Sub-adviser without the Manager’s consent. Such potential changes may nevertheless affect the Fund’s performance. The Manager currently intends to make certain changes in strategy if the proposed Conversion of the Fund is approved and implemented. See “Regulatory and Operating Risks —The Conversion of the Fund may not occur.” Speculative position limits and daily trading limits may reduce profitability and result in substantial losses. All accounts owned or managed by a commodity trading advisor, such as the Commodity Sub-adviser, its principals and its affiliates are typically combined for speculative position limit purposes unless an exemption from aggregation is available. It is possible that the Commodity Sub-adviser will approach or reach position limits for accounts managed within the Gresham NTA division, irrespective of the independent account controller exemption. If so, the Commodity Sub-adviser may have a conflict of interest with respect to allocating limited positions among various accounts it manages. Further, the investment decisions of the Commodity Sub-adviser may be modified to avoid exceeding regulatory “position limits,” potentially subjecting the Fund to substantial losses and forcing the Fund to forego certain opportunities. The Commodity Sub-adviser may have to reduce the size of positions that would otherwise be taken for the Fund, liquidate commodity futures contracts at disadvantageous times or prices, or not trade in certain markets on behalf of the Fund in order to avoid exceeding such limits. Modification of trades that would otherwise be made by the Fund, if required, could adversely affect the Fund’s operations as well as profitability. In addition, a violation of speculative position limits by the Commodity Sub-adviser could lead to regulatory or self-regulatory action resulting in mandatory liquidation of certain positions held by the Commodity Sub-adviser on behalf of its accounts. There can be no assurance that the Commodity Sub-adviser will liquidate positions held on behalf of all the Commodity Sub-adviser’s accounts, including the Commodity Sub-adviser’s own accounts, in a proportionate manner. In the event the Commodity Sub-adviser chooses to liquidate a disproportionate number of positions held on behalf of the Fund at unfavorable prices, the Fund may incur substantial losses. Risk that the Fund’s Shares May Trade at a Discount to Net Asset Value There is a risk that the Fund’s shares may trade at prices other than the Fund’s net asset value per share. It is anticipated that the shares will trade in the secondary market at prices that may differ to varying degrees from the net asset value of the shares. The net asset value of each share will change as fluctuations occur in the market value of the Fund’s portfolio. Investors should be aware that the public trading price of a share may be different from the net asset value of a share and that shares may trade at a discount from their net asset value (which could be significant). The price difference may be due to the fact that supply and demand forces at work in the secondary trading market for shares are not necessarily the same as the forces influencing the prices of the commodity futures contracts and other instruments held by the Fund at any point in time. 14 Table of Contents Other Risks of the Fund’s Investment Strategy The Fund may engage in frequent trading of its portfolio investments, or “Portfolio Turnover”. A portfolio turnover rate of 200%, for example, is equivalent to the Fund buying and selling all of its component instruments two times during the course of a year. A high portfolio turnover rate could result in high brokerage costs for the Fund. The Fund’s investment strategy of frequently rolling futures contracts will cause it to have a much higher portfolio turnover rate. An investment in the Fund may not necessarily diversify an investor’s overall portfolio and may exacerbate losses. The investment performance of commodities has shown little long-term historical correlation to the performance of other asset classes such as U.S. equities and U.S. bonds. Little correlation means that there is a low statistical relationship between the performance of commodity investments, on the one hand, and U.S. equities and U.S. bonds, on the other hand. Because there is little long-term historical correlation, the Fund cannot be expected to be automatically profitable during unfavorable periods in the stock or bond markets, or vice versa. If, during a particular period of time, the Fund’s performance moves in the same general direction as the other financial markets or the Fund does not perform successfully relative to overall commodity markets, you may obtain little or no diversification benefits during that period from an investment in the Fund’s shares. In such a case, the Fund may have no gains to offset your losses from such other investments, your losses therefore may be exacerbated as you may suffer losses on your investment in the Fund at the same time as losses on your other investments increase. There may be a loss on investments in short-term debt securities. When the Fund purchases a futures contract, the Fund is required to deposit with its futures commission merchant only a portion of the value of the contract. This deposit is known as “initial margin.” If and when the market moves against the position, the Fund is required to make additional deposits known as “variation margin.” The Fund invests its assets, other than the amount of margin required to be maintained by the Fund, in cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and other short-term, high grade debt securities. The value of debt securities generally moves inversely with movements in interest rates (declining as interest rates rise). The value of debt securities might also decline if the credit quality of the issuer deteriorates, or if the issuer defaults on its obligations. If the Fund is required to sell short-term debt securities before they mature when the value of the securities has declined, the Fund will realize a loss. This loss may adversely impact the price of the Fund’s shares. Daily disclosure of portfolio holdings could allow replication of the Fund’s portfolio and could have a negative effect on the Fund’s holdings. Because the Fund’s total portfolio holdings are disclosed on a daily basis, other investors may attempt to replicate the Fund’s portfolio or otherwise use the information in a manner that could have a negative effect on the Fund’s individual portfolio holdings and the Fund’s portfolio as a whole. Continuing effects of financial crisis. The financial crisis in the U.S. and global economies (including the European sovereign debt crisis) has resulted, and may continue to result, in an unusually high degree of volatility in the financial markets, both domestic and foreign. Liquidity in some markets has decreased and credit has become scarcer worldwide. Regulatory changes, including the Dodd-Frank Act and the introduction of new international capital and liquidity requirements under Basel III, may cause lending activity within the financial services sector to be constrained for several years as Basel III rules phase in and rules and regulations are promulgated and interpreted under the Dodd-Frank Act. In response to the crisis, the U.S. and other governments and the Federal Reserve and certain foreign central banks have taken steps to support financial markets. Withdrawal of this support (even when anticipated and done gradually), failure of efforts in response to the crisis, or investor perception that such efforts are not succeeding, could adversely impact the value and liquidity of certain securities and futures contracts. In addition, since 2010, the risks of investing in certain foreign government debt have increased dramatically as a result of the European debt crisis, which began in Greece and spread to various other European countries. These debt crises and the ongoing efforts of governments around the world to address these debt crises have also 15 Table of Contents resulted in increased volatility and uncertainty in the global financial markets. It is impossible to predict the effects of these or similar events in the future on the Fund, though it is possible that these or similar events could have a significant adverse impact on the value and risk of securities and commodities held by the Fund. In addition, global economies and financial markets are becoming increasingly interconnected, which increases the possibilities that conditions in one country or region might adversely impact securities and commodities in a different country or region. Risk of Investing in Non-U.S. Markets Investing in non-U.S. markets will expose the Fund to additional credit and regulatory risk. The Fund may invest in commodity futures and forward contracts and options on commodity futures and forward contracts in non-U.S. markets. Some non-U.S. markets present risks because they are not subject to the same degree of regulation as their U.S. counterparts. None of the SEC, CFTC, NFA or any domestic exchange regulate activities of any foreign boards of trade or exchanges, including the execution, delivery and clearing of transactions, nor do they have the power to compel enforcement of the rules of a foreign board of trade or exchange or of any applicable non-U.S. laws or regulations. Similarly, the rights of market participants, such as the Fund, in the event of the insolvency or bankruptcy of a non-U.S. exchange or broker are also likely to be more limited than in the case of U.S. exchanges or brokers. As a result, in these markets, the Fund would have less legal and regulatory protection than it does when it invests domestically. Investing through non-U.S. exchanges is subject to the risks presented by exchange controls, expropriation, increased tax burdens and exposure to local economic declines and political instability. An adverse development with respect to any of these variables could reduce the profit or increase the loss on investments of the Fund in the affected international markets. Regulatory and Operating Risks The shares are not federally insured. The shares do not represent a deposit or obligation of, and are not guaranteed or endorsed by, any bank or other insured depository institution, and are not federally insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Federal Reserve Board or any other governmental agency. The Conversion of the Fund may not occur. On December 19, 2014, the Fund issued a press release announcing that the Manager had approved a plan to convert the Fund into an open-end ETF. The purpose of the Conversion is to seek a closer alignment between the Fund’s share price and net asset value. On June 30, 2015, at the 2015 annual meeting of shareholders of the Fund, shareholders approved a proposal for the approval and adoption of a third amendment and restatement of the current Second Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of the Fund, which will allow the Fund to effect the Conversion. The Conversion will only become effective upon receiving necessary regulatory clearance, including the adoption of a new exchange rule pursuant to which the Fund’s shares will trade following the Conversion. There can be no assurance as to when, or if, the Conversion actually will occur, and if it does occur, that it will achieve its stated purpose. In the event the Conversion does not occur, the Fund’s market price may fall, irrespective of the Fund’s performance. The Fund is not a regulated investment company. Unlike certain other Nuveen Investments-sponsored funds, the Fund is not, and after the planned Conversion will not be, a mutual fund, a closed-end fund, or any other type of investment company within the meaning of the 1940 Act. Accordingly, you do not have the protections afforded by that statute which, among other things, regulates the relationship between the investment company and its investment adviser and mandates certain authority to be held by the board of directors of an investment company. The value of the Fund’s shares could decrease if the Fund’s trading methodologies fail to produce the desired results or unanticipated operational or trading problems occur. There may be unanticipated problems or issues with respect to the trading and operational procedures of the Fund that could have a material adverse effect on an investment in the shares. In addition, there can be no assurance that the trading methodologies employed by the Fund will deliver the desired results. 16 Table of Contents Conflicts of interest could adversely affect the Fund. There are conflicts of interest in the structure and operation of the Fund. The Manager has sole authority to manage the Fund, and its interests may conflict with those of Fund shareholders. For example, the Manager’s fees are based on the Fund’s net assets, which could provide an incentive for the Manager to reduce or suspend distributions (if any) by the Fund. In addition, the Collateral Sub-adviser and Commodity Sub-adviser are affiliates of the Manager. Each Sub-adviser may encounter conflicts between the interests of the Fund and its other clients. Further, a conflict of interest may also arise when the Commodity Sub-adviser approaches or reaches position limits with respect to futures positions established for the benefit of the Fund and fails to allocate limited contracts available among other accounts it manages or, alternatively, liquidates positions held by other accounts in a disproportionate manner. Although the Fund, the Manager and the Sub-advisers have not established formal procedures to resolve potential conflicts of interest related to managing the investments and operations of the Fund, the Manager and the Sub-advisers have adopted codes of ethics in recognition of their fiduciary obligations to clients, including the Fund, and in accordance with applicable securities and commodities laws and regulations. Each of the Manager and the Sub-advisers resolve conflicts of interest as they arise based on its judgment and analysis of the particular conflict. The Manager and the Sub-advisers seek to resolve all potential conflicts in a manner that is fair and equitable to the Fund and its shareholders over time. However, it is possible that the Manager and/or the Sub-advisers could resolve a potential conflict in a manner that is not in the best interest of the Fund or its shareholders. Departure of key personnel could adversely affect the Fund. In managing and directing the Fund’s activities and affairs, the Manager relies heavily on Gresham LLC, which has a relatively small number of personnel. If any of Jonathan S. Spencer, President and Chief Investment Officer of Gresham LLC, or Susan Wager and Randy Migdal, the Fund’s portfolio managers, were to leave Gresham LLC or be unable to carry out their present responsibilities, it could have an adverse effect on the Fund’s management. In addition, should market conditions deteriorate or for other reasons, Nuveen Investments, the Manager, the Collateral Sub-adviser and the Commodity Sub-adviser may need to implement cost reductions in the future which could make the retention of qualified and experienced personnel more difficult and could lead to personnel turnover. Shareholders have limited voting rights, and the Independent Committee has certain limited duties and powers, and neither will be able to affect management of the Fund regardless of performance. Unlike the holder of capital stock in an investment company, Fund shareholders have limited voting rights or other means to control or affect the Fund’s business. The Fund also does not have a board with the ability to control the management and operation of the Fund that would be typical of a board of directors of a corporation. In addition, the powers and duties of the Independent Committee are very limited with respect to the Fund. The Independent Committee’s sole powers are (i) to terminate for cause the Manager of the Fund (which, under the Trust Agreement, will automatically cause the Fund to terminate and be liquidated if at the time there is not a remaining Manager and shareholders have not voted to elect a replacement Manager), and (ii) to serve the audit committee and nominating committee functions of the Fund. The Independent Committee, unlike the board of directors of an investment company, does not have the power to cause the Fund to change its investment objective or policies, effect changes to operations, approve the advisory fees of the Manager or replace the Manager or Sub-advisers. Rather, the power to determine the Fund’s policies and direct its operations is conferred on the Manager. Thus, Fund shareholders do not benefit from the protection of their interests afforded to registered investment companies under the 1940 Act through the existence of an independent board of directors with extensive powers to control the operations of the company. Therefore, shareholders to a large extent are dependent on the abilities, judgment and good faith of the Manager in exercising its wide-ranging powers over the Fund, limited solely by the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing applicable to the Manager in its relations with the Fund and its shareholders. If the Manager voluntarily withdraws or is removed by a vote of shareholders and shareholders have not voted to elect a replacement Manager, the Fund will terminate and will liquidate its assets pursuant to the Trust Agreement. The Manager may not be removed by Fund shareholders except upon approval by the affirmative vote of the holders of over 50% of the outstanding shares (excluding shares owned by the Manager and its affiliates), subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. Any removal of the Manager by Fund shareholders or 17 Table of Contents by the Independent Committee (upon 60 days written notice and under certain limited circumstances) will result in the liquidation of the Fund if at the time there is not a remaining manager unless a successor manager is appointed as provided in the Trust Agreement. Thus, it is extremely unlikely that Fund shareholders will be able to make any changes in the management of the Fund, even if performance is poor. Fees and expenses are charged regardless of Fund performance and may result in depletion of assets. Regardless of its investment performance, the Fund pays brokerage commissions, over-the-counter dealer spreads, management fees and operating and extraordinary expenses. A management fee will be paid by the Fund even if the Fund experiences a net loss for the year. Consequently, the expenses of the Fund could, over time, result in significant losses to your investment therein, including the loss of all of your investment. You may not achieve profits, significant or otherwise. The value of the shares may be adversely affected if the Fund is required to indemnify the members of the Independent Committee or the Manager. Under the Trust Agreement, each of the members of the Independent Committee and the Manager has the right to be indemnified for any liability or expense it incurs absent actual fraud or willful misconduct. That means that the Manager may require the assets of the Fund to be sold in order to cover losses or liability suffered by it or by the members of the Independent Committee. Any sale of that kind would reduce the net asset value of the Fund and the value of the shares. The failure of a clearing broker to comply with financial responsibility and customer segregation rules and/or the bankruptcy of one of the Fund’s clearing brokers could result in a total loss of Fund assets. Under current CFTC regulations, a clearing broker maintains customers’ assets in a bulk segregated account. There is a risk that assets deposited by the Fund with the clearing broker as margin for futures contracts may, in certain circumstances, be used to satisfy losses of other clients of the Fund’s clearing broker or the clearing broker’s own payment obligations. In addition, the assets of the Fund may not be fully protected in the event of that clearing broker’s bankruptcy, as the clearing broker’s customers, such as the Fund, are entitled to recover, even in respect of property specifically traceable to them, only a pro rata share of all property, if any, available for distribution to all of that clearing broker’s customers. The Fund also may be subject to the risk of the failure of, or delay in performance by, any exchanges and their clearing organizations, if any, on which commodity interest contracts are traded. Similarly, the CEA requires a clearing organization approved by the CFTC as a derivatives clearing organization to segregate all funds and other property received from a clearing member’s clients in connection with domestic futures and options contracts from any funds held at the clearing organization to support the clearing member’s proprietary trading. Nevertheless, all customer funds held at a clearing organization in connection with any futures or options contracts are held in a commingled omnibus account and are not identified to the name of the clearing member’s individual customers. With respect to futures and options contracts, a clearing organization may use assets of a non-defaulting customer held in an omnibus account at the clearing organization to satisfy payment obligations of a defaulting customer of the clearing member to the clearing organization. As a result, in the event of a default of the clearing broker’s other clients or the clearing broker’s failure to extend its own funds in connection with any such default, the Fund would not be able to recover the full amount of assets deposited by the clearing broker on behalf of the Fund with the clearing organization. The clearing brokers may be subject to legal or regulatory proceedings in the ordinary course of their business. A clearing broker’s involvement in costly or time-consuming legal proceedings may divert financial resources or personnel away from the clearing broker’s trading operations, which could impair the clearing broker’s ability to successfully execute and clear the Fund’s trades. An investment in the shares may be adversely affected by competition from other methods of investing in commodities. The Fund competes with other financial vehicles, including other commodity pools, investment companies, hedge funds, traditional debt and equity securities issued by companies in the commodities industry, other securities backed by or linked to such commodities, and direct investments in the underlying commodities 18 Table of Contents or commodity futures contracts. Market and financial conditions, and other conditions beyond the Manager’s or Commodity Sub-adviser’s control, may make it more attractive to invest in other financial vehicles or to invest in such commodities directly, which could limit the market for the shares. The Fund has not been subject to independent review or review on your behalf. Shareholders do not have legal counsel representing them in connection with the Fund. Accordingly, a shareholder should consult its legal, tax and financial advisers regarding the desirability of investing in the Fund. As previously noted, you cannot predict the expected results of this Fund from the performance history of the Fund or of other accounts managed by the Commodity Sub-adviser. Deregistration of the Manager or Sub-advisers could disrupt operations. The Manager and the Commodity Sub-adviser are registered commodity pool operators, the Commodity Sub-adviser is a registered commodity trading advisor and the Collateral Sub-adviser is a registered investment adviser. If the CFTC were to terminate, suspend, revoke or not renew the Manager’s commodity pool operator registration, the Manager would be compelled to withdraw as the Fund’s Manager, and shareholders would then determine whether to select a replacement manager or to dissolve the Fund. If the CFTC and/or the SEC, as applicable, were to terminate, suspend, revoke or not renew either of the Sub-advisers’ registrations, the Manager would terminate the management agreement with that Sub-adviser, in which case the Manager could choose to appoint a new sub-advisor or terminate the Fund. No regulatory action is currently pending or threatened against the Manager, the Commodity Sub-adviser or the Collateral Sub-adviser. The Fund’s distribution policy may change at any time. Distributions paid by the Fund to its shareholders are derived from the current income and gains from the Fund’s portfolio investments and the options strategy, but to the extent such current income and gains are not sufficient to pay distributions, the Fund’s distributions may represent a return of capital. The total return generated by the Fund’s investments can vary widely over the short term and long term, and the Fund may liquidate investments in order to make distributions. The timing and terms of any such liquidation could be disadvantageous to the Fund and its shareholders. The Manager reserves the right to change the Fund’s distribution policy and the basis for establishing the rate of its monthly distributions, or may suspend or reduce distributions without a change in policy, at any time and may do so without prior notice to shareholders. Any suspension or reduction of distributions will increase the Fund’s assets under management upon which the Manager earns management fees and may negatively affect the market price of the Fund’s shares. In the event the Conversion occurs, the Fund will discontinue its distribution policy. Tax Risk As a partnership, the Fund may generate a tax liability regardless of whether you receive cash distributions. You will be taxed on your share of the Fund’s taxable income and gain each year, regardless of whether you receive any cash distributions from the Fund. The Fund is a partnership and not a regulated investment company; therefore, it is not required to make annual distributions. Your share of such income or gain, as well as the tax liability generated by such income or gain, may exceed the distributions, if any, that you receive from the Fund for the year. Certain provisions of the Internal Revenue Code may cause investors who purchased Fund shares at a discount to net asset value to recognize gain in the first year of purchase without having sold their shares. The Fund is taxed as a partnership, and as a result, you are treated as owning your proportionate share of Fund assets. Section 743(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), generally requires the Fund to adjust your proportionate share of the basis in the Fund’s assets (your share of the “inside basis” in the Fund) to reflect your initial “outside basis” in your shares (i.e., the initial purchase price of your shares). In addition, Section 1256 of the Code requires the Fund to treat a large majority of its futures contracts as having been sold for tax purposes at the end of each year at their then-current market value. The combined effect of Sections 743(b) and 1256 is that if you purchase Fund shares at a discount to net asset value during the year and hold those shares through year end, you would be deemed to have realized a capital 19 Table of Contents gain substantially equal to the amount of that discount. Any such deemed gain would be reflected on your Schedule K-1 for that year (in addition to all other items of gain and loss for the year), and your “outside basis” in the Fund’s shares would be stepped up by the amount of that gain. This basis step-up would have the effect of reducing your capital gain (or increasing your capital loss) upon any subsequent sale of your shares. This would accelerate your realization of capital gain, but would not increase the amount of gain realized over the full period of the investment. This acceleration effect would be particularly acute for investors who purchase shares at substantial discounts to net asset value. This deemed capital gain would be avoided if the Fund’s net asset value per share were to fall below your purchase price per share by year end; conversely, if the Fund’s net asset value were to increase by year end, your deemed capital gain would be higher than the amount of the discount. The calculations under Section 743(b) of the Code are complex, and there is little legal authority concerning the mechanics of the calculations, particularly in the context of publicly traded partnerships. It is possible that the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) will successfully assert that some or all of the conventions utilized by the Fund to determine and allocate the Section 743(b) basis adjustments do not satisfy the technical requirements of the Code or the regulations and, thus, will require different basis adjustments to be made. You could owe tax on your share of the Fund’s ordinary income despite overall losses. Gain or loss on futures and forward contracts and options on futures and forward contracts will generally be taxed as capital gains or losses for U.S. Federal income tax purposes. Interest income is ordinary income. In the case of an individual, capital losses can only be used to offset capital gains plus $3,000 ($1,500 in the case of a married taxpayer filing a separate return) of ordinary income each year. Therefore, you may be required to pay U.S. Federal income tax on your allocable share of the Fund’s ordinary income, even though the Fund incurs overall losses. Certain Fund expenses may be treated as miscellaneous itemized deductions rather than as deductible ordinary and necessary business expenses. Certain expenses incurred by the Fund may be treated as miscellaneous itemized deductions for U.S. Federal income tax purposes, rather than as deductible ordinary and necessary business expenses, with the result that shareholders who are individuals, trusts, or estates may be subject to limitations on the deductibility of their allocable share of such expenses. Tax-exempt investors may recognize unrelated business taxable income with respect to their investment in the Fund. Persons that are otherwise exempt from U.S. Federal income tax may be allocated unrelated business taxable income as a result of their investment in the Fund. In particular, for charitable remainder trusts, an investment in the Fund may not be appropriate. Non-U.S. investors may face U.S. tax consequences. Non-U.S. investors should consult their own tax advisors concerning the applicable foreign as well as the U.S. Federal income tax implications of an investment in the Fund. Non-U.S. investors may also be subject to special withholding tax provisions if they fail to furnish the Fund (or another appropriate person) with a timely and properly completed Form W-8BEN or other applicable form. Changes in the Fund’s tax treatment could adversely affect distributions to shareholders. The Fund believes that under current law and regulations it will be taxed as a partnership that is not subject to corporate income tax for U.S. Federal income tax purposes. However, the Fund has not requested, nor will it request, any ruling from the IRS as to this status. If the IRS were to challenge the U.S. Federal income tax status of the Fund, such a challenge could result in (i) an audit of each shareholder’s entire tax return and (ii) adjustments to items on that return that are unrelated to the ownership of shares. In addition, each shareholder would bear the cost of any expenses incurred in connection with an examination of its personal tax return. The Fund generally could be impacted adversely by proposed changes and future changes in U.S. Federal income tax laws or tax administration, including changes that might treat publicly traded partnerships like the Fund as taxable corporations. If for any reason the Fund were taxable as a corporation for U.S. Federal income tax purposes in any taxable year, its income, gains, losses and deductions would be reflected on its own tax return 20 Table of Contents rather than being passed through (proportionately) to shareholders. Its net income would be subject to taxation, reducing cash available for distributions, if any, and resulting in distributions, if any, being treated as dividends to the extent of current or accumulated earnings and profits. Such a tax reclassification could materially reduce the overall performance and after-tax returns of the Fund, possibly causing a decline in the price of the Fund shares. Items of income, gain, deduction, loss and credit with respect to Fund shares could be reallocated if the IRS does not accept the conventions used by the Fund in allocating Fund tax items. U.S. Federal income tax rules applicable to partnerships are complex and often difficult to apply to widely held partnerships. The Fund will apply certain conventions in an attempt to comply with applicable rules and to report income, gain, deduction, loss and credit to Fund shareholders in a manner that reflects shareholders’ share of Fund items, but these conventions may not be in full technical compliance with applicable tax requirements. It is possible that the IRS will successfully assert that the conventions used by the Fund to allocate income to the shareholders do not satisfy the technical requirements of the U.S. Federal income tax law and could require that items of income, gain, deduction, loss or credit be reallocated in a manner that adversely affects you. Tax rates and other features under current U.S. Federal income tax law may be adversely affected in the future. Long-term capital gains and ordinary income are now taxed to non-corporate investors at the applicable U.S. Federal income tax rates. There continue to be proposals for further changes to U.S. Federal income tax law, some of which could adversely affect the Fund or its shareholders. Increased oversight of foreign financial assets. Under the Foreign Account Tax Compliance provisions of the Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment Act (commonly known as “FATCA”) enacted in 2010, foreign financial institutions and non-financial foreign entities and certain U.S. taxpayers holding foreign financial assets are subject to an enhanced reporting, disclosure, certification, withholding, and enforcement regime. Among other things, certain “withholdable payments” made to a foreign financial institution or non-financial foreign entity are generally subject to withholding tax unless the foreign financial institution enters into a disclosure compliance agreement with the U.S. Treasury or the non-financial foreign entity certifies as to its ownership. A foreign financial institution formed or doing business in a jurisdiction that has entered into an intergovernmental agreement to implement FATCA may need to comply with rules enacted by that jurisdiction, rather than entering into an agreement with U.S. Treasury. Such potentially “withholdable payments” under FATCA include certain interest, dividends, rents, and other gains or income from U.S. sources, but exclude income derived from the active conduct of a business. Investors should consult their tax advisors concerning the potential impact of FATCA on them. You will receive a Schedule K-1 and as a result may incur additional costs. Investors in the Fund will receive a Schedule K-1 (not a Form 1099) reporting their allocable portion of the tax items of the Fund. This form is expected to be available by the end of the first week of March following the taxable year to which it relates. If there were a delay in making Schedule K-1 available, it could be more difficult for investors to complete their tax return in a timely fashion. In the event the Fund has income and/or gains, investors may be required to pay taxes on their portion of such income and/or gains and the amount of those taxes may exceed their distributions from the Fund or the amount they receive when they sell their shares. Schedule K-1 is complex and shareholders who seek advice from tax advisors with respect to their Schedule K-1 may incur additional costs in the form of fees. Possible constructive termination. Under U.S. Federal income tax law applicable to publicly traded partnerships like the Fund, if a partnership experiences sales or exchanges of 50% or more of its shares during a twelve month period, the partnership is “constructively terminated,” requiring it to close its tax year (and file its tax returns for that period or request an extension by the 15th day of the fourth month after the month in which the termination occurs, or the 15th day of the third month for tax years beginning after December 31, 2015) and restart a new tax year. It is difficult for publicly traded partnerships to ascertain on a real-time basis when constructive terminations occur given that shares are typically held in street name. Publicly traded partnerships typically identify actual beneficial owners only during the course of preparing year-end tax information for shareholders. 21 Table of Contents Therefore, a publicly traded partnership may not be aware that a constructive termination occurred until well after the fact, which potentially subjects the partnership to substantial penalties for failing to file the tax return for the period preceding the termination in a timely manner. Based on information received by the Manager to date, the Manager does not believe the Fund experienced a constructive termination during the tax year ended December 31, 2015. If you loan your shares to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of shares, you may be considered as having disposed of those shares. Because you may be considered to have sold shares that you loan to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of shares, you may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those shares during the period of the loan to the short seller and you may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those shares may not be reportable by you and any cash distributions you receive as to those shares could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Shareholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their shares. Shareholders are strongly urged to consult their own tax advisors and counsel with respect to the possible tax consequences to them of an investment in any shares. The tax consequences may differ in respect of different shareholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 