Item 1A. Risk Factors This section should be read carefully considering the risks described below as well as other information and data included in this report. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to the Nature and Operation of Our Business The network communications industry is highly competitive. We may be unsuccessful in competing effectively against other terrestrial and satellite-based network providers in our Network Equipment and Services business. We operate in a highly competitive network communications industry in the sale and lease of our products and services. Our industry is characterized by competitive pressures to provide enhanced functionality for the same or lower price with each new generation of technology. As the prices of our products decrease, we will need to sell more of our products and/or reduce our per-unit costs to improve or maintain our results of operations. Our Network Equipment and Services business faces competition from providers of terrestrial-based networks, such as Digital Subscriber Line (“DSL”), cable modem service, Multiprotocol Label Switching and internet-based virtual private networks (“IP VPNs”), which may have advantages over satellite networks for certain customer applications. Terrestrial-based networks are offered by telecommunications carriers and other large companies, many of which have substantially greater financial resources and greater name recognition than we do. The costs of a satellite network may exceed those of a terrestrial-based network, especially in areas that have experienced significant DSL and cable internet build-out. It may become more difficult for us to compete with terrestrial providers as the number of these areas increase and the cost of their network and hardware services declines. To increase our competitiveness, in some cases, we pair our satellite offerings with terrestrial solutions, which may result in lower margins. We rely on third-parties to implement the terrestrial component of these paired satellite/terrestrial solutions which means that we cannot control the implementation and rollout of these paired satellite/ terrestrial solutions to the same degree as our satellite only solutions. We also compete for enterprise clients with other satellite network providers, satellite providers that are targeting the SMB markets and smaller independent systems integrators on procurement projects. In Asia and Latin America, the build-out of terrestrial networks has adversely impacted demand for VSAT services and regulation and inequitable access remain barriers to new business. The Consumer/SMB network communications market is highly competitive. We may be unsuccessful in competing effectively against DSL and cable service providers and other satellite broadband providers in our Consumer/SMB business. We face competition for our North American Consumer/SMB satellite internet subscribers primarily from satellite, DSL and cable internet service providers. Also, other satellite and wireless broadband companies have launched or are planning the launch of consumer satellite internet access services in competition with us in North America. Some of these competitors offer consumer services and hardware at lower prices than ours. We have experienced and, may continue to experience, increased competition with the entrance of these new competitors into our market and the increasing build-out and lowering cost of DSL and cable internet access in North America. In addition, terrestrial alternatives do not require our “external dish” which may limit customer acceptance of our products. We also may face competition from our former parent, DIRECTV. For a description of this risk, see “—DIRECTV may compete with us in certain sectors and subject to certain conditions.” 17 Table of Contents If we are unable to develop, introduce and market new products, applications and services on a cost effective and timely basis, or if we are unable to sell our new products and services to existing and new customers, our business could be adversely affected. The network communications market is characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product introductions and evolving industry standards. If we fail to develop new technology or keep pace with significant industry technological changes, our existing products and technology could be rendered obsolete. Even if we keep up with technological innovation, we may not meet the demands of the network communications market. For example, our large enterprise customers may only choose to renew services with us at substantially lower prices or for a decreased level of service. Many of our large enterprise customers have existing networks available to them and may opt to find alternatives to our VSAT services or may renew with us solely as a backup network. If we are unable to respond to technological advances on a cost-effective and timely basis, or if our products or applications are not accepted by the market, then our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Economic factors may result in reduced demand and pricing pressure on our products and services. The telecommunications industry has been facing significant challenges resulting from excess capacity, new technologies and intense price competition. An overall trend toward industry consolidation and rationalization among our customers, competitors and suppliers can affect our business. Any future weakness in the economy or the telecommunications industry would affect us through reduced demand for, and pricing pressure on, our products and services, leading to a reduction in revenues and a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Satellite failures or degradations in satellite performance could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We lease satellite transponder capacity from fixed satellite service (“FSS”) providers in order to send and receive data communications to and from our VSAT networks. Satellites are subject to in-orbit risks including malfunctions, commonly referred to as anomalies, and collisions with meteoroids, decommissioned spacecraft or other space debris. Anomalies occur as a result of various factors, such as satellite manufacturing errors, problems with the power systems or control systems of the satellites and general failures resulting from operating satellites in the harsh space environment. Any single anomaly or series of anomalies affecting the satellites on which we lease transponder capacity could materially adversely affect our operations and revenues and our relationships with current customers, as well as our ability to attract new customers for our satellite services. Anomalies may also reduce the expected useful life of a satellite, thereby creating additional expenses due to the need to provide replacement or backup capacity and potentially reduce revenues if service is interrupted on the satellites we utilize. We may not be able to obtain backup capacity at similar prices, or at all. See “—The failure to adequately anticipate our need for transponder capacity or our inability to obtain transponder capacity could harm our results of operations.” In the event of a satellite failure, our services may be unavailable for several days to several weeks while backup in-orbit satellites are repositioned and services are moved or while we reposition our customers’ antennas to alternative satellites. We experienced one of these situations in late 2004 with a satellite on which we lease transponder capacity for service in North America. From time to time we also experience brief outages as a result of short-lived anomalies on the satellites we use. In such cases, service is generally restored on the affected satellite on the same day. In most instances, any relocation to an alternative satellite will require prior regulatory approval, which may not be obtained, or obtained in a timely manner. In addition, the entities from which we lease transponder capacity could be severely affected by anomalies affecting their satellites, which could result in disruption to the services they provide to us. An increased frequency of anomalies could impact market acceptance of our services. Any failure on our part to perform our VSAT service contracts or provide satellite broadband access as a result of satellite failures could result in: (i) a loss of revenue despite continued obligations under our leasing 18 Table of Contents arrangements; (ii) possible cancellation of our long-term contracts; (iii) our inability to continue with our subscription-based customers; (iv) incurring additional expenses to reposition customer antennas to alternative satellites; and (v) damaging our reputation, which could negatively affect our ability to retain existing customers or to gain new business. The cancellation of long-term contracts due to service disruptions is an exception to the generally non-cancellable nature of our contracts, and such cancellation would reduce our revenue backlog described in this report. See “—The failure to adequately anticipate our need for transponder capacity or our inability to obtain transponder capacity could harm our results of operations.” The failure to adequately anticipate our need for transponder capacity or our inability to obtain transponder capacity could harm our results of operations. We have made substantial contractual commitments for transponder capacity based on our existing customer contracts and backlog as well as anticipated future business. If future demand does not meet our expectations, we will be committed to maintain excess transponder capacity for which we will have no or insufficient revenues to cover our costs, which would have a negative impact on our margins and results of operations. Our transponder leases are generally for three to five years, and different leases cover satellites with coverage of different areas or other different features, so we cannot quickly or easily adjust our capacity to changes in demand. If we only purchase transponder capacity based on existing contracts and bookings, capacity for certain types of coverage in the future may be unavailable to us and we may not be able to satisfy certain needs of our customers, which could result in a loss of possible new business and could negatively impact the margins earned for those services. At present, until the launch and operation of additional satellites, there is limited availability of capacity on the Ku-band frequencies in North America. In addition, the FSS industry has seen consolidation in the past decade, and today the three main FSS providers in North America and a number of smaller regional providers own and operate the current satellites that are available for our capacity needs. The failure of any of these FSS providers or a downturn in their industry as a whole could reduce or interrupt the capacity available to us. If we are not able to renew our capacity leases, if our needs for capacity increase prior to new capacity becoming available, if capacity is not available at economically viable rates, or if capacity is unavailable due to any problems of the FSS providers, our business and results of operations would suffer. In the Consumer/SMB business, we anticipate a certain average bandwidth usage per subscriber. If the actual average bandwidth usage per subscriber increases significantly, we may not be able to acquire adequate transponders to satisfy the customers’ bandwidth requirement. While we may be able to obtain additional transponder capacity, this additional transponder capacity will increase our costs which would adversely impact our business and results of operations. Our networks and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security risks. We expect the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks to continue to be a critical element of our operations. Our networks and those of our third-party service providers and our customers may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses and other security problems. Persons who circumvent security measures could wrongfully obtain or use information on the network or cause interruptions, delays or malfunctions in our operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems, including reputational harm and litigation, caused by any breaches. In addition, our customer contracts, in general, do not contain provisions which would protect us against liability to third-parties with whom our customers conduct business. Although we intend to continue to implement industry-standard security measures, these measures may prove to be inadequate and result in system failures and delays that could lower network operations center availability and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and result of operations. 19 Table of Contents We face risks associated with our SPACEWAY 3 satellite. In addition to the competitive risks for the satellite network services mentioned above, if we are unable to successfully launch and implement our SPACEWAY 3 satellite as a result of any of the following risks, we will be unable to realize the anticipated benefits from our SPACEWAY 3 satellite, and our business and financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected: • Launch risks—There are risks associated with the launch of satellites, including launch failure, damage or destruction during launch and improper orbital placement. Launch failures result in significant delays in the deployment of satellites because of the need both to construct replacement satellites, which can take up to 36-48 months, and obtain other launch opportunities. Only certain launch vehicles can lift and place into orbit spacecraft in the mass range of the SPACEWAY 3 satellite, which further limits the launch opportunities for SPACEWAY 3 satellite. The overall historical loss rate in the satellite industry for all launches of commercial satellites in fixed orbits in the last five years is estimated by some industry participants to be 5% but may be higher. Since 2005, we have been under contract with a launch service provider to launch our SPACEWAY 3 satellite which, until recently, we expected would be launched in August 2007. In January 2007, the launch service provider with which we contracted to launch SPACEWAY 3 experienced a launch failure in attempting to launch a satellite owned by a satellite operator unrelated to us. This failure resulted in an immediate suspension of further launch missions by the launch service provider until the root cause of the failure is understood and mitigated and the launch platform is repaired. To enable a timely launch of SPACEWAY 3, we entered into a contract with an alternative launch service provider on February 28, 2007 to launch our SPACEWAY 3 satellite in August 2007. • Cost and schedule risks—We may be required to spend in excess of our current forecast for the launch and launch insurance for our SPACEWAY 3 satellite. The launch of satellites is often subject to delays resulting from launch vehicle construction delays, cost overruns, periodic unavailability of reliable launch opportunities and delays in obtaining regulatory approvals. • Business plan—Our SPACEWAY business plan may be unsuccessful, and we may not be able to achieve the cost savings that we expect from the SPACEWAY 3 satellite. A failure to attract the planned customers in a sufficient number would result in our inability to realize the cost savings that we expect to achieve from the anticipated lower costs of bandwidth associated with the capacity of the SPACEWAY 3 satellite. In addition, we will incur startup losses associated with the launch and operation of SPACEWAY 3 until we acquire a sufficient number of customers. • ITU registration and coordination—Our SPACEWAY 3 spacecraft operations will be subject to the frequency registration process of the ITU. Certain licensing administrations have ITU priority over the ITU filings that we may use for SPACEWAY 3 by virtue of their having made earlier ITU submissions for networks that could experience interference from the operation of the SPACEWAY 3 satellite. It is possible that some of these networks will either cause interference to the SPACEWAY 3 system or require protection from SPACEWAY 3 that will result in operational limitations. • Regulatory license risk—The SPACEWAY 3 satellite is primarily intended to provide services to North America. Our SPACEWAY 3 spacecraft operations will be subject to the licensing jurisdiction of the government whose ITU filing we use to launch and operate the SPACEWAY 3 satellite, and we will have to satisfy the licensing conditions imposed by such government. Should we be unable to obtain landing rights in any of the countries in which we intend to provide service, we would then be unable to operate in that country and would loose the resulting revenue. There are two ITU filings for the 95.0° W.L. orbital location which may be used for the SPACEWAY 3 satellite: one made by the U.S. Federal Communications commission (“FCC”) on behalf of our Parent, and the other made by the United Kingdom Office of Communications (“Ofcom”) on behalf of one of our United Kingdom subsidiaries. Ofcom and the FCC have the right to reassign or cancel the satellite filing it made on our or HCI’s behalf, respectively, if we or HCI fail to meet our milestone obligations. If we use the ITU filing made by the FCC, we will be required to reach an operational agreement with our Parent or to 20 Table of Contents obtain FCC approval to transfer such FCC license from our Parent to us. If we use the ITU filing made by the United Kingdom, we will be required to seek additional FCC approvals to serve the United States with a foreign-licensed satellite, which approvals may not be obtained or may not be granted in a timely manner. In addition, we must obtain authorizations from the regulatory agencies of nations other than the United States that we may seek to serve from the 95.0° W.L. orbital location, and we have not yet applied for or received any such authority. • In-orbit risks—Our SPACEWAY 3 satellite will be subject to similar potential satellite failures or performance degradations as other satellites. In-orbit risks similar to those described above under “—Satellite failures or degradations in satellite performance could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations” will apply to our SPACEWAY 3 satellite. To the extent there is an anomaly or other in-orbit failure with respect to our SPACEWAY 3 satellite, we will not have a replacement satellite or backup transponder capacity and would have to identify and lease alternative transponder capacity that may not be available on economic terms or at all. Additionally, we could be required to reposition the antennas of our customers, which could require new or modified licenses from regulatory authorities. • Insurance risks—We intend to seek launch and in-orbit insurance for our SPACEWAY 3 satellite, but we may not be able to obtain insurance on reasonable economic terms or at all. If we are able to obtain insurance, it will contain customary exclusions and will not likely cover the full cost of constructing and launching our SPACEWAY 3 satellite, nor will it cover business interruptions or similar losses. In addition, the occurrence of any anomalies on other satellites or on SPACEWAY 3, may materially adversely affect our ability to insure SPACEWAY 3 at commercially reasonable premiums, if at all. • Novel design—Our SPACEWAY 3 satellite employs a complex and novel design intended for higher-speed data rates and greater bandwidth per network site. If the enhanced features of the satellite design do not function to their specifications, we may not be able to offer the functionality or throughput of transmission service that we expect for SPACEWAY 3. Our separation from DIRECTV has required us to incur additional costs to operate as a stand-alone entity, and we face risks associated with the separation. Following the April 2005 Transaction, we had to begin providing for certain services as a stand-alone company that previously were provided, at least in part, by DIRECTV, including our own tax advisory services, treasury/cash management operations, risk management, audit, employee benefits and business insurance. In addition, we must implement financial and disclosure control procedures and corporate governance practices that enable us to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related SEC rules. For example, we will need to further develop accounting and financial capabilities, including development of documentation related to internal control policies and procedures. Failure to quickly establish the necessary controls and procedures would make it difficult to comply with SEC rules and regulations with respect to internal control and financial reporting. Further, the actual costs of providing these services could exceed our expectations, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. DIRECTV may compete with us in certain sectors and subject to certain conditions. While we have entered into a non-competition agreement with DIRECTV in connection with our separation from DIRECTV in 2005, DIRECTV has retained the right to compete with us in selling data services to consumers at all times and may compete with us in all areas after the five-year term of the non-competition agreement which commenced on April 22, 2010. In addition, while the non-competition agreement restricts DIRECTV from using its two SPACEWAY satellites for data service offerings that would directly compete with us, DIRECTV is not limited in such use if the video capability of its SPACEWAY satellites does not remain capable of commercial operations. Moreover, DIRECTV is not restricted from competing with our business if such data services are incidental to DIRECTV’s provision of a video service to an enterprise customer and are an 21 Table of Contents integral part of such video service or are available as an optional add-on to such video service. In any event, DIRECTV may compete with us after the non-competition agreement expires on April 22, 2010. Because we depend on being awarded large-scale contracts in competitive bidding processes, losing a modest number of bids could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations. In 2006 and 2005, substantially all sales revenue in our network equipment and services business was derived from large-scale VSAT network contracts that were awarded to us following competitive bidding. The number of major procurements for VSAT-based networks in any given year is limited and the competition is intense. Losing a modest number of such bids each year could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, our period to period results may fluctuate in any given year based on the timing of these large-scale contracts. We have reported losses once in the last three years and may incur losses in the future, and we may not be able to sustain the revenue growth that we have experienced in recent years. For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, we generated net income of $19.1 million and $24.0 million, respectively and a net loss of $1,433.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Although our revenues have grown in recent years, we may be unable to sustain such growth rates in light of changing market or economic conditions. In addition, any inability on our part to control costs could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to suffer. We are dependent upon suppliers of components, manufacturing outsourcing, installation and customer service, and our results of operations may be materially affected if any of these third-party providers fail to appropriately deliver the contracted goods or services. We are dependent upon third-party services and products provided to us, including the following: • Components—A limited number of suppliers manufacture some of the key components required to build our VSATs. These key components may not be continually available and we may not be able to forecast our component requirements sufficiently in advance, which may have a detrimental effect on supply. If we are required to change suppliers for any reason, we would experience a delay in manufacturing our products if another supplier is not able to meet our requirements on a timely basis. In addition, if we are unable to obtain the necessary volumes of components on favorable terms or prices on a timely basis, we may be unable to produce our products at competitive prices and we may be unable to satisfy demand from our customers. All of our products contain components whose base raw materials have undergone dramatic cost increases in the last six to 12 months. Increases in pricing of crude oil, gold and other metals such as zinc and aluminum have the ability to affect our product costs. Although we have been successful in offsetting or mitigating our exposure to these raw material cost increases, such increases could have an adverse impact on our product costs. • Manufacturing outsourcing—While we develop and manufacture prototypes for our products, we use contract manufacturers to produce a significant portion of our hardware. If these contract manufacturers fail to provide products that meet our specifications in a timely manner, then our customer relationships may be harmed. • Installation and customer support service—Each of our North American and international operations utilize a network of third-party installers to deploy our hardware. In addition, a portion of our customer support and management is provided by offshore call centers. Since we provide customized services for our customers that are essential to their operations, a decline in levels of service or attention to the needs of our customers or the occurrence of negligent and careless acts could adversely affect our reputation, renewal rates and ability to win new business. 22 Table of Contents Our failure to develop, obtain or protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our future performance and growth. Our success depends on our ability to develop and protect our proprietary rights to the technologies and inventions used in our services and products, including proprietary VSAT technology and related services and products. We rely on a combination of United States and foreign patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws as well as licenses, nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual agreements or restrictions to protect certain aspects of our business. We have registered trademarks and patents and have pending trademark and patent applications in the United States and a number of foreign countries. However, our patent and trademark applications may not be allowed by the applicable governmental authorities to issue as patents or register as trademarks at all, or in a form that will be advantageous to us. In addition, in some instances, we may not have registered important patent and trademark rights in these and other countries. If we fail to timely file a patent application in any such country, we may be precluded from doing so at a later date. In addition, the laws of some countries do not protect and do not allow us to enforce our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. As such, our intellectual property rights may not receive the same degree of protection in foreign countries as they would in the United States. Accordingly, we might not be able to protect our proprietary products and technologies against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could negatively affect our competitive position. We may fail to recognize opportunities to provide, maintain or enforce intellectual property protection for our business. Furthermore, our intellectual property may prove inadequate to protect our proprietary rights, may be infringed or misappropriated by others or may diminish in value over time. Our competitors may be able to freely make use of our patented technology after our patents expire or may challenge the validity, enforceability or scope of our patents, trademarks or trade secrets. Competitors also may independently develop products or services that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. Further, we cannot assure you that competitors will not infringe our patents. In addition, it may be possible for third-parties to reverse-engineer, or otherwise obtain, copy and use information that we regard as proprietary. If we are unable to protect our services and products through the enforcement of our intellectual property rights, our ability to compete based on our current market advantages may be harmed. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. If we fail to prevent substantial unauthorized access to our trade secrets, we risk the loss of those intellectual property rights and whatever competitive advantage they provide us. Claims that our services and products infringe the intellectual property rights of others could increase our costs and reduce our sales, which would adversely affect our revenue. We have in the past received, and may in the future receive, communications from third-parties claiming that we or our products infringe upon the intellectual property rights of third-parties. We have also been named in the past, and may in the future be named, as a defendant in lawsuits claiming that our services or products infringe upon the intellectual property rights of third-parties. Litigation may be necessary to determine the validity and scope of third-party rights or to defend against claims of infringement. Litigation may also be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend against claims that our intellectual property rights are invalid or unenforceable. Such litigation, regardless of the outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, including time and attention of management and other key personnel, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect to be increasingly subject to such claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry grows. 23 Table of Contents Many entities, including some of our competitors, have or may in the future obtain patents and other intellectual property rights that cover or affect products or services related to those that we currently offer or may offer in the future. In general, if a court determines that one or more of our services or products infringes on valid and enforceable intellectual property owned by others, we may be liable for money damages and may be required to cease developing or marketing those services and products, unless we obtain licenses from the owners of the intellectual property or redesign those services and products in such a way as to avoid infringing on those intellectual property rights. If a third-party holds intellectual property rights, it may not allow us to use its intellectual property at any price, or on terms acceptable to us, which could materially adversely affect our competitive position. We may not be aware of all intellectual property rights that our services or products may potentially infringe. Further, without lengthy litigation, it may not be possible to determine definitively whether a claim of infringement is valid. We cannot estimate the extent to which we may be required in the future to obtain intellectual property licenses or the availability and cost of any such licenses. Those costs, and their impact on our earnings, could be material. Damages in patent infringement cases may also include treble damages in certain circumstances. To the extent that we are required to pay royalties to third-parties to whom we are not currently making payments, these increased costs of doing business could materially adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, under some of our agreements with customers, we are not permitted to use all or some of the intellectual property developed for that customer for other customers, and in other cases, we have agreed not to provide similar services to such customers’ competitors. Further, our service agreements with our customers generally provide that we will defend and indemnify them for claims against them relating to our alleged infringement of third-party intellectual property rights with respect to services and products we provide. Third-parties may assert infringement claims against our customers. These claims may require us to initiate or defend protracted and costly litigation on behalf of our customers, regardless of the merits of these claims. If any of these claims succeed, we may be forced to pay damages on behalf of our customers or may be required to obtain licenses for the products they use. If we cannot obtain all necessary licenses on commercially reasonably terms, our customers may be forced to stop using our products. In addition, our patents, trademarks and other proprietary rights may be subject to various attacks claiming they are invalid or unenforceable. These attacks might invalidate, render unenforceable or otherwise limit the scope of the protection that our patents, trademarks and other rights afford us. If we lose the use of a product name or brand name, our efforts spent building that brand may be lost, and we will have to rebuild a brand for that product, which we may or may not be able to do, and which would cause us to incur new costs in connection with building such brand name. If we are involved in a patent infringement suit, even if we prevail, there is no assurance that third-parties will not be able to design around our patents, which could harm our competitive position. If we are unable to license technology from third-parties on satisfactory terms, our developmental costs could increase and we may not be able to deploy our services and products in a timely manner. We depend, in part, on technology that we license from third-parties on a non-exclusive basis and integrate into our products and service offerings. Licenses for third-party technology that we use in our current products may be terminated or not renewed, and we may be unable to license third-party technology necessary for such products in the future. Furthermore, we may be unable to renegotiate acceptable third-party license terms to reflect changes in our pricing models. Changes to or the loss of a third-party license could lead to an increase in the costs of licensing or inoperability of products or network services. In addition, technology licensed from third-parties may have undetected errors that impair the functionality or prevent the successful integration of our products or services. As a result of any such changes or loss, we may need to incur additional development costs to ensure continued performance of our products or suffer delays until replacement technology, if available, can be obtained and integrated. 24 Table of Contents If our products contain defects, we could be subject to significant costs to correct such defects and our product and network service contracts could be delayed or cancelled, which could expose us to significant liability and significantly reduce our revenues. Our products and the networks we deploy are highly complex, and some may contain defects when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released, despite extensive testing and our quality control procedures. In addition, many of our products and network services are designed to interface with our customers’ existing networks, each of which have different specifications and utilize multiple protocol standards. Our products and services must interoperate with the other products and services within our customers’ networks, as well as with future products and services that might be added to these networks to meet our customers’ requirements. The occurrence of any defects, errors or failures in our products or network services could result in: (i) incurring additional costs to correct such defects; (ii) cancellation of orders; (iii) a reduction in revenue backlog; (iv) product returns; (v) diversion of our resources; (vi) legal actions by our customers or our customers’ end users, including for damages caused by a defective product; and (vii) the issuance of credits to customers and other losses to us, our customers or end users. If our products and network services do not perform their intended function, customer installations could be delayed or orders for our products and services could be cancelled, which could significantly reduce our revenues. Any of these occurrences could also result in the loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products and services and loss of sales, which would harm our reputation and our business and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. In addition, our insurance would not cover the cost of correcting significant errors, defects, design errors or security problems. Our Parent is majority-owned by Apollo Investment Fund IV, L.P. (“Apollo”) and Apollo’s interests may conflict with those of the holders of our 9.5% Senior Notes (the “Senior Notes”). As of December 31, 2006, Apollo owned in the aggregate 12,408,611 shares, or approximately 65.3%, of HCI’s outstanding common stock. Therefore, Apollo has control over HCI’s management and policies, such as the election of its directors, the appointment of new management and the approval of any other action requiring the approval of HCI stockholders, including any amendments to its certificate of incorporation and mergers or sales of all or substantially all of its assets. The interests of Apollo may not in all cases be aligned with the holders of our Senior Notes. For example, if we encounter financial difficulties, or we are unable to pay our debts as they mature, the interests of Apollo might conflict with those of the holders of the Senior Notes. Furthermore, Apollo may in the future own businesses that directly or indirectly compete with us. Currently, Apollo has an interest in Intelsat, Ltd., who leases satellite transponder capacity and has an ownership interest in WildBlue Communications, Inc., one of our competitors in the North American consumer market. Apollo may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Apollo has other investments in the satellite and telecommunications industry and, subject to limitations contained in our LLC agreement regarding affiliate transactions, they may cause us to enter into transactions with their affiliates to buy or sell assets. Our future success depends on our ability to retain our key employees. We are dependent on the services of HCI’s and our senior management team to remain competitive in our industry. The loss of one or more members of HCI or our senior management team could have an adverse effect on us until qualified replacements are found. We may not be able to quickly replace these individuals with persons of equal experience and capabilities. In addition, technological innovation depends, to a significant extent, on the work of technically skilled employees. Competition for executive, managerial and skilled personnel in our industry is intense. We expect to face continued increases in compensation costs in order to attract and retain senior executives, managers and skilled employees, especially if the current job economy continues to improve. We may not be able to retain our existing senior management, fill new positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover or attract or retain the management and personnel necessary to develop and market our products. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of these individuals. 25 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Regulation of Our Business We may face difficulties in obtaining regulatory approvals for our provision of telecommunications services, and we may face changes in regulation, each of which could adversely affect our operations. In a number of countries where we operate, the provision of telecommunications services is highly regulated. In such countries, we are required to obtain approvals from national and local authorities in connection with most of the services that we provide. In many jurisdictions, we must maintain such approvals through compliance with license conditions or payment of annual regulatory fees. While the governmental authorizations for our current business generally have not been difficult to obtain in a timely manner, the need to obtain particular authorizations in the future may delay our provision of current and new services. Moreover, the imposition by a governmental entity of conditions on our authorizations, or the failure to obtain authorizations necessary to launch and operate satellites or provide satellite service, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue and conduct our business as currently planned. Violations of laws or regulations may result in various sanctions including fines, loss of authorizations and the denial of applications for new authorizations or for the renewal of existing authorizations. Future changes to the regulations under which we operate could make it difficult for us to obtain or maintain authorizations, increase our costs or make it easier or less expensive for our competitors to compete with us. See “Item 1. Business—Government Regulation.” In particular, the FCC recently adopted and released two orders governing the obligations of broadband Internet access and Internet telephony service providers to comply with the requirements of the Federal Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (“CALEA”). CALEA requires telecommunications carriers, including satellite-based carriers, to ensure that law enforcement agencies are able to conduct lawfully-authorized surveillance of users of their services. The first order established that broadband Internet access and Internet telephony service providers must comply with CALEA, and that all newly-covered service providers must comply by May 14, 2007. The second order addresses the assistance capabilities required of the providers covered by the first order, as well as compliance extensions and exemptions, cost recovery, identification of future services and entities subject to CALEA, and enforcement. We may be required to make changes in our system architecture in order to comply with the FCC’s orders in this proceeding. We may be unable to satisfy the compliance deadline established by the new FCC orders on CALEA, which could subject us to possible enforcement actions. Our international sales and operations are subject to applicable laws relating to trade, export controls and foreign corrupt practices, the violation of which could adversely affect our operations. We must comply with all applicable export control laws and regulations of the United States and other countries. United States laws and regulations applicable to us include the Arms Export Control Act, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (“ITAR”), the Export Administration Regulations (“EAR”) and the trade sanctions laws and regulations administered by the United States Department of the Treasury’ Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”). The export of certain satellite hardware, services and technical information relating to satellites is regulated by the United States Department of State’s Directorate of Defense Trade Controls under ITAR. Other items are controlled for export by the United States Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security “the Bureau” under the EAR. We cannot provide services to certain countries subject to United States trade sanctions unless we first obtain the necessary authorizations from OFAC. In addition, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), that, generally, bars bribes or unreasonable gifts to foreign governments or officials. See “Item 1. Business—Government Regulation.” Following a voluntary disclosure by DIRECTV and DTV Network Systems, Inc. (“DTV Networks”) in June 2004, DIRECTV and DTV Networks entered into a consent agreement with the U.S. Department of State in January 2005 regarding alleged violations of the ITAR relating to exports by us of VSAT technology, primarily 26 Table of Contents to China. The January 2005 consent agreement supplemented another consent agreement of DIRECTV in March 2003, arising out of separate violations of ITAR. Under the consent agreement, which applies to us, DIRECTV agreed to pay a $4.0 million fine over a period of three years and we are required to establish and maintain a special compliance official for a period of three years. The special compliance official is an independent contractor with authority to oversee matters relating to compliance with the ITAR. We have satisfied the requirement in the consent agreement that we spend $1.0 million over a period of three years for certain enhanced remedial compliance measures. As part of the consent agreement, one of our subsidiaries in China was debarred from conducting certain international business, although we may seek reinstatement in the future. As a result of the voluntary disclosure and consent agreement, we have been unable to perform our obligations under certain contracts in China and South Korea addressed by the consent agreement. If ultimately unable to perform, we may be liable for certain damages, which are not expected to be material. In June 2006, we settled such a claim from one of our customers in China for $0.5 million. Further violations of these laws or regulations may result in significant additional sanctions including fines, onerous compliance requirements, extensive debarments from export privileges or loss of authorizations needed to conduct aspects of our international business. A future violation of ITAR or the other regulations enumerated above could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our foreign operations expose us to risks and restrictions not present in our domestic operations. Our operations outside the United States accounted for 26% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2006, and we expect our foreign operations to continue to represent a significant portion of our business. We have operations in Brazil, China, Germany, India, Indonesia, Italy, Mexico, the Russian Federation, South Africa, the United Arab Emirates and the United Kingdom, among other nations, and over the last 20 years we have sold products in over 100 countries. Our foreign operations involve varying degrees of risks and uncertainties inherent in doing business abroad. Such risks include: • Complications in complying with restrictions on foreign ownership and investment and limitations on repatriation—We may not be permitted to own our operations in some countries and may have to enter into partnership or joint venture relationships. Many foreign legal regimes restrict our repatriation of earnings to the United States from our subsidiaries and joint venture entities. We may also be limited in our ability to distribute or access our assets by the governing documents pertaining to such entities. In such event, we will not have access to the cash flow and assets of our joint ventures. • Difficulties in following a variety of foreign laws and regulations, such as those relating to data content retention, privacy and employee welfare—Our international operations are subject to the laws of many different jurisdictions that may differ significantly from United States law. For example, local political or intellectual property law may hold us responsible for the data that is transmitted over our network by our clients. Also, other nations have more stringent employee welfare laws that guarantee perquisites that we must offer. Compliance with these laws may lead to increased operations costs, loss of business opportunities or violations that result in fines or other penalties. • We face significant competition in our international markets—Outside North America, we have traditionally competed for VSAT hardware and services sales primarily in Europe, Brazil, India and China and focused only on hardware sales in other regions. In Europe, we face intense competition which is not expected to abate in the near future. • Changes in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the United States dollar—We conduct our business and incur costs in the local currency of a number of the countries in which we operate. Accordingly, our results of operations are reported in the relevant local currency and then translated to United States dollars at the applicable currency exchange rate for inclusion in our financial statements. Because our foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures operate in foreign currencies, fluctuations in currency exchange rates have affected, and may in the future affect, the value of profits earned on international sales. In addition, we operate our business in countries that historically have been and 27 Table of Contents may continue to be susceptible to recessions or currency devaluation, including Argentina and Indonesia in recent years. • Greater exposure to the possibility of economic instability, the disruption of operations from labor and political disturbances, expropriation or war—As we conduct operations throughout the world, we could be subject to regional or national economic downturns or instability, labor or political disturbances or conflicts of various sizes. Any of these disruptions could detrimentally affect our sales in the affected region or country or lead to damage to, or expropriation of, our property or danger to our personnel. • Competition with large or state-owned enterprises and/or regulations that effectively limit our operations and favor local competitors—Many of the countries in which we conduct business have traditionally had state owned or state granted monopolies on telecommunications services that favor an incumbent service provider. We face competition from these favored and entrenched companies in countries that have not deregulated. The slower pace of deregulation in these countries, particularly in Asia and Latin America, has adversely affected the growth of our business in these regions. • Customer credit risks—Customer credit risks are exacerbated in foreign operations because there is often little information available about the credit histories of customers in the foreign countries in which we operate. We may face difficulties in accurately assessing and collecting contributions towards the Universal Service Fund. As a provider of telecommunications in the United States, we are presently required to contribute a percentage of our revenues from telecommunications services to universal service support mechanisms that subsidize the provision of services to low-income consumers, high-cost areas, schools, libraries and rural health care providers. This percentage is set each calendar quarter by the FCC. Current FCC rules permit us to pass this universal service contribution through to our customers. Because our customer contracts often include both telecommunications, which create such support obligations, and other goods and services, which do not, it can be difficult to determine which portion of our revenues forms the basis for this contribution and the amount that we can recover from its customers. If the FCC, which oversees the support mechanisms, or a court or other governmental entity were to determine that we computed our contribution obligation incorrectly or passed through the wrong amount to its customers, we could become subject to additional assessments, liabilities, or other financial penalties. In addition, the FCC is considering substantial changes to its universal service contribution rules, and these changes could impact our future contribution obligations and the contribution obligations of third parties that provide communication services that we use to provide our services. Any such change to the universal service contribution rules could increase or decrease our costs of providing service to our customers. 28 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Indebtedness Our high level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations and could limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from meeting our obligations. We are significantly leveraged. The following table shows our level of indebtedness as of December 31, 2006 (in thousands): December 31,2006 Senior notes $ 450,000 VSAT hardware financing 41,818 Revolving bank borrowings 2,174 Term loans payable to banks 2,408 Total debt $ 496,400 Subsequent to year-end, the Company borrowed an additional $115 million from a syndicate of banks (“Term Loan Facility”) on February 23, 2007. Our substantial degree of leverage could have important consequences, including the following: • it may limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; • a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations will be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes, including our operations, capital expenditures, investments in new technologies and future business opportunities; • our Revolving Credit Facility, as defined in Note 14 to the audited financial statements included in Item 8 in this report, and certain of our unsecured term loans are at a variable rate of interest, exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates; • it may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or more financial resources; and • we may be vulnerable in a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business, or we may be unable to carry out capital spending that is important to our growth. We may not be able to generate cash to meet our debt service needs. Our ability to make payments on or to refinance our indebtedness and to fund our operations will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future, which is subject in part to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to service our debt, we will be forced to take actions such as revising or delaying our strategic plans, reducing or delaying capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. We may be unable to affect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. The Revolving Credit Facility, the Term Loan Facility and the indenture that governs the Senior Notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from such dispositions. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to use those proceeds to meet any debt service obligations then due. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result: • our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable; 29 Table of Contents • the lenders under our revolving credit facility could terminate their commitments to loan us money and foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings; and • we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation, which could result in the holders of the Senior Notes losing their investment. As of December 31, 2006, we had $37.7 million available for secured borrowings under our revolving credit facility (after giving effect to the issuance of $12.3 million of letters of credit). If new debt is added to these current debt levels, the related risks that we and our subsidiary guarantors now face could intensify. The subsidiaries that guarantee the Senior Notes are also guarantors under our Revolving Credit Facility and the Term Loan Facility. See Note 14 to our audited financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. Covenants in our debt agreements will restrict our business in many ways. The indenture governing the Senior Notes and the credit agreement governing the Term Loan Facility contain various covenants that limit our ability and/or our restricted subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness; • issue redeemable stock and preferred stock; • incur liens; • pay dividends or distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock; • prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; • make loans and investments; • enter into agreements that restrict distributions from our subsidiaries; • sell assets and capital stock of our subsidiaries; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; • consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person; and • enter into new lines of business. In addition, our Revolving Credit Facility contains restrictive covenants. A breach of any of the covenants under the indenture, the Revolving Credit Facility or the Term Loan Facility could result in a default under our revolving credit facility and/or the Senior Notes and/or the Term Loan Facility. Upon an event of default under our revolving credit facility, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our revolving credit facility could proceed against the collateral that secures that indebtedness. We have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under our revolving credit facility. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has no unresolved comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission. 30 Table of Contents 