Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risks and the risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” could materially affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. If any these risks materialize, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to the Operations and Business of PositiveID We have a history of losses and expect to incur additional losses in the future. We are unable to predict the extent of future losses or when we will become profitable. For the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, we experienced net losses of $7.2 million and $4.3 million, respectively and our accumulated deficit at December 31, 2014 was $132.8 million. Until one or more of the products is successfully brought to market, we do not anticipate generating significant revenue or gross profit. We have submitted, or are the process of submitting, bids on various potential new U.S. Government contracts; however, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining any such new or other contracts. We expect to continue to incur operating losses for the near future. Our ability in the future to achieve or sustain profitability is based on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Even if we achieve profitability in the future, we may not be able to sustain profitability in subsequent periods. Our financial statements indicate conditions exist that raise substantial doubt as to whether we will continue as a going concern. Our annual audited financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 indicate conditions exist that raise substantial doubt as to whether we will continue as a going concern. Our continuation as a going concern is dependent upon our ability to obtain financing to fund the continued development of products, and working capital requirements. If we cannot continue as a going concern, our stockholders may lose their entire investment. 11 Government contracts and subcontracts are generally subject to a competitive bidding process that may affect our ability to win contract awards or renewals in the future. We bid on government contracts through a formal competitive process in which we may have many competitors. If awarded, upon expiration, these contracts may be subject, once again, to a competitive renewal process if applicable. We may not be successful in winning contract awards or renewals in the future. Our failure to renew or replace existing contracts when they expire could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Contracts and subcontracts with United States government agencies that we may be awarded will be subject to competition and will be awarded on the basis of technical merit, personnel qualifications, experience, and price. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially affected to the extent that U.S. government agencies believe our competitors offer a more attractive combination of the foregoing factors. In addition, government demand and payment for our products may be affected by public sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations, with funding reductions or delays adversely affecting demand for our products. In particular, the, next generation BioWatch program is a very large program, under which we intend to bid as a subcontractor to The Boeing Company. Our success in this process is a very important factor in our ability to increase stockholder value. Compliance with changing regulations concerning corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. There have been changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and new regulations promulgated by the SEC. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards are likely to continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Our board members and executive officers could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies, we could be subject to liability under applicable laws or our reputation may be harmed. Changes in the regulatory environment could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our operations are subject to varying degrees of regulation by the FDA, other federal, state and local regulatory agencies and legislative bodies. Adverse decisions or new or amended regulations or mandates adopted by any of these regulatory or legislative bodies could negatively impact our operations by, among other things, causing unexpected or changed capital investments, lost revenues, increased costs of doing business, and could limit our ability to engage in certain sales or marketing activities. We depend on key personnel to manage our business effectively, and, if we are unable to hire, retain or motivate qualified personnel, our ability to design, develop, market and sell our systems could be harmed. Our future success depends, in part, on certain key employees, including William J. Caragol, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer and Lyle Probst, our President, and on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel may seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly operations, finance, accounting, sales and marketing personnel, may also seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel will be a critical factor in determining whether we will be successful in the future. We will continue to incur the expenses of complying with public company reporting requirements. We have an obligation to continue to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of the Exchange Act which includes the filing with the SEC of periodic reports, proxy statements and other documents relating to our business, financial conditions and other matters, even though compliance with such reporting requirements is economically burdensome at this time. Directors, executive officers, principal stockholders and affiliated entities own a significant percentage of our capital stock, and they may make decisions that you do not consider to be in the best interests of our stockholders. As of March 19, 2015, our current directors and executive officers beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 80% of our outstanding voting securities, including 46.5% owned by our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. As a result, if some or all of them acted together, they would have the ability to exert substantial influence over the election of the Board and the outcome of issues requiring approval by our stockholders. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company that may be favored by other stockholders. This could prevent transactions in which stockholders might otherwise recover a premium for their shares over current market prices. 12 The Company’s officers, directors and management hold preferred shares that give them voting control of the Company. On September 30, 2013, the Company issued 413 shares of Series I Preferred Stock to its current officers, directors and management (a total of six people). On December 31, 2013 and January 14, 2014, an additional 587 shares of Series I was issued for 2013 and 2014 management and director compensation. On January 12, 2015, an additional 625 shares of Series I was issued for 2014 management incentive compensation and 2015 director compensation. Each of the Series I preferred is convertible into the Company’s Common Stock, at stated value plus accrued dividends, at the closing bid price on the issuance date, any time at the option of the holder and by the Company in the event that the Company’s closing stock price exceeds 400% of the conversion price for twenty consecutive trading days. The Series I Preferred Stock has voting rights equivalent to twenty-five votes per common share equivalent. The Series I preferred shares issued to all four current members of the Board and the three non-directors who are part of management are as follows: Name Position Preferred Series I Issued Common Shares Issuable Upon Conversion Total Votes William J. Caragol Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 856 32,630,716 815,767,895 Michael E. Krawitz Director 126 4,486,934 112,173,351 Jeffrey S. Cobb Director 113 4,094,065 102,351,624 Ned L. Siegel Director 89 3,368,768 84,219,203 Lyle Probst President 290 11,196,869 279,921,722 Allison F. Tomek SVP of Corporate Development 101 3,831,807 95,795,166 Kimothy Smith Chief Technology Advisory 50 1,872,856 46,821,410 Total 1,625 61,482,015 1,537,050,371 As of March 19, 2015, our officers, directors and management now have an aggregate of 1,541,240,713 million votes on any matter brought to a vote of the holders of our common stock, including an aggregate 1,537,050,371 million votes, or 80% of the total vote, through the ownership of Series I Preferred Stock, and 4,691,890 million votes through the ownership of shares of our common stock. As a result, our officers, directors, and management have voting control over the 1,545,962,603 million of the outstanding voting shares of the Company (excluding exercisable Stock options). As a result, our Board may, at any time, authorize the issuance of additional common or preferred stock without common stockholder approval, subject only to the total number of authorized common and preferred shares set forth in our certificate of incorporation. The terms of equity securities issued by us in future transactions may be more favorable to new investors, and may include dividend and/or liquidation preferences, superior voting rights and the issuance of warrants or other derivative securities, which may have a further dilutive effect. Since management has voting control over the Company, it also has the ability to approve any increase in the amount of authorized shares of common or preferred stock thus, there are no limitations on management’s ability to continue to make dilutive issuances of securities. Risks Related to Our Product Development Efforts We anticipate future losses and will require additional financing, and our failure to obtain additional financing when needed could force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. We anticipate future losses and therefore may be dependent on additional financing to execute our business plan. In particular, we will require additional capital to continue to conduct the research and development and obtain regulatory clearances and approvals necessary to bring our products to market and to establish effective marketing and sales capabilities for existing and future products. Our operating plan may change, and we may need additional funds sooner than anticipated to meet our operational needs and capital requirements for product development, clinical trials and commercialization. Additional funds may not be available when we need them on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on a timely basis, we may terminate or delay the development of one or more of our products, or delay establishment of sales and marketing capabilities or other activities necessary to commercialize our products. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: the research and development of our molecular diagnostic products, the costs of expanding sales and marketing infrastructure and manufacturing operations; the number and types of future products we develop and commercialize; the costs, timing and outcomes of regulatory reviews associated with our current and future product candidates; the costs of preparing, filing and prosecuting patent applications and maintaining, enforcing and defending intellectual property-related claims; and the extent and scope of our general and administrative expenses. 13 Our industry changes rapidly as a result of technological and product developments, which may quickly render our product candidates less desirable or even obsolete. If we are unable or unsuccessful in supplementing our product offerings, our revenue and operating results may be materially adversely affected. The industry in which we operate is subject to rapid technological change. The introduction of new technologies in the market, including the delay in the adoption of these technologies, as well as new alternatives for the delivery of products and services will continue to have a profound effect on competitive conditions in this market. We may not be able to develop and introduce new products, services and enhancements that respond to technological changes on a timely basis. If our product candidates are not accepted by the market as anticipated, if at all, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Risks Occasioned by the Xmark Transaction We may be liable for pre-closing period tax obligations of Xmark. In January 2010, Stanley, who purchased Xmark from us, received a notice from the Canadian Revenue Agency, (the “CRA”), that the CRA would be performing a review of Xmark’s Canadian tax returns for the periods 2005 through 2008. This review covers all periods that we owned Xmark. In February 2011, and as revised on November 9, 2011, Stanley received a notice from the CRA that the CRA completed its review of the Xmark returns and was questioning certain deductions on the tax returns under review. In November and December 2011, the CRA and the Ministry of Revenue of the Province of Ontario issued notices of reassessment confirming the proposed adjustments. The total amount of the income tax reassessments for the 2006-2008 tax years, including both provincial and federal reassessments, plus interest, was approximately $1.4 million. On January 20, 2012, we received an indemnification claim notice from Stanley related to the matter. We do not agree with the position taken by the CRA and filed a formal appeal related to the matter on March 8, 2012. In addition, on March 28, 2012, Stanley received assessments for withholding taxes on deemed dividend payments in respect of the disallowed management fees totaling approximately $0.2 million, for which we filed a formal appeal on June 7, 2012. In October 2012, the Company submitted a Competent Authority filing to the U.S. IRS seeking relief in the matter. In connection with the filing of the appeals, Stanley was required to remit an upfront payment of a portion of the tax reassessment totaling approximately $950,000. The Company has also filed a formal appeal related to the withholding tax assessments, pursuant to which Stanley was required to remit an additional upfront payment of approximately $220,000. Pursuant to a letter agreement dated March 7, 2012, we have agreed to repay Stanley for the upfront payment, plus interest at the rate of five percent per annum, in 24 equal monthly payments beginning on June 1, 2012. To the extent that we and Stanley reach a successful resolution of the matter through the appeals process, the upfront payment (or a portion thereof) will be returned to Stanley or us as applicable. As of December 31, 2013 the Company had made payments to Stanley of $385,777 and had a remaining balance owed to Stanley of $819,677 related to their upfront payments to CRA in 2012 prior to the final notice received on February 28, 2014 from the CRA, see below. On February 28, 2014 the Company received final notice from the CRA. The final notice accepted a portion of the Company’s previously disallowed deductions and disallowed others. The Company has determined that it will not further appeal the decision in the final notice. The Company and Stanley are in the process of submitting the amended tax returns necessary to effect the final adjustments. The Company recorded a tax expense of $371,000 for the year ended December 31, 2013 to reflect this adjusted tax obligation to Stanley as of December 31, 2013. During 2014 we made payments of $20,000 to Stanley and will continue to make monthly payments until the balance is paid in full. Based on management’s estimate the Company’s liability to Stanley is approximately $480,000 as of December 31, 2014. Based on our review of the correspondence and evaluation of the supporting detail, we believe that we have adequately accrued for the liability resulting from the final notice. Industry and Business Risks Related to Our Legacy Healthcare Businesses The sale and license of our legacy healthcare products may not produce royalty streams. In 2013 we sold the assets related to our VeriChip business to VeriTeQ Corporation and licensed our iglucose technology to Smart Glucose Meter. In 2014 we also transferred the rights to the GlucoChip technology to VeriTeQ. Pursuant to these agreements, we are due royalties based on future product sales, if any. Should these businesses not generate significant revenues, we will not achieve royalty streams from these sales and licenses. Further, we will continue to seek a license partner for our breath glucose detection system and its underlying patent, which was granted in 2014. If we are unable to find a license or sale partner for this product we may not receive any return from the breath glucose detection system. Implantation of our implantable microchip may be found to cause risks to a person’s health, which could adversely affect sales of our systems that incorporate the implantable microchip. The implantation of the VeriChip, which we sold to VeriTeQ, may be found, or be perceived, to cause risks to a person’s health. Potential or perceived risks include adverse tissue reactions, migration of the microchip and infection from implantation. There have been articles published asserting, despite numerous studies to the contrary, that the implanted microchip causes malignant tumor formation in laboratory animals. If more people are implanted with our implantable microchip, it is possible that these and other risks to health will manifest themselves. Actual or perceived risks to a person’s health associated with the microchip implantation process could result in negative publicity could damage our business reputation, leading to loss in sales of our other systems targeted at the healthcare market which would harm our business and negatively affect our prospects. In connection with its acquisition of the VeriChip business, VeriTeQ agreed to indemnify us for any liabilities relating to the implantable microchip. If VeriTeQ is unable to fulfill indemnity obligations, we would be responsible for payment of such liabilities, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. 14 Risks Related to Our Common Stock Future sales of our common stock may depress the market price of our common stock and cause stockholders to experience dilution. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, including shares issuable on the conversion of convertible notes payable. We may seek additional capital through one or more additional equity or convertible debt transactions in 2015; however, such transactions will be subject to market conditions and there can be no assurance any such transaction will be completed. Current stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interests because of the future issuance of additional shares of our common stock issued pursuant to convertible preferred stock and debt instruments. In the future, we may issue our authorized but previously unissued equity securities, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our present stockholders and the purchasers of our common stock offered hereby. We are currently authorized to issue an aggregate of 975,000,000 shares of capital stock consisting of 970,000,000 shares of common stock and 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock with preferences and rights to be determined by our Board. As of March 19, 2015, there are 221,441,067 shares of our common stock and 1,625 of our Series I preferred stock outstanding. There are 4,696,288 shares of our common stock reserved for issuance pursuant to stock option agreements. We also have 4,490,000 shares of our common stock issuable upon the exercise of outstanding warrants. We also have convertible notes with principal and accrued interest balances of $2,441,213 as of March 19, 2015. These notes and our Series I preferred stock are convertible into common stock in the future at prices determined at the time of conversion. The Series I and convertible notes would convert into shares of common stock, based on the closing bid price of $0.026 on March 19, 2015, as follows: Principal/ Common Share Conversion Liquidation At Current At 25% At 50% At 75% Value Market Discount Discount Discount Series I $1,705,129 1,705,129 1,705,129 1,705,129 1,705,129(1) Convertible Notes 2,441,213 91,841,622 122,455,496 183,683,245 367,366,489(2) $4,146,343 93,546,752 124,160,626 185,388,374 369,071,619 (1) Represents liquidation value, including accrued dividends, on (i) 413 shares of Series I, converted at $0.036; (ii) 75 shares of Series I converted at $0.0250; (iii) 512 shares of Series I converted at $0.0245; and (iv) 625 shares of Series I, converted at $0.027, which are fixed conversion prices. (2) The convertible notes are convertible into common stock of the company at prices determined, in the future, at the time of conversion, at discounts of between 37.5% and 40% of the market price or at the lesser of a fixed amount or discount to market. This table includes common shares conversions at the closing bid price of $0.026 on March 19, 2015, and at discounts of 25%, 50% and 75% from the closing bid price on March 19, 2015. Any future issuance of our equity or equity-backed securities may dilute then-current stockholders’ ownership percentages and could also result in a decrease in the fair market value of our equity securities, because our assets would be owned by a larger pool of outstanding equity. As described above, we may need to raise additional capital through public or private offerings of our common or preferred stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for our common or preferred stock. We may also issue such securities in connection with hiring or retaining employees and consultants (including stock options issued under our equity incentive plans), as payment to providers of goods and services, in connection with future acquisitions or for other business purposes. Our Board may at any time authorize the issuance of additional common or preferred stock without common stockholder approval, subject only to the total number of authorized common and preferred shares set forth in our certificate of incorporation. The terms of equity securities issued by us in future transactions may be more favorable to new investors, and may include dividend and/or liquidation preferences, superior voting rights and the issuance of warrants or other derivative securities, which may have a further dilutive effect. Also, the future issuance of any such additional shares of common or preferred stock or other securities may create downward pressure on the trading price of the common stock. There can be no assurance that any such future issuances will not be at a price (or exercise prices) below the price at which shares of the common stock are then traded. We do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends on our common stock. In July 2008 we declared, and in August 2008 we paid, a special cash dividend of $15.8 million on our capital stock. Any future determination with respect to the payment of dividends will be at the discretion of the Board and will be dependent upon our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, general business conditions, terms of financing arrangements and other factors that our Board may deem relevant. In addition, our Certificates of Designation for shares of Series I Preferred Stock prohibit the payment of cash dividends on our common stock while any such shares of preferred stock are outstanding. 15 Our shares may be defined as "penny stock," the rules imposed on the sale of the shares may affect your ability to resell any shares you may purchase, if at all. Shares of our common stock may be defined as a “penny stock” under the Exchange Act, and rules of the SEC. The Exchange Act and such penny stock rules generally impose additional sales practice and disclosure requirements on broker-dealers who sell our securities to persons other than certain accredited investors who are, generally, institutions with assets in excess of $5,000,000 or individuals with net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000, or $300,000 jointly with spouse, or in transactions not recommended by the broker-dealer. For transactions covered by the penny stock rules, a broker-dealer must make a suitability determination for each purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement prior to the sale. In addition, the broker-dealer must make certain mandated disclosures in penny stock transactions, including the actual sale or purchase price and actual bid and offer quotations, the compensation to be received by the broker-dealer and certain associated persons, and deliver certain disclosures required by the SEC. Consequently, the penny stock rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to make a market in or trade our common stock and may also affect your ability to resell any shares you may purchase in this offering in the public markets. The success and timing of development efforts, clinical trials, regulatory approvals, product introductions, collaboration and licensing arrangements, any termination of development efforts and other material events could cause volatility in our stock price. Since our common stock is thinly traded, its trading price is likely to be highly volatile and could be subject to extreme fluctuations in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including (but not necessarily limited to): ● success or lack of success in being awarded, as a subcontractor to The Boeing Company, the next stage procurement related to the BioWatch system; ● success or lack of success in being awarded research and development contracts with U.S. Government agencies, related to our Firefly Dx product, or otherwise; ● success or lack of success being granted patents for its core biological diagnostic and detection technologies; ● introduction of competitive products into the market; ● receipt of payments of any royalty payments under the sale and licensing agreements related to our legacy healthcare products; ● unfavorable publicity regarding us or our products; ● termination of development efforts of any product under development or any development or collaboration agreement. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also significantly affect the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 