Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2009, and information we provide in our press releases, telephonic reports and other investor communications, may contain forward-looking statements with respect to anticipated future events and our projected financial performance, operations and competitive position that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements and our expectations. Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact revenue, profitability, and growth remain difficult to predict. The factors underlying our forecasts forward-looking statements are dynamic and subject to change. As a result, any forecasts or forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are given and do not necessarily reflect our outlook at any other point in time. Risks Related to Our Business We are exposed to risks associated with the ongoing financial crisis and weakening global economy, which increase the uncertainty of project financing for commercial solar installations and the risk of non-payment from both commercial and residential customers. The continuing tight credit markets and weak global economy are contributing to an ongoing slowdown in the solar industry, which may worsen if these economic conditions are prolonged or deteriorate further. The market for installation of solar power systems depends largely on commercial and consumer capital spending. Economic uncertainty exacerbates negative trends in these areas of spending, and may cause our customers to push out, cancel, or refrain from placing orders, which may reduce our net sales. Difficulties in obtaining capital and deteriorating market conditions may also lead to the inability of some customers to obtain affordable financing, including traditional project financing and tax-incentive based financing and home equity based financing, resulting in lower sales to potential customers with liquidity issues, and may lead to an increase of incidents where our customers are unwilling or unable to pay for systems they purchase, and additional bad debt expense for Akeena. Further, these conditions and uncertainty about future economic conditions make it challenging for us to obtain equity and debt financing to meet our working capital requirements to support our business, forecast our operating results, make business decisions, and identify the risks that may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from the difficult macroeconomic environment, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We may need additional capital in the future to fund the growth of our business, and financing may not be available. Our currently available capital resources and cash flows from operations may be insufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements. Our cash requirements will depend on numerous factors, including the rate of growth of our sales, the timing and levels of products purchased, payment terms and credit limits from manufacturers, the availability and terms of asset-based credit facilities, the timing and level of our accounts receivable collections, and our ability to manage our business profitability. We may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings or enter into new asset-based or other credit facilities, but such financings may dilute our stockholders. We cannot assure you that any additional financing that we may need will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop new products or otherwise respond to competitive pressures. In any such case, our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents A significant portion of our sales and our accounts receivable in recent periods is related to sales of solar power systems that are financed through SunRun and if SunRun fails to provide financing, has financial difficulty or fails to pay us, our operating results could decline. A large portion of our sales and our accounts receivable is related to sales of our systems to SunRun, a company that offers home solar power as a monthly service for consumers. As one of the available financing alternatives, we sell and install residential solar power systems for certain homeowners through SunRun. SunRun pays us for the systems, owns the residential solar system and sells the electricity that is generated from that system for the homeowner. In the year ended December 31, 2009, $9.3 million, or 33.0%, of our net sales were derived from SunRun. As of December 31, 2009, we had $1.4 million in accounts receivable from SunRun, which represented 30.0% of our gross accounts receivable. We anticipate that the percent of sales financed through SunRun will continue to increase in the future. If sales of our solar power systems that are financed through SunRun decline or cease, or if SunRun fails to pay us, our operating results could decline. We are dependent upon our suppliers for the components used in the systems we design and install; and our major suppliers are dependent upon the continued availability and pricing of silicon and other raw materials used in solar modules. The components used in our systems are purchased from a limited number of manufacturers. We source components (such as solar panels and inverters) from manufacturers such as Suntech, Enphase and SMA. We are subject to market prices for the components that we purchase for our installations, which are subject to fluctuation. We cannot ensure that the prices charged by our suppliers will not increase because of changes in market conditions or other factors beyond our control. An increase in the price of components used in our systems could result in an increase in costs to our customers and could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and demand for our services. Our suppliers are dependent upon the availability and pricing of silicon, one of the main materials used in manufacturing solar panels. In the past, the world market for solar panels experienced a shortage of supply due to insufficient availability of silicon. This shortage caused the prices for solar modules to increase. Interruptions in our ability to procure needed components for our systems, whether due to discontinuance by our suppliers, delays or failures in delivery, shortages caused by inadequate production capacity or unavailability, financial failure, or for other reasons, would adversely affect or limit our sales and growth. In addition, increases in the prices of modules could make systems that have been sold but not yet installed unprofitable for us. There is no assurance that we will continue to find qualified manufacturers on acceptable terms and, if we do, there can be no assurance that product quality will continue to be acceptable, which could lead to a loss of sales and revenues. Geographical business expansion efforts we make could result in difficulties in successfully managing our business and consequently harm our financial condition. As part of our business strategy, we may seek to expand into other geographic markets. We face challenges in managing expanding product and service offerings and in integrating acquired businesses with our own. During 2007, we commenced operations at our Bakersfield, Manteca and Santa Rosa offices in California. We commenced operations in Fresno (Clovis), California, through the purchase of customer contracts, and additionally, we opened offices in Lake Forest, Palm Springs, San Diego and Thousand Oaks (Westlake Village), California. During 2008, we opened offices in Connecticut and Colorado and consolidated our California Central Valley operations in Fresno (Clovis), closing offices in Bakersfield and Manteca. In March 2009, we closed our Connecticut and Colorado offices as part of our strategic goal to concentrate our installation business in California and expand our geographic reach through our distribution of Andalay AC panels. In December 2009, we closed our Thousand Oaks (Westlake Village) office and consolidated its operations into our other southern California offices and also moved our Lake Forest operation to Anaheim, California. We may seek additional locations for expansion. We cannot accurately predict the timing, size and success of our expansion efforts and the associated capital commitments that might be required. In addition, expansion efforts involve a number of other risks, including: · failure of the expansion efforts to achieve expected results; · diversion of management’s attention and resources to expansion efforts; and · risks associated with unanticipated events, liabilities or contingencies. Client dissatisfaction or performance problems at a single location could negatively affect our reputation. The inability to integrate and manage a new location could result in dilution, unfavorable accounting charges and difficulties in successfully managing our business. Our Andalay technology may encounter unexpected problems, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our Andalay technology is relatively new and has not been tested in installation settings for a sufficient period of time to prove its long-term effectiveness and benefits. Problems may occur with Andalay that are unexpected and could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. We have been issued U.S. Patent #7,406,800 from the United States Patent and Trademark Office which covers key claims of our Andalay solar panel technology. Several other of our patent applications covering Andalay are currently pending. Ultimately, we may not be able to realize the benefits from any patent that is issued. 10 Table of Contents Because our industry is highly competitive and has low barriers to entry, we may lose market share to larger companies that are better equipped to weather a deterioration in market conditions due to increased competition. Our industry is highly competitive and fragmented, is subject to rapid change and has low barriers to entry. We may in the future compete for potential customers with solar and HVAC systems installers and servicers, electricians, utilities and other providers of solar power equipment or electric power. Some of these competitors may have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources and greater name recognition than we have. We believe that our ability to compete depends in part on a number of factors outside of our control, including: · the ability of our competitors to hire, retain and motivate qualified technical personnel; · the price at which others offer comparable services and equipment; · the extent of our competitors’ responsiveness to client needs; and · installation technology. Competition in the solar power services industry may increase in the future, partly due to low barriers to entry, as well as from other alternative energy sources now in existence or developed in the future. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share and greater competition for qualified technical personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. If we are unable to compete effectively, or if competition results in a deterioration of market conditions, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. Our profitability depends, in part, on our success and brand recognition and we could lose our competitive advantage if we are not able to protect our trademarks and patents against infringement, and any related litigation could be time-consuming and costly. We believe our brand has gained substantial recognition by customers in certain geographic areas. We have registered the “Akeena” and “Andalay” trademarks with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Use of our trademarks or similar trademarks by competitors in geographic areas in which we have not yet operated could adversely affect our ability to use or gain protection for our brand in those markets, which could weaken our brand and harm our business and competitive position. In addition, any litigation relating to protecting our trademarks and patents against infringement could be time consuming and costly. The success of our business depends on the continuing contributions of Barry Cinnamon and other key personnel who may terminate their employment with us at any time, and we will need to hire additional qualified personnel. We rely heavily on the services of Barry Cinnamon, our Chief Executive Officer, as well as several other management personnel. Loss of the services of any such individuals would adversely impact our operations. In addition, we believe our technical personnel represent a significant asset and provide us with a competitive advantage over many of our competitors and that our future success will depend upon our ability to retain these key employees and our ability to attract and retain other skilled financial, engineering, technical and managerial personnel. None of our key personnel are party to any employment agreements with us and management and other employees may voluntarily terminate their employment at any time. We do not currently maintain any “key man” life insurance with respect to any of such individuals. If we are unable to attract, train and retain highly qualified personnel, the quality of our services may decline and we may not successfully execute our internal growth strategies. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to continue to attract, train, motivate and retain highly skilled and experienced employees, including technical personnel. Qualified technical employees periodically are in great demand and may be unavailable in the time frame required to satisfy our customers’ requirements. While we currently have available technical expertise sufficient for the requirements of our business, expansion of our business could require us to employ additional highly skilled technical personnel. We expect competition for such personnel to increase as the market for solar power systems expands. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain sufficient numbers of highly skilled technical employees in the future. The loss of personnel or our inability to hire or retain sufficient personnel at competitive rates of compensation could impair our ability to secure and complete customer engagements and could harm our business. Unexpected warranty expenses or service claims could reduce our profits. We maintain a warranty reserve on our balance sheet for potential warranty or service claims that could occur in the future. This reserve is adjusted based on our ongoing operating experience with equipment and installations. It is possible, perhaps due to bad supplier material or defective installations, that we would have actual expenses substantially in excess of the reserves we maintain. Our failure to accurately predict future warranty claims could result in unexpected profit volatility. 11 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Industry We have experienced technological changes in our industry. Newtechnologies may prove inappropriate and result in liability to us or may not gain market acceptance by our customers. The solar power industry (and the alternative energy industry, in general) is subject to technological change. Our future success will depend on our ability to appropriately respond to changing technologies and changes in function of products and quality. If we adopt products and technologies that are not attractive to consumers, we may not be successful in capturing or retaining a significant share of our market. In addition, some new technologies are relatively untested and unperfected and may not perform as expected or as desired, in which event our adoption of such products or technologies may cause us to lose money. A drop in the retail price of conventional energy or non-solar alternativeenergy sources may negatively impact our profitability. We believe that a customer’s decision to purchase or install solar power capabilities is primarily driven by the cost and return on investment resulting from solar power systems. Fluctuations in economic and market conditions that impact the prices of conventional and non-solar alternative energy sources, such as decreases in the prices of oil and other fossil fuels, could cause the demand for solar power systems to decline, which would have a negative impact on our profitability. Changes in utility electric rates or net metering policies could also have a negative effect on our business. Existing regulations, and changes to such regulations, may presenttechnical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of solar power products, which may significantly reduce demand for our products. Installation of solar power systems are subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with federal and local ordinances, building codes, zoning, environmental protection regulation, utility interconnection requirements for metering and other rules and regulations. We attempt to keep up-to-date about these requirements on a federal, state, and local level, and must design systems to comply with varying standards. Certain cities may have ordinances that prevent or increase the cost of installation of our solar power systems. In addition, new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to solar power systems are unpredictable and may result in significant additional expenses or delays and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for solar energy systems and our services. For example, there currently exist metering caps in certain jurisdictions which effectively limit the aggregate amount of power that may be sold by solar power generators into the power grid. Our business depends on the availability of rebates, tax credits and otherfinancial incentives; reduction, elimination or uncertainty of which would reduce the demand for our services. Many states, including California and New Jersey, offer substantial incentives to offset the cost of solar power systems. These systems can take many forms, including direct rebates, state tax credits, system performance payments and Renewable Energy Credits (RECs). Moreover, the federal government currently offers a 30% tax credit for the installation of solar power systems. Effective 2009, the federal tax credit is 30% (uncapped) for residences. The federal government also currently offers commercial customers the option to elect a 30% grant in lieu of the 30% tax credit if they begin construction on the system before December 31, 2010, and the system is put into service by December 31, 2017. Businesses may also elect to accelerate the depreciation on their system over five years. Uncertainty about the introduction of, reduction in or elimination of such incentives or delays or interruptions in the implementation of favorable federal or state laws could substantially increase the cost of our systems to our customers, resulting in significant reductions in demand for our services, which would negatively impact our sales. If solar power technology is not suitable for widespread adoption orsufficient demand for solar power products does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipate, our sales would decline and we would be unable to achieve or sustain profitability. The market for solar power products is emerging and rapidly evolving, and its future success is uncertain. Many factors will influence the widespread adoption of solar power technology and demand for solar power products, including: · cost effectiveness of solar power technologies as compared with conventional and non-solar alternative energy technologies; · performance and reliability of solar power products as compared with conventional and non-solar alternative energy products; · capital expenditures by customers that tend to decrease if the U.S. economy slows; and · availability of government subsidies and incentives. If solar power technology proves unsuitable for widespread commercial deployment or if demand for solar power products fails to develop sufficiently, we would be unable to generate enough revenue to achieve and sustain profitability. In addition, demand for solar power products in the markets and geographic regions we target may not develop or may develop more slowly than we anticipate. 12 Table of Contents Risks Relating to our Common Stock If the trading price of our common stock falls, our common stock could be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. We must meet NASDAQ’s continuing listing requirements in order for our common stock to remain listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. The listing criteria we must meet include, but are not limited to, a minimum bid price for our common stock of $1.00 per share. Failure to meet NASDAQ’s continued listing criteria may result in the delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Capital Market. A delisting from the NASDAQ Capital Market will make the trading market for our common stock less liquid, and will also make us ineligible to use Form S-3 to register the sale of shares of our common stock or to register the resale of our securities held by certain of our security holders with the SEC, thereby making it more difficult and expensive for us to register our common stock or other securities and raise additional capital. Our stockholders may be diluted by the exercise of outstanding warrants to purchase common stock. Warrants originally issued in March 2007 and June 2007 for the purchase of 588,010 shares of our common stock at a weighted-average exercise price of $3.83 per share, were subject to an adjustment triggered by our equity offering in March 2009, such that they became exercisable for an aggregate of 2,618,943 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $0.86 per share. The number of shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of those warrants, and therefore the dilution of existing common stockholders, is subject to increase as a result of certain sales of our securities that trigger the antidilution provisions of those warrants at a price below the applicable exercise price of those warrants. Future exercises of those warrants may dilute the ownership interests of our current stockholders. Future sales of common stock by our existing stockholders may cause our stock price to fall. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by our existing stockholders of shares of common stock in the market, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of March 3, 2010, we had 36,779,212 shares of common stock outstanding (which includes 694,407 unvested shares of restricted stock granted to our employees), and we had warrants to purchase 5,417,667 shares of common stock and options to purchase 2,518,529 shares of common stock outstanding. All of the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of our outstanding warrants and any vested options will be freely tradable without restriction under the federal securities laws unless purchased by our affiliates. Our stock price may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses forinvestors. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could fluctuate widely in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: · technological innovations or new products and services by us or our competitors; · announcements or press releases relating to the energy sector or to our business or prospects; · additions or departures of key personnel; · regulatory, legislative or other developments affecting us or the solar power industry generally; · our ability to execute our business plan; · operating results that fall below expectations; · volume and timing of customer orders; · industry developments; · economic and other external factors; and · period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also significantly affect the market price of our common stock. 13 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Company Our Chief Executive Officer, Barry Cinnamon, beneficially owns a significant number of shares of our common stock, which gives him significant influence over decisions on which our stockholders may vote and which may discourage an acquisition of the Company. Barry Cinnamon, our Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owns, in the aggregate, approximately 20.8% of our outstanding common stock as of March 3, 2010. The interests of our Chief Executive Officer may differ from the interests of other stockholders. As a result, Mr. Cinnamon’s voting power may have a significant influence on the outcome of virtually all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, irrespective of how our other stockholders may vote, including the following actions: · election of our directors; · the amendment of our Certificate of Incorporation or By-laws; · the merger of our company or the sale of our assets or other corporate transaction; and · controlling the outcome of any other matter submitted to the stockholders for vote. Mr. Cinnamon’s stock ownership may discourage a potential acquirer from seeking to acquire shares of our common stock or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company, which in turn could reduce our stock price or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over our stock price. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the federal securitieslaws, which impose additional burdens on us. We are a public reporting company and, accordingly, subject to the information and reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and other federal securities laws, including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As a public company, these rules and regulations resulted in increased compliance costs since 2008 and make certain activities more time consuming and costly. Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes our board to create new seriesof preferred stock without further approval by our stockholders, which could adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority to fix and determine the relative rights and preferences of preferred stock. Our Board of Directors also has the authority to issue preferred stock without further stockholder approval. As a result, our Board of Directors could authorize the issuance of new series of preferred stock that would grant to holders the preferred right to our assets upon liquidation, the right to receive dividend payments before dividends are distributed to the holders of common stock and the right to the redemption of the shares, together with a premium, prior to the redemption of our common stock. In addition, our Board of Directors could authorize the issuance of new series of preferred stock that has greater voting power than our common stock or that is convertible into our common stock, which could decrease the relative voting power of our common stock or result in dilution to our existing stockholders. 14 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 