ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to trials and uncertainties. In addition, risks and uncertainties could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report and other documents we file with the SEC. The risks that we regard as the most relevant to our business are identified below. Risks Related to Our Business We had a net loss of $301.7 million from continuing operations in 2011 due to unprecedented catastrophe activity in 2011 and difficult business conditions, each of which could continue or recur in future periods We had a net loss from continuing operations of $301.7 million in 2011. In 2010, we had net income from continuing operations of $83.8 million, a decrease of 65.5% from 2009. This trend reflects unprecedented catastrophic events and difficult business conditions we and the industry were impacted by during this period. Including the loss from discontinued operations of $21.7 million, our results for 2011 were a net loss attributable to Flagstone of $326.1 million, compared with net income attributable to Flagstone of $97.1 million in 2010. Our 2011 net loss from continuing operations is reflected in our 2011 loss ratio and combined ratio of 118.4% and 153.6%, respectively. Ratios that are above 100% mean that we pay out more in claims and expenses than we earn in premiums. As of December 31, 2011, our loss and loss adjustment expense reserves from continuing operations were $897.4 million compared to $583.3 million at December 31, 2010. This increase in our loss and loss adjustment expense reserves reflects our estimate of losses incurred up to December 31, 2011, and represents our expectation of the ultimate settlement and administration of costs of the claims incurred. Because of the significant amount of time that can lapse between our assumption of risk, the occurrence of a loss event, the reporting of the loss event to the primary company, cedent and/or reinsurer and the ultimate payment of a claim, our ultimate liability will likely be different from our estimate and could be materially greater. We also had $473.0 million and $353.8 million of liabilities associated with our discontinued operations held for sale at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. In addition, we believe one of our key performance indicators is diluted book value per common share plus accumulated distributions, which was $11.62 as of December 31, 2011, a 27.7 % decrease from December 31, 2010. This reflects the decrease in our total shareholders’ equity. Our ability to return to profitability in the future depends in part on our ability to restructure our business, including completing our announced divestiture plans for Lloyd’s and Island Heritage, and successfully implementing our announced cost cutting measures. We are refocusing our underwriting strategy on businesses that produce attractive returns on equity, while reducing our focus on businesses that absorb capital but produce less attractive returns. However, businesses that produce attractive returns are highly competitive and because of our significant losses in 2011 and diminished capital, we might not be able to effectively compete in these lines of business. On March 1, 2012, Fitch Ratings noted that their concern regarding their ratings is heightened by the Company’s modest size because it presents the possibility that further capital erosion could compromise the Company’s competitive viability. In addition, the insurance and reinsurance industries have historically been cyclical businesses with intense competition, often based on price. If we or the market generally are unable to operate in a favorable pricing environment, we may not be able to continue our business at historical levels, or return to historic levels of profitability. In October 2011, we announced a restructuring of our business, including the proposed divestiture of our Lloyd’s and Island Heritage operations (the “Proposed Divestitures”), and other cost savings initiatives. The failure to successfully implement the restructuring program, including completing the Proposed Divestitures and cost savings initiatives on acceptable terms in the timeframe anticipated, or at all, could materially adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. In October 2011, we announced a restructuring of our business, including the Proposed Divestitures and other cost savings initiatives. To consummate any of the Proposed Divestitures we need to identify potential purchasers, enter into definitive agreements with them and then consummate the transactions. We may not be able to do so on acceptable terms or in the timeframe anticipated, or at all. Even though Lloyd’s and Island Heritage are classified as discontinued operations for accounting purposes, until completion of the applicable sale, we will own those businesses, including all of the liabilities associated therewith. We had $473.0 million and $353.8 million of liabilities associated with our discontinued operations held for sale at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. In addition to these liabilities, the Lloyd’s and Island Heritage businesses are subject to the risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report, all of which may make it more difficult to sell them on acceptable terms, if at all. For example, a rise in claims from severe catastrophic events related to Lloyd’s or Island Heritage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and prevent or delay the completion of the applicable Proposed Divestitures. Until completion of the applicable sale, our financial position could be materially and adversely impacted by these businesses even though they are classified as discontinued operations. These businesses may also be negatively impacted by the announcement of our divestiture plans and therefore diminish in value if the Proposed Divestitures are not completed in a timely manner. In its ratings action on March 1, 2012, Fitch noted that a failure to complete the proposed divestitures in the Company’s publicly targeted time frames at levels that approximate or exceed each entity’s current carrying value on the Company’s balance sheet is a key ratings trigger that could result in a ratings downgrade. In addition to the Proposed Divestitures, we have undertaken significant cost cutting measures, which we believe will improve our competitive position, including closing our offices in Dubai and Puerto Rico and pursuing the downsizing of our global operations through reduction in workforce in India and South Africa and additional streamlining of our global back office, support, analytical and other operations to one location in Halifax, Canada. 25 Index We may also be subject to additional risks associated with the Proposed Divestitures and cost savings initiatives, including: • the occurrence of any event, change or other circumstances that could prevent or delay any of the Proposed Divestitures or the benefits of the cost savings initiatives; • our or Lloyd’s or Island Heritage’s financial strength ratings being put on review or downgraded; • our management having spent a significant amount of their time and efforts directed toward the Proposed Divestitures and cost savings initiatives, which time and efforts otherwise would have been spent on our business and other opportunities that could have been beneficial to us; • substantial costs relating to the Proposed Divestitures and cost savings initiatives, such as legal, accounting and filing fees, much of which must be paid regardless of whether the any of the Proposed Divestitures is completed or the benefits of the cost savings initiatives are realized; • the possibility that the benefits of strategic focus, enhanced business flexibility, cost savings and operating efficiencies that we expect as of the date of this Annual Report from the Proposed Divestitures and cost savings initiatives will not be fully realized in the timeframe anticipated, or at all; • uncertainties relating to the Proposed Divestitures and cost savings initiatives may adversely affect our relationships with, and ability to retain, our employees, vendors and customers; and • the outcome of any litigation or judicial actions that have been or may be instituted against us, our Board of Directors and others relating to any of the Proposed Divestitures or cost savings initiatives or any settlement of such litigation or judicial actions. Accordingly, investors should not place undue reliance on the occurrence of any of the Proposed Divestitures or the benefits of our cost savings initiatives. The realization of any of these risks may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or the market price of our common stock. The financial strength rating of Flagstone may be revised downward which could affect our standing among brokers and customers, result in a substantial loss of business and impede our ability to conduct business. Ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance and reinsurance companies. Ratings play a significant role in the perception of a market participant’s financial strength, one of the key factors in our ability to compete effectively. Our financial strength is rated by a variety of rating agencies, and these ratings are designed to reflect our ability to meet our financial obligations under our policies. These ratings do not refer to our ability to meet non-reinsurance and non-insurance obligations and are not a recommendation to purchase any policy or contract issued by us or to buy, hold or sell our securities. Each of Flagstone Suisse’s, Island Heritage’s, Flagstone Alliance’s and Flagstone Africa’s financial strength rating is subject to periodic review by, and may be revised downward or revoked at the sole discretion of, the rating agencies in response to a variety of factors, including the risk factors described in this section. These factors include our ability to generate a reasonable and sustainable level of profitability, our dependence on retrocessional support, the relationship between our risk appetite and our available capital, our ability to implement expense reduction initiatives and, most importantly, our overall financial flexibility. With regard to FSML, as all Lloyd’s policies are ultimately backed by this common security, a single market rating can be applied across Lloyd’s. If our financial strength ratings are reduced from their levels as of the date of this Annual Report, our competitive position in the reinsurance and insurance industries would suffer, and it would be more difficult for us to market our products. A downgrade could result in a significant reduction in the number of reinsurance and insurance contracts we write and in a substantial loss of business as our customers, and brokers that place such business, move to other competitors with higher financial strength ratings, as well as resulting in negative consequences for our results of operations, cash flows, competitive position and business prospects. On March 1, 2012, Fitch announced that key ratings triggers that could result in a ratings downgrade would include a failure to significantly reduce underwriting leverage and generate positive earnings momentum, or if the proposed divestitures are not completed within the Company’s publicly targeted time frames at levels that approximate or exceed each entity’s current carrying value on the Company’s balance sheet. A downgrade also may require us to establish trusts, provide collateral or post letters of credit for ceding company clients. It is common for our reinsurance contracts to contain terms that would allow the ceding companies to cancel the contract for the remaining portion of our period of obligation if the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries are downgraded below A- by A.M. Best or the equivalent by Moody’s. As of the date of this Annual Report, virtually all of our contracts permit special termination if our 26 Index financial strength rating is downgraded. Whether a ceding company would exercise this cancellation right would depend, among other factors, on the reason for such downgrade, the extent of the downgrade, the prevailing market conditions and the pricing and availability of replacement reinsurance coverage. Therefore, we cannot predict in advance the extent to which this special termination right would be exercised, if at all, or what effect any such special terminations would have on our financial condition or future operations, but such effect could be material. The indentures governing our Deferrable Interest Debentures would restrict us from declaring or paying dividends on our common shares if the Company (1) is downgraded by A.M. Best to a financial strength rating below A- and fails to renew more than 51% of its net premiums written during any twelve-month period; (2) is downgraded to a financial strength rating below A- and sells more than 51% of its rights to renew net premiums written over the course of a twelve-month period; (3) is downgraded to a financial strength rating below B++; or (4) withdraws its financial strength rating from A.M. Best. Our reinsurance contracts are subject to special termination under certain circumstances. If our reinsurance contracts are cancelled, we are required to return unearned premiums to the cedent. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, all of the underwriting premiums from our continuing operations came from reinsurance contracts. We sell reinsurance contracts to insurance companies, referred to as cedents, as part of their risk management. Our reinsurance contracts permit special termination by the cedent upon the occurrence of certain events, including any of the following: a change of control of our insurance subsidiary or us, our insurance subsidiaries ceasing active underwriting operations, our insurance subsidiary being placed under regulatory supervision, our insurance subsidiary failing to maintain at least an A- financial strength rating from A.M. Best and at least an A3 financial strength rating from Moody’s, our insurance subsidiary having a financial strength rating lower than at the time the reinsurance contract was entered into and our insurance subsidiary suffering losses in policyholders’ surplus in excess of a specified threshold, which in some cases is as low as 15%. A significant portion of our reinsurance contracts give cedents special termination rights immediately as a result of our 2011 performance or at any time until expiration and, if terminated, we would be required to return unearned premiums with respect to such contracts. We cannot predict in advance the extent to which our cedents will exercise their termination rights, if at all; however, the impact of terminations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Special termination could also make it more difficult for us to continue our business at historical levels, or at all. Claims arising from unpredictable and severe catastrophic events have and could continue to reduce our earnings and shareholders’ equity and limit our ability to write new insurance policies. Our reinsurance and insurance operations expose us to claims arising out of unpredictable natural and other catastrophic events, such as hurricanes, windstorms, tsunamis, severe winter weather, earthquakes, floods, fires and explosions. In recent years, the frequency and severity of major weather-related catastrophes has increased substantially. The extent of losses from catastrophes is a function of both the number and severity of the insured events and the total amount of insured exposure in the areas affected. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the net incurred losses on significant catastrophic events were approximately $450.6 million compared to $185.7 million in the year ended December 31, 2010. In 2011, our geographic exposure to Asia and Australia led to significant incurred losses from catastrophes such as earthquakes, floods and a tsunami in that region. Increases in the value and concentrations of insured property, the effects of inflation and changes in cyclical weather patterns may increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the future. Claims from catastrophic events have reduced our earnings substantially and may continue to reduce our earnings in the future. They also have caused and are expected to continue to cause substantial volatility in our results of operations for any fiscal quarter or year, which could adversely affect our financial condition, possibly to the extent of eliminating our shareholders’ equity. This volatility is compounded by accounting conventions that do not permit reinsurers to reserve for such catastrophic events until they occur. We expect that increases in the values and concentration of insured property will increase the severity of such occurrences per year in the future and that climate change may increase the frequency of severe weather events. Underwriting is inherently a matter of judgment, involving important assumptions about matters that are unpredictable and beyond our control, and for which historical experience and probability analysis may not provide sufficient guidance. In addition, in our reinsurance business, we rely on our cedents’ underwriting judgment, which may cause additional difficulties in accurately assessing the risk associated with our contracts. One or more catastrophic or other events have resulted in claims in the past that have substantially exceeded our expectations and may do so in the future. We may experience significant losses on short notice, which may require us to liquidate our investments rapidly and may limit our ability to write new reinsurance and insurance policies. Catastrophes such as hurricanes, windstorms, tsunamis, severe winter weather, earthquakes, floods, fires and explosions are difficult to predict. By reinsuring the damages resulting from these catastrophes, we subject ourselves to large potential claims that may arise on short notice. To meet our obligations with respect to those claims, we may be forced to liquidate some of our investments rapidly, which may involve selling a portion of our investments into a depressed market. Those sales would decrease our liquidity, our returns from our investments, and our underwriting capacity. 27 Index If our risk management and loss limitation methods fail to adequately manage our exposure to losses from catastrophic events, the losses we incur from a catastrophic event could be materially higher than our expectations and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We manage our exposure to catastrophic losses by analyzing the probability and severity of the occurrence of catastrophic events and the impact of such events on our overall reinsurance and investment portfolio. We use various tools to analyze and manage the reinsurance exposures we assume from ceding companies and risks from a catastrophic event that could impact on our investment portfolio. Among the most important of these is proprietary risk modeling software which we have developed and utilize as of the date of this Annual Report, and on which we expect to rely on to an increasing extent over time. Our proprietary risk modeling software enables us to assess the adequacy of risk pricing and to monitor our overall exposure to risk in correlated geographic zones. We cannot assure you that the models and assumptions used by the software will accurately predict losses in all situations. Further, we cannot assure you that it is free of defects in the modeling logic or in the software code. In addition, much of the information that we enter into our risk modeling software is based on third-party data that we believe but cannot be certain is reliable, and estimates and assumptions that are dependent on many variables. Assumptions relate to loss adjustment expenses, insurance-to-value, storm intensity in the aftermath of weather-related catastrophes and demand surge, which is the temporary inflation of costs for building materials and labor resulting from increased demand for rebuilding services in the aftermath of a catastrophe. Accordingly, if the estimates and assumptions that we enter into our proprietary risk model are incorrect, or if our proprietary risk model proves to be an inaccurate forecasting tool, the losses we might incur from an actual catastrophe could be materially higher than our expectation of losses generated from modeled catastrophe scenarios, and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We also seek to limit our loss exposure through loss limitation provisions in our policies, such as limitations on the amount of losses that can be claimed under a policy, limitations or exclusions from coverage and provisions relating to choice of forum, which are intended to assure that our policies are legally interpreted as we intend. We cannot assure you that these contractual provisions will be enforceable in the manner we expect or that disputes relating to coverage will be resolved in our favor. If the loss limitation provisions in our policies are not enforceable or disputes arise concerning the application of such provisions, the losses we might incur from a catastrophic event could be materially higher than our expectations and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to adequately assess and reserve for the increased frequency and severity of catastrophes due to environmental factors including climate change, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. To assess our loss exposure, we rely on natural catastrophe models that are built partly on science, partly on historical data and partly on professional judgment of our employees and other industry specialists. Although the accuracy of the models has significantly improved in the last few years, they still yield significant variations in loss estimates due to the quality of underlying data and assumptions. Interpretation of modeling results remains subjective, and none of the existing models reflects our policy language, demand surges and other storm-specific factors such as where the storms will actually travel. There is little consensus in the scientific community regarding the effect of global environmental factors on catastrophes. Climatologists concur that heat from the ocean drives hurricanes, but they cannot agree on how much it changes the annual outlook. In addition, scientists have recently recorded rising sea temperatures which may result in higher frequency and severity of windstorms. It is unclear whether rising sea temperatures are part of a longer cycle and if they are caused or aggravated by man-made pollution or other factors. Recent scientific studies have indicated that the frequency of hurricanes has increased and may further increase in the future relative to the historical experience over the past 100 years. We continuously monitor and adjust, as we believe appropriate, our risk management models to reflect our judgment of how to interpret current developments and information, such as these studies. However, it is possible that, even after these adjustments, we have underestimated the frequency or severity of hurricanes or other catastrophes. Given the scientific uncertainty about the causes of increased frequency and severity of catastrophes and the lack of adequate predictive tools, we may not be able to adequately model the associated losses, which would adversely affect our ability to return to and sustain profitability or continue our business at historical levels, or at all. If actual renewals of our existing contracts do not meet expectations, our premiums written in future years and our future results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Many of our contracts are generally for a one-year term. In our financial forecasting process, we make assumptions about the renewal of our prior year’s contracts. The insurance and reinsurance industries have historically been cyclical businesses with intense competition, often based on price. If actual renewals do not meet expectations or if we choose not to write on a renewal basis because of pricing conditions, our premiums written in future years and our future operations would be materially adversely affected. This risk is especially prevalent in the first quarter of each year when a larger number of reinsurance contracts are subject to renewal. 28 Index The insurance and reinsurance business is historically cyclical, and we expect to experience periods with excess underwriting capacity which may result in fewer contracts written, lower premium rates, increased expenses for customer acquisition and retention, and less favorable policy terms and conditions. The insurance and reinsurance industries have historically been cyclical businesses. Reinsurers and insurers have experienced significant fluctuations in operating results due to competition, frequency of occurrence or severity of catastrophic events, levels of underwriting capacity, general economic conditions and other factors. The supply of reinsurance and insurance is related to prevailing prices, the level of insured losses and the level of industry surplus which, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return on investments being earned in the insurance and reinsurance industries. As a result, the reinsurance and insurance business historically has been characterized by periods of intense competition on price and policy terms due to excessive underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permit favorable premium rates and policy terms and conditions. These cycles have varied by line of business as the level of supply and demand for any particular class of reinsurance and insurance risk does not always coincide with that for other classes of risk. Although we are refocusing our underwriting strategy on businesses that produce attractive returns on equity, while reducing our focus on businesses that absorb capital but produce less attractive returns, our efforts may not coincide with the level of supply and demand for the products on which we are focused. We will also be more dependent on certain classes of reinsurance, which will increase the impact of industry cyclicality on our business and results of operations. If we underestimate our loss reserves, so that they are inadequate to cover our ultimate liability for losses, the underestimation could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are required to maintain adequate reserves to cover our estimated ultimate liabilities for loss and loss adjustment expenses. These reserves are estimates based on actuarial and statistical projections of what we believe the settlement and administration of claims will cost based on facts and circumstances then known to us. Our success depends on our ability to accurately assess the risks associated with the businesses and properties that we reinsure. If unpredictable catastrophic events occur, or if we fail to adequately manage our exposure to losses or fail to adequately estimate our future reserve requirements, our actual loss and loss adjustment expenses may deviate, perhaps substantially, from our future reserve estimates. Loss and loss adjustment expense reserves (or loss reserves) are typically comprised of case reserves and IBNR reserves. Our IBNR reserves include a provision for unknown future development on loss and loss adjustment expenses which are known to us. However, under U.S. GAAP, we are not permitted to establish loss reserves with respect to our property catastrophe reinsurance until an event which gives rise to a claim occurs. As a result, only loss reserves applicable to losses incurred up to the reporting date may be set aside on our financial statements, with no allowance for the provision of loss reserves to account for possible other future losses with respect to our property catastrophe reinsurance. Our loss reserve estimates do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Rather, they are estimates of what we expect the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost. These estimates are based upon actuarial and statistical projections and on our assessment of currently available data, predictions of future developments and estimates of future trends and other variable factors such as inflation. Establishing an appropriate level of our loss reserve estimates is an inherently uncertain process. It is likely that the ultimate liability will be greater or less than these estimates and that, at times, this variance will be material. Our future reserve estimates are refined as experience develops and claims are reported and settled. In addition, as a broker market reinsurer, reserving for our business can involve added uncertainty. Because we depend on information from ceding companies, there is a time lag inherent in reporting information from the primary insurer to us, and ceding companies have differing reserving practices. Moreover, these uncertainties are greater for reinsurers like us than for reinsurers with a longer operating history because we do not yet have an established loss history. As of December 31, 2011, our loss reserves for our continuing operations were $897.4 million, compared to $583.3 million as of December 31, 2010. Because of the uncertainty associated with loss reserves, it is possible that our estimates for reserves at any given time could prove inadequate. To the extent we determine that actual losses and loss adjustment expenses from events which have occurred exceed our expectations and loss reserves reflected in our financial statements, we will be required to immediately reflect these changes as we did in 2011. In 2011, this caused a sudden and material increase in our liabilities and a reduction in our profitability, including operating losses and reduction of capital, and may do so in the future. It could also materially restrict our ability to write new business and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A failure to attract and retain key personnel could impede the implementation of our business strategy, reduce our revenues and decrease our operational effectiveness. Our success substantially depends upon our ability to attract and retain qualified employees and upon the ability of our senior management and other key employees to implement our business strategy. We believe there are only a limited number of available qualified executives in the business lines in which we compete. We rely substantially upon the services of David Brown, our Chief Executive Officer; Patrick Boisvert, our Chief Financial Officer; Gary Prestia, our Chief Executive Officer of Flagstone Representatives (US) Inc. and Chairman of Mosaic Underwriting Services Inc. (“Mosaic NY”); Guy Swayne, our Executive Vice President of Flagstone Réassurance Suisse SA; and David Flitman, our Executive Director of Global Property Underwriting, among other key employees. Although we are not aware of any planned departures, the loss of any of their services or the services of other 29 Index members of our management team or difficulty in attracting and retaining other talented personnel could impede the further implementation of our business strategy, reduce our revenues and decrease our operational effectiveness. Although we have an employment agreement with each of the above named executives, there is a possibility that these employment agreements may not be enforceable in the event any of these employees leave. The employment agreement for Mr. Brown provides that either party may terminate the agreement upon 365 days’ advance written notice, the employment agreements with Messrs. Prestia, Swayne, Boisvert and Flitman provide that either party may terminate the agreement upon 180 days’ advance written notice. As of the date of this Annual Report we do not maintain key man life insurance policies with respect to these or any of our other employees. Our success has and will continue to depend, in substantial part, upon our ability to attract and retain our team of underwriters in various business lines. Although we are not aware of any planned departures, the loss of one or more of our senior underwriters could adversely impact our business by, for example, making it more difficult to retain clients or other business contacts whose relationship depends in part on the service of the departing personnel. In general, the loss of key services of any members of our current underwriting teams may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are dependent on the policies, procedures and expertise of ceding companies; these companies may fail to accurately assess the risks they underwrite, which may lead us to inaccurately assess the risks we assume. As a result, we could face significant underwriting losses on these contracts. Because we participate in reinsurance markets, we do not separately evaluate each of the individual risks assumed under reinsurance treaties. This is common among reinsurers. Therefore, the success of our underwriting efforts depends, in part, upon the policies, procedures and expertise of the ceding companies making the original underwriting decisions. We face the risk that these ceding companies may fail to accurately assess the risks that they underwrite initially, which, in turn, may lead us to inaccurately assess the risks we assume. If we fail to establish and receive appropriate premium rates, we could face significant underwriting losses on these contracts. We depend on a small number of reinsurance and insurance brokers and agents for a large portion of our revenues, and the loss of business from one of these reinsurance or insurance brokers and agents could limit our ability to write new reinsurance and insurance policies and reduce our revenues. We market our reinsurance and insurance on a worldwide basis primarily through reinsurance brokers and insurance brokers and agents, and we depend on a small number of reinsurance brokers and insurance brokers and agents for a large portion of our revenues. Since we commenced operations in December 2005, substantially all of our gross premiums written were sourced through brokers. The following brokers, Aon Benfield (26.5%), Guy Carpenter & Company, Inc. (27.0%) and Willis Group Holdings Ltd. (13.8%), provided a total of 67.3% of our gross premiums written for the year ended December 31, 2011. Affiliates of these and other brokers have historically co-sponsored the formation of reinsurance companies that may compete with us, and these brokers may favor their own reinsurers over other companies. Loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided by one or more of these brokers could limit our ability to write new reinsurance policies and reduce our revenues. Because payments are frequently made and received through reinsurance and insurance brokers, we could incur liabilities to ceding insurers regardless of fault and lose our recourse to collect payments from ceding insurers. In accordance with industry practice, we frequently pay amounts owed on claims under our policies to reinsurance and insurance brokers, and these brokers, in turn, pay these amounts to the insureds and the ceding insurers that have reinsured a portion of their liabilities with us. In some jurisdictions, if a broker fails to make such a payment, we may remain liable to the ceding insurer or insured for the deficiency. Conversely, in certain jurisdictions, when the ceding insurer or insured pays premiums to reinsurance or insurance brokers for payment to us, these premiums are considered to have been paid and the ceding insurer or insured will no longer be liable to us for those amounts, regardless of whether we have received the premiums. Consequently, consistent with industry practice, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with reinsurance and insurance brokers. Consolidation in the insurance industry could adversely impact us. We believe that many insurance industry participants are seeking to consolidate. These consolidated entities may try to use their enhanced market power to negotiate price reductions for our products and services. If competitive pressures reduce our prices, we would expect to write less business. As the insurance industry consolidates, competition for customers will become more intense and the importance of acquiring and properly servicing each customer will become greater. We could incur greater expenses relating to customer acquisition and retention, further reducing our operating margins. In addition, insurance companies that merge may be able to spread their risks across a larger capital base so that they require less reinsurance. The number of companies offering retrocessional reinsurance may decline. Reinsurance intermediaries could also consolidate, potentially adversely impacting our ability to access business and distribute our products. We could also experience more robust competition from larger, better capitalized competitors. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business or our results of operation. We may encounter difficulties maintaining the information technology systems necessary to run our business which could result in 30 Index a loss or delay of revenues, higher than expected loss levels, diversion of management resources, harm to our reputation or an increase in costs. The performance of our information technology systems is critical to our business and reputation and our ability to process transactions and provide high quality customer service. Such systems are and will continue to be a very important part of our underwriting process. We license the catastrophe modeling software of AIR Worldwide and Risk Management Solutions Inc., which are the two major vendors of industry-standard catastrophe modeling software, and we enhance the output from these models with our proprietary software. We cannot be certain that we will be able to replace these service providers or consultants, if necessary, without slowing our underwriting response time, or that our proprietary technology will operate as intended. Any defect or error in our information technology systems could result in a loss or delay of revenues, higher than expected loss levels, diversion of management resources, harm to our reputation or an increase in costs. Failure to protect the confidential information of our brokers, customers, and our internal and external networks against security breaches or failure to comply with any and all privacy or security laws and regulations could damage our reputation, brand and business. Our failure to prevent security breaches could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and operational results. We hold certain proprietary and confidential information about our business as well as private information about our brokers and customers within secure environments. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to effect the secure transmission of confidential information where warranted. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology used by us to protect confidential information. In addition, any party who is able to illicitly obtain access to our information technology system(s) could potentially access proprietary or confidential information. Despite our significant efforts to secure these communications and protect them from illicit breaches, we may not be able to prevent third parties, such as hackers or criminal organizations, from stealing information provided by our brokers and customers to us through electronic communications. In addition, our third-party service providers may violate their confidentiality obligations and disclose information about our brokers and customers, actions which are beyond our control. Any compromise of our security or material violation of a non-disclosure obligation could damage our reputation and brand and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, which would substantially harm our business and results of operations. In addition, anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may be unable to purchase reinsurance for our own account on commercially acceptable terms or to collect under any reinsurance we have purchased. We acquire reinsurance purchased for our own account to mitigate the effects of large or multiple losses on our financial condition. In 2011, we substantially increased the amount of reinsurance we purchase for our own account. From time to time, market conditions have limited, and in some cases prevented, insurers and reinsurers from obtaining the types and amounts of reinsurance they consider adequate for their business needs. For example, following the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, terms and conditions in the reinsurance markets generally became less attractive to buyers of such coverage. Similar conditions occurred as a result of Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma in 2005 and Ike and Gustav in 2008, and may occur in the future, and we may not be able to purchase reinsurance in the areas and for the amounts required or desired. Even if reinsurance is generally available, we may not be able to negotiate terms that we deem appropriate or acceptable or to obtain coverage from entities with satisfactory financial resources. Our inability to obtain adequate reinsurance or other protection for our own account could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The impairment of financial institutions increases our counterparty risk. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial service industry, including brokers and dealers, banks and other institutions which have experienced deterioration and volatility as a result of the most recent financial crisis. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty. In addition, with respect to secured transactions, our credit risk may be exacerbated when our collateral cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to it. We also may have exposure to these financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt instruments, derivative transactions and equity investments. Any such losses or impairments to the carrying value of these assets could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns or losses which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Any change in interest rates, abrupt changes in credit markets or volatility in the equity and debt markets could result in significant losses in the fair value of our investment portfolio. A portion of our income is derived from our invested assets. As a result, our operating results depend in part on the performance of our investment portfolio, as well as the ability of our investment managers to effectively implement our investment strategy. 31 Index The net investment income derived from our invested assets was $36.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the total return on invested assets was 0.7% compared to 4.2% for the year ended December 31, 2010. The change in the return on invested assets of (3.5)% during the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010 is primarily due to a higher impact of widening credit spreads, lower portfolio duration during the year and the negative performance on investment funds. Our investment policies seek capital appreciation and thus will be subject to market-wide risks and fluctuations, as well as to risks inherent in particular securities. In particular, the volatility of our claims may force us to liquidate securities, which could impact our investment portfolio. Our investment performance may vary substantially over time, and we cannot assure you that we will achieve our investment objectives. Investment returns are an important part of our growth in diluted book value, and fluctuations in the fixed income or equity markets could impair our financial condition and results of operations. A significant period of time normally elapses between the receipt of insurance premiums and the disbursement of insurance claims. We cannot assure you that we will successfully match the structure of our investments with our operating subsidiaries’ liabilities under their reinsurance and insurance contracts. If our calculations with respect to these reinsurance liabilities are incorrect, or if we improperly structure our investments to match such liabilities, we could be forced to liquidate investments in order to pay these liabilities. Investment results will also be affected by general economic conditions, instability in the Eurozone, market volatility, interest rate fluctuations, liquidity and credit risks beyond our control. The ongoing financial position in Europe remains uncertain and unpredictable, and any deterioration in the situation which is unremedied for any period of time by government policy measures, could lead to recession in Europe and elsewhere. Approximately 27.0% of our investments are denominated in Euros and are substantially all hedged back to U.S dollars. Nevertheless, the withdrawal of a country from the Eurozone or the overall collapse of the Euro could potentially diminish the value of our investments and materially reduce our investment returns. In addition, the need for liquidity may result in investment returns below our expectations. With respect to certain of our investments, we are subject to pre-payment or reinvestment risk. In particular, our fixed maturity portfolio is subject to reinvestment risk and as at December 31, 2011, 20.7% of our fixed maturity portfolio comprised mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities which are subject to prepayment risk. A significant increase in interest rates could result in significant losses, realized or unrealized, in the fair value of our investment portfolio and, consequently, could have an adverse affect on our results of operations. Further, our portfolio of fixed income securities may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. In addition, we are generally exposed to changes in the level or volatility of equity prices that affect the value of securities or instruments that derive their value from a particular equity security, a basket of equity securities or a stock index. As of the date of this annual report, our exposure to equities and other non-investment grade fixed income investments is limited to 0.4% of assets. These conditions are outside of our control and could adversely affect the value of our investments and our financial condition and results of operations. Profitability may be adversely impacted by claims’ inflation. The effects of claims inflation could cause the severity of claims from catastrophes or other events to rise in the future. Our calculation of reserves for losses and loss expenses includes assumptions about future payments for settlement of claims and claims-handling expenses, such as medical treatment and litigation costs. We write business in the U.S. and the U.K., where claims inflation has grown particularly strong in recent years. To the extent inflation causes these costs to increase above reserves established for these claims, we will be required to increase our loss reserves with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the period in which the deficiency is identified. The movement in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our operating results because we enter into reinsurance and insurance contracts where the premiums receivable and losses payable are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar and we maintain a portion of our investments and liabilities in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Through our global reinsurance and insurance operations, we conduct business in a variety of foreign (non-U.S.) currencies, the principal exposures being the Euro, the British pound sterling, the Swiss franc, the Canadian dollar and the Japanese yen. Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are exposed to changes in currency exchange rates. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar, and exchange rate fluctuations relative to the U.S. dollar may materially impact our results and financial position. We employ various strategies (including hedging) to manage our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. To the extent that these exposures are not fully hedged or the hedges are ineffective, our results and level of capital may be reduced by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We may need additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us or may not be available on favorable terms, may have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of our common shares, could dilute your ownership in the Company, and may cause the market price of our common shares to fall. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, through public or private debt or equity financings, to maintain our historical volume of business, increase the capital of our insurance subsidiaries to limit the number of reinsurance cancellations, to repay our long term debt, comply with the terms of our letter of credit facility, write new business successfully, invest in existing businesses, 32 Index cover loss and loss adjustment expense reserves following losses, respond to any changes in the capital requirements that rating agencies use to evaluate us, to maintain our financial strength ratings, to manage investments and preserve capital in volatile markets, to acquire new businesses or invest in existing businesses, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures in our industry. Due to the uncertainty relating to some of these items, we are not able to quantify our total future capital requirements. Our ability to obtain financing or to access the capital markets for future offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering, as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions, weakness in the financial markets and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Significant contraction, de-leveraging and reduced liquidity in credit markets worldwide is reducing the availability and increasing the cost of credit. Any additional financing we may seek may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. Furthermore, the securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior or otherwise superior to those of our common shares. Any additional capital raised through the sale of equity will dilute your ownership percentage in our company and may decrease the market price of our common shares. Our global operating platform increases our exposure to systems or human failures, which may limit our revenues, increase our costs and decrease our net income from operations. We are subject to operational risks including fraud, employee errors, failure to document transactions properly or to obtain proper internal authorization, failure to comply with regulatory requirements, information technology failures, or external events. Our reliance in large part on the integration of our operations in Bermuda, the U.K., Switzerland, India, Canada, the Cayman Islands, and Luxembourg increases the likelihood that losses from these risks, which may occur from time to time, could be significant. As our business and operations grow more complex we are exposed to a broader scope of risk in these areas. The occurrence of these types of events may limit our revenues, increase our costs and decrease our net income from operations. Some of our related parties have continuing agreements and business relationships with us and these persons could pursue business interests or exercise their voting power as shareholders in ways that are detrimental to us. Some of our executive officers, directors, underwriters and affiliates of our principal shareholders engage in transactions with our Company. These persons could pursue business interests or exercise their voting power as shareholders in ways that are detrimental to us, but beneficial to themselves or their affiliates or to other companies in which they invest or with whom they have a material relationship. Unexpected industry practices and conditions could extend coverage beyond our underwriting intent or increase the number or size of claims, causing us to incur significant losses. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until sometime after we have issued reinsurance or insurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our reinsurance and insurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued. One example involves coverage for losses arising from terrorist acts. Substantially all of the reinsurance contracts that we have written exclude coverage for losses arising from the peril of terrorism caused by nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological attack. We are unable to predict the extent to which our future reinsurance and insurance contracts will cover terrorist acts. We also are unsure how terrorist acts will be defined in our current and future contracts and cannot assure you that losses resulting from future terrorist attacks will not be incidentally or inadvertently covered. If there is a future terrorist attack, the possibility remains that losses resulting from such event could prove to be material to our financial condition and results of operations. Terrorist acts may also cause multiple claims, and there is no assurance that our policy limits will be effective. Although the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act, or TRIA, was scheduled to expire at the end of 2007, the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007 was signed into law by the U.S. President on December 26, 2007. This law renews the existing terrorism risk insurance program for seven years, through December 31, 2014. Certain provisions of TRIA were modified by the 2007 reauthorization. The program was expanded to include domestic terrorism by eliminating from the definition of a certified act of terrorism the requirement that such an act be perpetrated “on behalf of any foreign person or foreign interest”. The insurer deductible is now fixed at 20% of an insurer’s direct earned premium, and the federal share of compensation is fixed at 85% of insured losses that exceed insurer deductibles. The U.S. Treasury Department is required to promulgate regulations to determine the pro-rata share of insured losses if they exceed the $100 billion cap. In addition, clear and conspicuous notice to policyholders of the $100 billion cap is required. Under the program reauthorization, the trigger at which federal compensation becomes available remains fixed at $100 million per year through 2014. The effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely difficult to predict. If we are required to cover losses that we did not anticipate having to cover under the terms of our reinsurance and insurance contracts, we could face 33 Index significant losses and as a result, our financial condition and results of operation could be adversely affected. The insurance and reinsurance industries are highly competitive. Competitive pressures may result in fewer contracts written, lower premium rates, increased expense for customer acquisition and retention, and less favorable policy terms and conditions. The reinsurance and insurance industries are highly competitive. We compete with major global insurance and reinsurance companies and underwriting syndicates, many of which have extensive experience in reinsurance and insurance and may have greater financial resources available to them than us. Other financial institutions, such as banks and hedge funds, now offer products and services similar to our products and services. Alternative products, such as catastrophe bonds, compete with our products. In the future, underwriting capacity will continue to enter the market from these identified competitors and perhaps other sources. After the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks in the U.S., and then again following the three major hurricanes of 2005 (Katrina, Rita and Wilma), new capital flowed into Bermuda, and much of these new proceeds went to a variety of Bermuda-based start-up companies. The full extent and effect of this additional capital on the reinsurance and insurance markets will not be known for some time and current market conditions could reverse. These continued increases in the supply of reinsurance and insurance may have negative consequences for us, including fewer contracts written, lower premium rates, increased expenses for customer acquisition and retention, and less favorable policy terms and conditions. Insurance company customers of reinsurers may choose to retain larger shares of risk, thereby reducing overall demand for reinsurance. Further, insureds have been retaining a greater proportion of their risk portfolios than previously, and industrial and commercial companies have been increasingly relying upon their own subsidiary insurance companies, known as captive companies, self-insurance pools, risk retention groups, mutual insurance companies and other mechanisms for funding their risks, rather than risk transferring insurance. This has put downward pressure on insurance premiums. In addition, while we believe our global operating platform as of the date of this Annual Report differentiates us among Bermuda-based reinsurance and insurance companies of comparable capital size and provides significant efficiencies in our operations, it is possible that our competitors will aim to employ a similar platform in the future, or implement their own platforms with equivalent or superior operational and cost structures to ours. Also, insurance/risk-linked securities, catastrophe bonds and derivatives and other non-traditional risk transfer mechanism and vehicles are being developed and offered by other parties, including non-insurance company entities, which could impact the demand for traditional insurance and reinsurance. A number of new, proposed or potential legislative or industry developments could also increase competition in our industries. These developments include programs in which state-sponsored entities provide property insurance or reinsurance in catastrophe-prone areas. These legislative developments could eliminate or reduce opportunities for us and other reinsurers to write those coverages, and increase competition with our competitors for contracts not covered by such state-sponsored programs. New competition from these developments could result in fewer contracts written, lower premium rates, increased expenses for customer acquisition and retention and less favorable policy terms and conditions. New competition could cause the demand for insurance or reinsurance to fall or the expense of customer acquisition and retention to increase, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our growth and profitability and our results of operations. We could face unanticipated losses from war, terrorism and political unrest, and these or other unanticipated losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may have substantial exposure to large, unexpected losses resulting from future man-made catastrophic events, such as acts of war, acts of terrorism and political instability. Although we may attempt to exclude losses from terrorism and certain other similar risks from some coverages we write, we may not be successful in doing so. To the extent that losses from these risks occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The availability and cost of security arrangements for reinsurance transactions may impact our ability to provide reinsurance to ceding insurers. Flagstone Suisse is required to post collateral security with respect to reinsurance liabilities it assumes from many ceding insurers, especially those in many U.S. jurisdictions. The posting of collateral security is generally required in order for these ceding companies to obtain credit on their statutory financial statements with respect to reinsurance liabilities ceded to reinsurers who are not licensed or accredited in these jurisdictions. Under applicable statutory provisions, the security arrangements may be in the form of letters of credit, reinsurance trusts maintained by third-party trustees or “funds withheld” arrangements whereby the assets are held in trust by the ceding company. As of the date of this Annual Report we have the ability to provide up to $750 million in letters of credit under our letter of credit facilities ($550 million in respect of Citibank Europe Plc and $200 million in respect of Barclays Bank Plc), the renewal of which is reviewed annually. As at December 31, 2011, $558.1 million has been drawn under these facilities. If these facilities are not sufficient or if we are unable to renew them or are unable to arrange for other types of security on commercially acceptable terms, the ability of Flagstone Suisse to provide reinsurance to some U.S.-based and international clients may be severely limited. 34 Index At a Lloyd’s market level, Lloyd’s is required to demonstrate to the FSA that each member’s capital resources requirement is met by that member’s available capital resources, which for this purpose comprises its Funds at Lloyd’s, its share of member capital held at syndicate level and the funds held within the Lloyd’s Central Fund. Although we plan to sell our Lloyd’s business, we must continue to comply with our obligations to Lloyd’s until the Proposed Divestiture is complete. In addition, the security arrangements may subject our assets to security interests or require that a portion of our assets be pledged to, or otherwise held by, third parties. Although the investment income derived from our assets while held in trust typically accrues to our benefit, the investment of these assets is governed by the investment regulations of the jurisdiction of domicile of the ceding insurer, which may be more restrictive than the investment regulations applicable to us under Bermuda law. These restrictions may result in lower investment yields on these assets, which could adversely affect our profitability. We are a holding company and we and our subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on paying dividends, repurchasing common shares or otherwise returning capital to shareholders. We are a holding company with no significant operations or assets other than our ownership of our subsidiaries, the most important of which is Flagstone Suisse. Dividends, distributions and other permitted payments from Flagstone Suisse, which are limited under Bermuda and Swiss law and regulations, are expected to be our primary source of funds to pay expenses and fund dividends, if any, or share repurchases. Under the Insurance Act and related regulations, Flagstone Suisse will be required to maintain certain capital and solvency requirements and paid-up share capital levels and will be prohibited from declaring or paying dividends that would result in noncompliance with such requirement. As a Bermuda Class 4 reinsurer, Flagstone Suisse may not pay dividends in any financial year which would exceed 25% of its total statutory capital and surplus as set out in its previous year's statements, unless at least seven days before payment of those dividends it files an affidavit with the BMA signed by at least two directors and Flagstone Suisse’s principal representative, which states that in their opinion, declaration of those dividends will not cause Flagstone Suisse to fail to meet its capital and solvency requirements and liquidity ratio. Further, Flagstone Suisse may not reduce by 15% or more its total statutory capital as set out in its previous year’s statements without the prior approval of the BMA. This may limit the amount of funds available for distribution to us, restricting our ability to pay dividends, make distributions and repurchase any of our common shares. Under relevant Luxembourg corporate law, each year at least one-twentieth of our net profits must be allocated to the creation of a reserve. This allocation to reserve ceases to be required when the reserve has reached an amount equal to one-tenth of our corporate capital, but once again becomes required if the reserve falls below one-tenth of our corporate capital. In addition, certain limitations apply to the declaration of dividends from the Company. Under Luxembourg Law, our shareholders may declare dividends at a general meeting of shareholders through the passage of an ordinary resolution, but, in accordance with our Articles, the dividend may not exceed the amount recommended by our Board of Directors. Dividends may only be declared from our distributable reserves. In accordance with Luxembourg Law, no distributions to shareholders may be made when, on the closing date of the relevant financial year, the net assets as set out in the annual accounts are, or would be following such a distribution, lower than the subscribed capital plus the reserves that may not be distributed under Luxembourg Law or in accordance with our Articles. The amount of a distribution to shareholders may not exceed the amount of profits at the end of the last financial year plus any profits carried forward and any amounts drawn from reserves which are available for that purpose, less any losses carried forward and sums to be placed to reserve in accordance with the Luxembourg Law or in accordance with the Articles. Our Articles and Luxembourg Law provide for certain restrictions on the purchase of our own shares. We may only purchase our own shares in accordance with Luxembourg Law and the provisions of our Articles. Our Articles provide that we are generally authorized to purchase our own shares provided that: (i) the maximum number of shares repurchased does not exceed the number of our paid up issued shares; (ii) the maximum price that may be paid for each share is the fair market value; (iii) the minimum price that may be paid for each share is the par value per share of US$0.01; (iv) our authority to repurchase our own shares is granted to us by our shareholders and expires on the fifth anniversary of the granting of such authority, at which point our shareholders must provide new authority for further repurchases; (v) the acquisition of shares, including shares previously acquired, may not have the effect of reducing our net assets below the amount required by Luxembourg Law; and (vi) our authority to purchase our own shares relates only to: (a) one or more open-market purchases; or (b) a purchase where we have made an offer on similar terms to repurchase up to the same number of shares from each shareholder appearing on the register of shareholders immediately before the offer was made, other than to those who have consented in writing to be excluded from the offer. The structure of FCML, our Luxembourg investment subsidiary, provides for the equity to be provided substantially in share premium. As an investment company, FCML has been empowered and operationally equipped to repurchase shares at Net Asset Value at short notice, (subject to board approval and maintaining the minimum share capital of €1,250,000). FCML can also declare dividends (including interim dividends) out of unrealized capital gains within the limits permitted by Luxembourg law. Swiss law permits dividends to be declared only after profits have been allocated to the reserves required by law and to any reserves required by the articles of incorporation. The articles of incorporation of Flagstone Suisse do not require any specific reserves. 35 Index Therefore, Flagstone Suisse must allocate any profits first to the reserve required by Swiss law generally, and may pay as dividends only the balance of the profits remaining after that allocation. In the case of Flagstone Suisse, Swiss law requires that 20% of the company’s profits be allocated to a “general reserve” until the reserve reaches 50% of its paid-in share capital. In addition, a Swiss reinsurance company may pay a dividend only if, after payment of the dividend, it will continue to comply with regulatory requirements regarding minimum capital, special reserves and solvency margin requirements. Under the relevant South African insurance regulation, a short term insurer such as Flagstone Reinsurance Africa Limited will not be permitted to declare dividends unless it has sufficient assets and has conducted itself in such manner that it is able to meet its liabilities at all times. U.K. company law prohibits FSML and FCNL from declaring a dividend to its shareholders unless it has “profits available for distribution”. The determination of whether a company has profits available for distribution is based on its accumulated realized profits less its accumulated realized losses. While the U.K. insurance regulatory laws impose no statutory restrictions on a Lloyd’s managing agent’s ability to declare a dividend, the FSA’s rules require maintenance of adequate resources, including each company’s solvency margin within its jurisdiction. In addition, under Lloyd’s rules, a managing agent must maintain a minimum level of capital based, among other things, on the amount of capacity it manages subject to a minimum of £400,000. Island Heritage is domiciled in the Cayman Islands and is required to maintain a minimum net worth of 100,000 Cayman Islands dollars (which is equal to approximately US$120,000). In addition, Island Heritage may not issue any dividends without prior approval from the Cayman Islands Monetary Authority. In order to obtain approval Island Heritage must demonstrate that the issuing of dividends would not render Island Heritage insolvent or affect its ability to pay any future claims. Flagstone Alliance operates under license issued by the Cyprus Insurance Superintendent to conduct general reinsurance and insurance business. Cyprus Companies law permits dividends to be declared only if there are available sufficient distributable reserves after profits have been allocated to the reserves required by law and to any reserves required by the articles of incorporation. The articles of incorporation of Flagstone Alliance do not require any specific reserves. Irrespective of the Cyprus Companies Law, Cap 113 requirements and Flagstone Alliance’s articles of association, Flagstone Alliance should maintain at any time reserves and assets that meet the Solvency criteria and Orders of the Cyprus Insurance Superintendent. Flagstone Alliance complies and reports to the Superintendent of Insurance under Solvency I requirements and the Solvency II requirements will be adopted in 2012. Revenue reserves are distributable to the extent permitted by the Companies Law, and Flagstone Alliance’s articles of association. The share premium account cannot be used for the distribution of dividends but can be used to issue bonus shares. The reserve arising on the conversion of share capital to Euro may be capitalized by way of a future capital increase; alternatively, Flagstone Alliance may decide at a shareholders’ general meeting to distribute the decrease by way of a dividend. Risks Related to Laws and Regulations Applicable to Us Insurance statutes and regulations in various jurisdictions could restrict our ability to operate. Our reinsurance and insurance intermediary subsidiaries may not be able to maintain necessary licenses, permits, authorizations or accreditations in territories where, as of the date of this Annual Report, we engage in business or obtain them in new territories, or may be able to do so only at significant cost. Failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate authorizations and/or exemptions under any applicable laws could result in restrictions on our ability to do business or to engage in certain activities that are regulated in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate and could subject us to fines and other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, changes in the laws or regulations to which our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject could have a material adverse effect on our business. The Bermuda Insurance Act provides a minimum liquidity ratio for general business insurers who are required to maintain the value of its relevant assets at not less than 75% of the amount of its relevant liabilities. Investments in subsidiaries, such as Flagstone Suisse’s investment in FCML, are not considered relevant assets unless special approval is obtained from the BMA. In 2011, due to a failure of Flagstone Suisse to meet these minimum liquidity ratio requirements for December 31, 2010, the Company applied to the BMA to obtain a waiver to have additional assets of Flagstone Suisse qualified as relevant assets for the purposes of these minimum requirements, specifically to obtain approval to qualify the investments held by FCML as relevant assets as at December 31, 2011, as it holds the majority of Flagstone Suisse’s investments. This application was approved by the BMA on March 13, 2012. The Company may need to make applications or seek additional waivers in the future to comply with insurance regulatory standards. There can be no assurance that any such applications or waivers will be granted, in which case we may not be able to operate as an insurance company in that jurisdiction. For more information on these requirements, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis— Financial Condition, Liquidity, and Capital Resources— Restrictions and Specific Requirements— Bermuda”. 36 Index The insurance laws of each state in the U.S. and many non-U.S. jurisdictions regulate the sale of insurance within that jurisdiction by alien insurers, such as Flagstone Suisse, which are not authorized or admitted to do business in that jurisdiction. The laws and regulations applicable to direct insurers could indirectly affect us, such as collateral requirements in various U.S. states to enable such insurers to receive credit for reinsurance ceded to us. We expect that for so long as Flagstone Suisse follows its operating guidelines, it will conduct its activities in compliance with applicable insurance statutes and regulations. However, insurance regulators in the U.S. or other jurisdictions who review the activities of Flagstone may successfully take the position that Flagstone is subject to the jurisdiction’s licensing requirements. A number of new, proposed or potential legislative developments could further increase competition in our industry. These developments include programs in which state-sponsored entities provide property insurance or reinsurance in catastrophe-prone areas. These legislative developments could eliminate or reduce opportunities for us and other reinsurers to write those coverages, and increase competition with our competitors for contracts not covered by such state-sponsored programs. New competition from these developments could result in fewer contracts written, lower premium rates, increased expenses for customer acquisition and retention and less favorable policy terms and conditions. The insurance and reinsurance regulatory framework of Bermuda recently has become subject to increased scrutiny in many jurisdictions, including the U.S. In the past, there have been Congressional and other initiatives in the U.S. regarding increased supervision and regulation of the insurance industry, including proposals to supervise and regulate offshore reinsurers. Government regulators are generally concerned with the protection of policyholders rather than other constituencies, such as shareholders. Moreover, our exposure to potential regulatory initiatives could be heightened by the fact that certain of our principal operating companies operate from Bermuda. Bermuda is a small jurisdiction and may be disadvantaged when participating in global or cross border regulatory matters as compared with larger jurisdictions such as the U.S. or the leading European Union countries. This disadvantage could be amplified by the fact that Bermuda, which, as of the date of this Annual Report, is an overseas territory of the U.K., may consider changes to its relationship with the U.K. in the future, including potentially seeking independence. We are not able to predict the future impact on Flagstone’s operations of changes in the laws and regulations to which we, or companies acquired by us, are or may become subject. Flagstone Suisse operates in Bermuda under a permit issued by the Bermuda Minster of Finance. If Flagstone Suisse’s permit were revoked, it would not be permitted to operate its business from within Bermuda. The attorneys general for multiple states and other insurance regulatory authorities have previously investigated a number of issues and practices within the insurance industry, and in particular insurance brokerage practices. In addition, the European Commission has clarified its approach to the application of EU competition law in the commercial insurance and reinsurance sectors. On September 25, 2007, the European Commission published a report (Sector Inquiry under Article 17 of Regulation (EC) No 1/2003 on business insurance (Final Report) COM (2007) 556) setting out its main findings. No company in the group was among the many companies to receive formal requests for information about business practices from the European Commission. As of the date of this Annual Report, we do not consider that the Report has implications for our business practices, but the Commission's approach may well change. To the extent that state regulation of brokers and intermediaries becomes more onerous, costs of regulatory compliance for our insurance intermediary subsidiaries will increase. Finally, to the extent that any of the brokers with whom we do business suffer financial difficulties as a result of the investigations or proceedings, we could suffer increased credit risk. Since we depend on a few brokers for a large portion of our insurance and reinsurance revenues, loss of business provided by any one of them could adversely affect us. These investigations of the insurance industry in general, whether involving the company specifically or not, together with any legal or regulatory proceedings, related settlements and industry reform or other changes arising therefrom, may materially adversely affect our business and future financial results or results of operations. Our Indian subsidiary, Flagstone Underwriting Support Services (India) Private Limited (“Flagstone (India)”), has been duly incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956 in India and has specified as its main object the provision of business process outsourcing services, which permits it to provide us with back office information technology support services. Flagstone (India) is not considered to be engaged in the insurance or reinsurance business and is not registered with India’s Insurance Development & Regulatory Authority. In the future, however, it is possible that regulators in India will take the position that Flagstone (India) is subject to the India’s Insurance Development & Regulatory Authority or other insurance/reinsurance regulatory restrictions in India. Due to various governmental investigations into contingent commission practices, various market participants have modified or eliminated acquisition expenses formerly arising from Placement Service Agreements (‘‘PSAs’’). As a result, it is possible that policy commissions or brokerage that we pay may increase in the future and/or that different forms of contingent commissions will develop in the future. It is also possible that some market participants may seek to reinsure some version of contingent commission arrangements. Any such additional expense could have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions or results. Regulatory regimes and changes to accounting standards may adversely impact financial results irrespective of business operations. 37 Index Accounting standards and regulatory changes may require modifications to our accounting principles, both prospectively and for prior periods and such changes could have an adverse impact on our financial results. In particular, the SEC and the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) are considering whether U.S. GAAP will ultimately be replaced by or harmonized with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”). It is also possible that the adoption of IFRS would be extended to U.S. issuers on either an optional or mandatory basis. Any such change could have a significant impact on our financial reporting, impacting key matters such as our loss reserving policies and premium and expense recognition. For example, IFRS is considering adopting an accounting standard that would require all reinsurance and insurance contracts to be accounted for under a new measurement basis, current exit value, which is considered to be closely related to fair value. As of the date of this Annual Report, we cannot assess how the FASB and SEC staff’s ultimate resolution of these initiatives will impact us, including aspects of our loss reserving policy or the effect it might have on recognizing premium revenue and policy acquisition costs. Until final guidance is issued, we intend to apply existing U.S. GAAP. There can be no certainty, however, that the SEC or the FASB will not require us to modify our current principles, either on a going-forward basis or for prior periods. Any required modification of our existing principles, either with respect to these issues or other issues in the future, could have an impact on our results of operations, including changing the timing of the recognition of underwriting income, increasing the volatility of our reported earnings and changing our overall financial statement presentation. An EU directive covering the capital adequacy, risk management and regulatory reporting for insurers, known as Solvency II was adopted by the European Parliament in April 2009. As of the date of this Annual Report, the proposed Solvency II insurance directive is expected to come into force on January 1, 2014. Insurers and reinsurers are undertaking a significant amount of work to ensure that they meet the new requirements and this may divert resources from other operational roles. Final Solvency II guidelines have been published and the Company and FSML implementation plans are well underway. There can be no assurance that future legislation will not have an adverse effect on FSML or the Company. We could lose the services of one or more of our key employees if we are unable to obtain or renew work permits required by certain countries in which we operate. Our success depends on our ability to retain the services of our existing key employees and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel in the future. Many of our key employees work in countries where they are not citizens, such as Bermuda or Switzerland. It is possible that we could lose the services of one or more of our key employees, or be unable to attract new qualified personnel, if we are unable to obtain or renew necessary work permits, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Our Common Shares Future sales may affect the market price of our common shares. We cannot predict what effect, if any, future sales of our common shares, or the availability of common shares for future sale, will have on the market price of our common shares. Sales of substantial amounts of our common shares in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common shares and may make it more difficult for you to sell your common shares at a time and price which you deem appropriate. As of February 27, 2012, we had 70,276,743 common shares outstanding, net of treasury shares. Up to an additional 5,246,354 common shares may be issuable upon the vesting and exercise of outstanding Performance Share Units (PSUs) and Restricted Share Units (RSUs). In addition, our principal shareholders and their transferees have the right to require us to register their common shares under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) for sale to the public. There is one warrant outstanding that will be exercisable for an aggregate 630,194 common shares during the month of December 2013. These shares also will be entitled to demand registration. Following any registration of this type, the common shares to which the registration relates will be freely transferable. We have also filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act to register common shares issued or reserved for issuance under our PSU Plan and our RSU Plan. Subject to the exercise of issued and outstanding stock options, shares registered under the registration statement on Form S-8 will be available for sale to the public. We have reserved 11.2 million common shares for issuance under the PSU Plan. For the RSU Plan, we annually reserve 0.2% of our outstanding common shares for issuance (or as decided by the Compensation Committee), plus the amount required to satisfy director fees paid in common shares. Subject to the settlement of PSUs, which generally vest over three years, and RSUs, which generally vest over two years (other than RSUs granted to our directors in lieu of their annual fees), common shares registered under the registration statement on Form S-8 will be available for sale into the public markets after the expiration of the 180-day lock-up agreements. On June 23, 2010, we filed a universal shelf registration statement with the SEC, which was declared effective on August 5, 2010 (the “2010 Shelf Registration Statement”). Under the 2010 Shelf Registration Statement, we may issue and sell up to $500 million worth of common shares, preferred shares and senior and subordinated debt, under one or more prospectus supplements. Additionally, selling stockholders are entitled to sell up to a total of 71,547,891 common shares from time to time under the 2010 Shelf Registration Statement. We have not yet completed an offering under the 2010 Shelf Registration. There are provisions in our charter documents that may reduce or increase the voting rights of our common shares. There are provisions in our Articles that may reduce or increase the voting rights of the common shares. In general, and except as 38 Index provided below, shareholders have one vote for each common share held by them and are entitled to vote at all meetings of shareholders. However, if, and so long as, the common shares of a shareholder are treated as “controlled shares” (as generally determined under section 958 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”) and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder and under Section 957 of the Code) of any U.S. Person (as defined in Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code) and such controlled shares constitute 9.9% or more of the votes conferred by the Company’s issued shares, the voting rights with respect to the controlled shares of such U.S. Person (a “9.9% U.S. Shareholder”) shall be limited, in the aggregate, to a voting power of less than 9.9% under a formula specified in our Articles. The reduction in votes is generally to be applied proportionately among all the “controlled shares” of the 9.9% U.S. Shareholder. The formula is applied repeatedly until the voting power of each 9.9% U.S. Shareholder has been reduced below 9.9%. “Controlled shares” include all shares that a U.S. Person is deemed to own directly, indirectly or constructively (within the meaning of Section 958 of the Code). The amount of any reduction of votes that occurs by operation of the above limitations will generally be reallocated proportionately among all other shareholders of the Company so long as the reallocation does not cause any U.S. shareholder to become a 9.9% U.S. Shareholder. In addition, our Articles require any person that becomes a 9.9% U.S. Shareholder to notify the Company in writing and provide us with ownership information regarding the controlled shares of such person. Under these provisions, certain shareholders may have their voting rights limited to less than one vote per share, while other shareholders may have voting rights increased to in excess of one vote per share. Moreover, these provisions could have the effect of reducing the votes of certain shareholders who would not otherwise be subject to the 9.9% limitation by virtue of their direct share ownership. As a result of any reallocation of votes, your voting rights might increase above 5% of the aggregate voting power of the outstanding common shares, thereby possibly resulting in your becoming a reporting person subject to Schedule 13D or 13G filing requirements under the Exchange Act. In addition, the reallocation of your votes could result in your becoming subject to filing requirements under Section 16 of the Exchange Act. U.S. persons who own our common shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests than U.S. persons who are shareholders of a U.S. corporation. The Luxembourg companies legislation, which applies to the Company, differs in material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. The rights of shareholders under Luxembourg law, although extensive, may differ from the rights of shareholders under legislation or judicial precedent in many U.S. jurisdictions. Class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under the laws of Luxembourg. In addition, the Company’s Articles of Incorporation (Statuts) also provide that shareholders indemnify the directors against and waive all claims or rights of action that the shareholders may have, individually or in the Company’s right, against any of the Company’s directors or officers from and against all actions , costs, charges, losses, damages and expenses which the directors shall incur or sustain by reason of any act done, concurred or omitted in or about the execution of their duty, supposed duty, or respective offices or trusts, provided that this indemnity shall not extend to any actions resulting from fraud, dishonesty, gross negligence or willful misconduct of such director or officer. The cumulative effect of some of these differences between Luxembourg law and the laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders may result in shareholders having greater difficulties in protecting their interests as a shareholder of our Company than as a shareholder of a U.S. corporation. In particular, this affects, among other things, the circumstances under which transactions involving an interested director are voidable, whether an interested director can be held accountable for any benefit realized in a transaction with our company, what approvals are required for business combinations by our company with a large shareholder or a wholly-owned subsidiary, what rights a shareholder may have to enforce specified provisions of the Luxembourg companies legislation or our articles, and the circumstances under which we may indemnify our directors and officers. Anti-takeover provisions in our articles could diminish the value of our common shares. Our articles contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of the Company that a shareholder might consider favorable. For example, these provisions may prevent a shareholder from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of our common shares offered by a bidder in a potential takeover. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. Examples of provisions in our articles that could have this effect include: ● election of our directors is staggered, meaning that ordinarily the members of only one of the three classes of our directors are elected each year; ● except as otherwise specified in the Articles, directors are ordinarily elected by shareholders from persons nominated by the existing directors; and ● the affirmative vote of at least 75% of the shares represented will be required to approve any merger, amalgamation or similar transaction involving the Company. 39 Index There are regulatory limitations on the ownership and transfer of our common shares. The transfer of ownership of our common shares may require the prior approval of certain regulators in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including Bermuda and the U.K. Bermuda insurance law requires that any person who becomes a holder of at least 10%, 20%, 33% or 50% of the common shares of an insurance or reinsurance company or its parent company must notify the BMA in writing within 45 days of becoming such a holder or 30 days from the date they have knowledge of having such a holding, whichever is later. The BMA may, by written notice, object to a person holding 10%, 20%, 33% or 50% of our common shares if it appears to the BMA that the person is not fit and proper to be such a holder. The BMA may require the holder to reduce their shareholding in us and may direct, among other things, that the voting rights attaching to their shares shall not be exercisable. A person that does not comply with such a notice or direction from the BMA will be guilty of an offense. Except in connection with the settlement of trades or transactions entered into through the facilities of the NYSE, our Board may generally require any shareholder or any person proposing to acquire our shares to provide the information required under our articles. If any such shareholder or proposed acquirer does not provide such information, or if the Board has reason to believe that any certification or other information provided pursuant to any such request is inaccurate or incomplete, the Board may decline to register any transfer or to effect any issuance or purchase of shares to which such request is related. Although these restrictions on transfer will not interfere with the settlement of trades on the NYSE, we may decline to register transfers in accordance with our articles and Board resolutions after a settlement has taken place. The FSA regulates the acquisition of ‘‘control’’ of any U.K. person, such as FSML, authorized under the FSMA. Similarly, Lloyd’s approval is required prior to acquiring control of a Lloyd’s managing agent. Any company or individual that (together with its or his associates) directly or indirectly acquires 10% or more of the shares of a U.K. authorized insurance company or its parent company, or is entitled to exercise or control the exercise of 10% or more of the voting power in such authorized insurance company or its parent company, would be considered to have acquired ‘‘control’’ for the purposes of FSMA, as would a person who had significant influence over the management of such authorized insurance company or its parent company by virtue of his shareholding or voting power in either. A purchaser of 10% or more of our ordinary shares would therefore be considered to have acquired ‘‘control’’ of FSML. Under FSMA, any person proposing to acquire ‘‘control’’ over a U.K. authorized insurance company must notify the FSA of his intention to do so and obtain the FSA’s prior approval. The FSA would then have three months to consider that person’s application to acquire ‘‘control.’’ In considering whether to approve such application, the FSA must be satisfied both that the acquirer is a fit and proper person to have such ‘‘control’’ and that the interests of consumers would not be threatened by such acquisition of ‘‘control.’’ Failure to make the relevant prior application would constitute a criminal offense; whereas a failure to obtain Lloyd's approval could result in Lloyd’s taking action against the relevant managing agent. Lloyd’s also regulates the acquisition of control over Lloyd’s corporate members, such as FCNL. The test for acquisition of control is the same as that described above in relation to FSMA. Accordingly, any person who proposed to acquire 10% or more of the ordinary shares in FCNL or a parent company would have to obtain the prior approval of Lloyd’s. We may repurchase your common shares without your consent. Under our articles and subject to Luxembourg law, we have the option, but not the obligation, to require a shareholder to sell to us at fair market value the minimum number of common shares which is necessary to avoid or cure any adverse tax consequences or materially adverse legal or regulatory treatment to us, our subsidiaries or our shareholders if our Board reasonably determines, in good faith and based on the opinion of counsel, that failure to exercise our option would result in such adverse consequences or treatment. It may be difficult to enforce a judgment or effect service of process under Luxembourg law on the Company or related persons. We are a Luxembourg société anonyme and it may be difficult to enforce judgments against us or our directors and executive officers. We are organized under the laws of Luxembourg. In addition, some of our directors and officers reside outside the U.S. and all or a substantial portion of their assets and our assets are or may be located in jurisdictions outside the U.S. Therefore, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the U.S. upon our non-U.S. directors and officers or to recover against our company or our non-U.S directors and officers on judgments of U.S. courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. Federal securities laws. Further, no claim may be brought in Luxembourg against us or our directors and officers in the first instance for violation of U.S. Federal securities laws because these laws have no extraterritorial jurisdiction under Luxembourg law and do not have force of law in Luxembourg. We have been advised by our Luxembourg counsel that there is doubt as to whether the courts of Luxembourg would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our directors and officers, as well as the experts named herein, predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. Federal securities laws. It may be difficult for you to recover against us based upon a judgment of a U.S. court because such judgments are not automatically enforceable in Luxembourg. As of the date of this Annual Report, the U.S. and Luxembourg are not bound by a treaty providing for reciprocal recognition and 40 Index enforcement of judgments, other than arbitral awards rendered in civil and commercial matters. An enforceable judgment for the payment of monies rendered by any U.S. Federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not predicated solely upon the U.S. securities laws, would not directly be enforceable in Luxembourg. However a party who received such favorable judgment in a U.S. court may institute enforcement proceedings (exequatur) in Luxembourg by requesting enforcement of the U.S. judgment by the District Court (Tribunal d’Arrondissement) pursuant to Article 678 of the New Luxembourg Code of Civil Procedure. The District Court will authorize the enforcement of the U.S. judgment in Luxembourg if it is satisfied that all of the following conditions are met: • the U.S. judgment is enforceable in the U.S.; • the U.S. court awarding the judgment has jurisdiction to adjudicate the respective matter under the applicable U.S. Federal or state jurisdictions rules, and the jurisdiction of the U.S. court is recognized by Luxembourg private international and local law; • the U.S. court has applied to the dispute the substantive law which would have been designated by the Luxembourg conflict of law rules; • the principles of natural justice have been complied with; • the U.S. judgment does not contravene international public policy (ordre public) or order as understood under the laws of Luxembourg or has been given in proceedings of a criminal nature; • the U.S. court has acted in accordance with its own procedural laws; • the U.S. judgment was granted following proceedings in which the counterparty had the opportunity to appear and to present a defense; and • the U.S. judgment was not granted pursuant to an evasion of Luxembourg law (fraude à la loi luxembourgeoise). Subject to the above conditions, Luxembourg courts tend not to review the merits of a foreign judgment, although there is no statutory prohibition on this type of review. Enforcement does not mean that all of the obligations resulting from the judgment are enforced in accordance with their specific terms, but only that they can be enforced if they are of a type that is recognized and enforced under Luxembourg law generally. Risks Related to Tax Matters U.S. persons who hold common shares may be subject to U.S. income taxation at ordinary income rates on undistributed earnings and profits. Controlled Foreign Corporation Rules. If the Company or any of its non-U.S. subsidiaries is characterized as a controlled foreign corporation (“CFC”) for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during a taxable year, then any U.S. person who owns, directly, indirectly through non-U.S. entities or constructively (under applicable constructive ownership rules), 10% or more of the shares of the Company or any of its non-U.S. subsidiaries (based on voting power) on the last day of the taxable year in which the Company or any of its non-U.S. subsidiaries is a CFC, whom we refer to as a “U.S. 10% shareholder,” would be required to include in its U.S. federal gross income for the taxable year, as income subject to taxation at ordinary income tax rates, its pro rata share of the relevant company’s undistributed earnings and profits characterized as “subpart F income.” Subpart F income generally includes passive investment income (such as interest, dividends and certain rent or royalties) and subpart F insurance income, which includes certain insurance underwriting income and related investment income. Additionally, a U.S. person that was a U.S. 10% shareholder at any time during the five-year period ending on the date such U.S. person disposes of our common shares may be taxable at dividend rates on any gain realized on such sale or other disposition (including by way of repurchase or liquidation) of common shares to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits attributable to such common shares. A non-U.S. insurance company is a CFC if more than 25% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock is owned by U.S. 10% shareholders on any day during the taxable year of such a corporation. Our Articles contain provisions that limit the voting power of some of our common shares under certain circumstances, as more fully described above in “There are provisions in our charter documents that may reduce or increase the voting rights of our common shares.” Assuming such provisions are enforceable under Luxembourg law, we believe that because of those provisions and the anticipated dispersion of our share ownership, no U.S. Person should be treated as a U.S. 10% Shareholder. However, the IRS could successfully challenge the effectiveness of these provisions in our organizational documents and there can be no assurance under Luxembourg law as of the date of this Annual Report that the voting reduction is enforceable. As a result, there can be no assurance 41 Index that a U.S. Shareholder that owns our shares will not be treated as a U.S. 10% Shareholder, which could result in adverse U.S. Federal income tax consequences to such shareholder. Investors should consult their own tax advisors regarding the U.S. tax ramifications of owning shares of the Company, and in particular regarding the manner in which ownership is computed for purposes of applying the CFC rules described above, and the potential for U.S. tax ramifications of ownership of shares of the Company with an aggregate voting power of 10% or greater. Related Person Insurance Income Rules. If (i) the gross “related person insurance income,” or RPII, of any insurance subsidiary of the Company were to equal or exceed 20% of its gross insurance income in any taxable year and (ii) direct or indirect insureds (and related persons) were to own 20% or more of either the voting power or value of the common shares either directly or indirectly through entities, then a U.S. person owning any common shares directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities on the last day of the relevant subsidiary’s taxable year could be required to include in gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes that person’s share of the subsidiary’s RPII for up to the entire taxable year, determined as if all such RPII were distributed proportionately only to such U.S. persons at that date, but limited by that person’s share of the subsidiary’s current-year earnings and profits as reduced by the person’s share, if any, of certain prior-year deficits in earnings and profits attributable to the subsidiary’s insurance business. Upon the sale or other disposition of any common shares, the person may also be subject to U. S. federal income tax at dividend rates to the extent of the holder’s pro rata share of the subsidiary’s undistributed earnings and profits, although we do not believe this should be the case since the Company will not be directly engaged in the insurance business. We do not expect the gross RPII of any subsidiary of the Company to equal or exceed 20% of its gross insurance income in any taxable year for the foreseeable future and do not expect direct or indirect insureds (and related persons) to directly or indirectly through entities own 20% or more of either the voting power or value of the common shares, but we cannot be certain that this will be the case. The RPII provisions have never been interpreted by the courts or the U.S. Treasury Department in final regulations. Regulations interpreting the RPII provisions of the Code exist only in proposed form. It is not certain whether these regulations will be adopted in their proposed form or what changes or clarifications might ultimately be made thereto or whether any such changes, as well as any interpretation or application of RPII by the IRS, the courts, or otherwise, might have retroactive effect. The Treasury Department has authority to impose, among other things, additional reporting requirements with respect to RPII. Accordingly, the meaning of the RPII provisions and the application thereof is uncertain. U.S. holders of common shares may be subject to U.S. income taxation at the highest marginal income tax rates applicable to ordinary income and be required to pay an interest charge. Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules. A non-U.S. corporation will be treated as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for any taxable year if at least 75% of its gross income for the taxable year is passive income or at least 50% of its gross assets during the taxable year produce or are held for the production of passive income. If the Company was characterized as a PFIC for any taxable year, U.S. holders of common shares generally would be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences for such year and each subsequent year including (i) taxation of any gain attributable to the sale or other disposition (including by way of repurchase or liquidation) of their common shares or any “excess distribution” with respect to their common shares at the highest marginal income tax rates applicable to ordinary income during the holder’s holding period for the common shares and (ii) an interest charge on the deemed deferral of income tax, unless the holder properly elects to have the Company treated as a qualified electing fund and thus to include in gross income each year a pro rata share of our ordinary earnings and net capital gain for any year in which we constitute a PFIC. The Company believes that it is not a PFIC because it (through its insurance subsidiaries) will engage predominantly in the active conduct of an insurance business. We cannot be certain, however, that the IRS or a court will concur that based on our activities and the composition of our income and assets that we are not a PFIC. U.S. tax-exempt organizations that own common shares may recognize unrelated business taxable income. A U.S. tax-exempt organization that owns any of our common shares will be required to treat certain subpart F insurance income, including RPII, as unrelated business taxable income. Although we do not believe that any U.S. holders, including U.S. tax-exempt organizations, should be allocated any subpart F insurance income, we cannot be certain that this will be the case. Potential U.S. tax-exempt investors are advised to consult their tax advisors. We may be subject to taxation in the United States, which would negatively affect our results. The Company and most of its subsidiaries are incorporated under the laws of Luxembourg, Switzerland, Bermuda and other non-U.S. jurisdictions. If the Company or any such subsidiary is considered to be engaged in a business in the U.S., such company may be subject to current U.S. corporate income and branch profits taxes on the portion of such company’s earnings that are effectively connected to its U.S. business, including premium income from U.S. sources (which represents a large portion of the reinsurance written by Flagstone) and certain related investment income. With respect to any subsidiary of the Company that is an insurance company eligible to claim the benefits of a tax treaty with the U.S., income of such subsidiary would only be subject to current U.S. 42 Index tax on the portion of its earnings that are attributable to a “permanent establishment” in the U.S. The Company and its subsidiaries intend to conduct substantially all of their activities outside the U.S. and, except as described below, to limit their U.S. contacts so that each of them will not be subject to material U.S. taxation on their income (other than excise taxes on reinsurance premium income attributable to reinsuring U.S. risks and U.S. withholding taxes on certain U.S. source investment income). Any dividends you receive may be subject to Luxembourg dividend withholding tax and Luxembourg income tax. Luxembourg dividend withholding tax (at a rate of 15% as of the date of this Annual Report) may arise in respect of dividends paid on our shares. A Luxembourg withholding tax levied at a rate of 15% is due on dividends and similar non-exempt distributions to our shareholders. We will be required to withhold at such rate from distributions to the shareholder and to pay such withheld amounts to the Luxembourg tax authorities. Dividends and similar distributions paid to our shareholders may be exempt from Luxembourg dividend withholding tax if: (1) the shareholder is a qualifying corporate entity holding a stake of at least 10% of the total issued and outstanding share capital of the Company or a stake of such share capital with an acquisition price of at least €1.2 million; and (2) has either held this qualifying stake in our capital for an uninterrupted period of at least 12 months at the time of the payment of the dividend, or if it undertakes to continue to own such qualifying shareholding until such time as the entity has held the shares for an uninterrupted period of at least 12 months. Examples of qualifying corporate shareholders are taxable Luxembourg companies, certain taxable companies resident in other EU member states, capital companies resident in Switzerland subject to income tax and companies fully subject to a tax corresponding to Luxembourg corporate income tax that are resident in countries that have concluded a treaty for the avoidance of double taxation with Luxembourg. Residents of countries that have concluded a treaty for avoidance of double taxation with Luxembourg might claim application of a dividend withholding tax reduced rate (or exemption) depending on the applicable tax treaty. Under Luxembourg tax law, as of the date of this Annual Report, payments to shareholders in relation to a reduction of share capital or share premium are not subject to Luxembourg dividend withholding tax if certain conditions are met, including, for example, the condition that we do not have distributable reserves or profits generated since the Redomestication. If we have, at the time of the payment to shareholders with respect to their shares, distributable reserves or profits generated since the Redomestication, a distribution of share capital or share premium may well be recharacterized for Luxembourg tax purposes as a distribution of such reserves or earnings subject to withholding tax. While it is our intention to make payments to shareholders in a way that no Luxembourg withholding tax is due, we may not be able to do so or our ability to do so could be limited. There could be adverse tax consequences if we fail to maintain sufficient presence in Luxembourg. If we do not maintain sufficient presence in Luxembourg, the Luxembourg tax authorities may not be willing to confirm that we are a tax resident of Luxembourg. In such case, we may not be entitled to tax treaty benefits. In addition, a foreign jurisdiction may claim the right to tax us as if we were a tax resident of that foreign jurisdiction, and ultimately double taxation may result. Changes in U.S. tax laws may be retroactive and could subject a U.S. holder of common shares to U.S. income taxation on the Company’s undistributed earnings and to other adverse tax consequences. The tax laws and interpretations regarding whether a company is engaged in a U.S. trade or business, is a CFC, is a PFIC or has RPII are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis. As of the date of this Annual Report, there are no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC provisions to an insurance company and the regulations regarding RPII are in proposed form. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying such rules may be forthcoming. We are not able to predict if, when or in what form such guidance will be provided or whether such guidance will have a retroactive effect. The tax treatment of non-U.S. insurance companies has been the subject of discussion in the U.S. Congress. We cannot assure you that future legislative action will not increase the amount of U.S. tax payable by us. If this happens, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may be subject to taxation in the United Kingdom, which would negatively affect our results. None of our companies, except for Flagstone Representatives Limited, FSML, FCNL, Flagstone Holdings (U.K.) Limited, Mosaic Underwriting Services (U.K.) Limited and Syndicate 1861 (the “Flagstone U.K. Group”) are incorporated or managed in the U.K.. Accordingly, none of our other companies should be treated as being resident in the U.K. for corporation tax purposes unless the central management and control of any such company is exercised in the U.K. The concept of central management and control is indicative of the highest level of control of a company, which is wholly a question of fact. As of the date of this Annual Report, each of our companies intends to manage its affairs so that none of our companies, apart from the Flagstone U.K. Group, are resident in the U.K. for tax purposes or carry on a trade through a permanent establishment in the U.K. If any of our companies were treated as being resident in the U.K. for U.K. corporation tax purposes, or if any of our companies, other than the Flagstone U.K. Group, were to be treated as carrying on a trade in the U.K. through a branch or agency or of having a permanent establishment in the U.K., our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 43 Index The Flagstone U.K. Group is subject to U.K. tax in respect of their world wide income and gains. Rates of taxation in the U.K. may change in the future. Any change in the basis or rate of U.K. corporation tax could materially affect the Company’s ability to provide returns to shareholders. Any reinsurance arrangements between FCNL and other Flagstone companies will be subject to the U.K. transfer pricing regime. Consequently, if the reinsurance is found not to be on arm’s length terms and as a result a U.K. tax advantage is obtained, an adjustment will be required to compute U.K. taxable profits as if the reinsurance were on arm’s length terms. Any transfer pricing adjustment could adversely impact the Company’s tax charge. In addition, as of the date of this Annual Report possible changes to the U.K. controlled foreign companies regime are under active consideration. Any possible changes may impact on the Flagstone U.K. Group’s tax charge. We may be subject to taxation in Switzerland which would negatively affect our results. None of our companies, except for Flagstone Suisse and Flagstone Management S.A. is incorporated or managed in Switzerland. Accordingly, none of our other companies should be liable for Swiss corporation taxation unless it carries on business through a permanent establishment in Switzerland. From a Swiss tax perspective, a permanent establishment is a fixed place of business through which a company performs business activities that are considered as being quantitatively and qualitatively significant by the tax authorities, and may include a branch, office, agency or place of management. As of the date of this Annual Report, each of our companies intends to operate in such a manner so that none of our companies, apart from Flagstone Suisse and Flagstone Management S.A., will carry on business through a permanent establishment in Switzerland. If any of our companies were to be treated as carrying on business in Switzerland through a branch or agency or of having a permanent establishment in Switzerland, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may be subject to taxation in Luxembourg which would negatively affect our results. Flagstone Reinsurance Holdings, S.A., FCML and FFSA are incorporated and carry on business through a permanent establishment in Luxembourg. However, none of our other companies should be subject to taxation in Luxembourg. As of the date of this Annual Report, each of our companies intends to operate in such a manner so that none of our companies, apart from Flagstone Reinsurance Holdings, S.A., FCML and FFSA, will carry on business through a permanent establishment in Luxembourg. If any of our companies were to be treated as carrying on business in Luxembourg through a branch or agency or of having a permanent establishment in Luxembourg, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may be subject to taxation in Canada which would negatively affect our results. None of our companies, except for Flagstone Management Services (Halifax) Limited, or Flagstone Halifax, is resident in Canada for corporate tax purposes. Accordingly, none of our other companies should be liable for Canadian corporate tax unless it is determined to be carrying on business in Canada. Canada applies both a common law test and a statutory test to determine whether a non-resident is carrying on business in Canada. The common law test looks to where the contracts of the business are made, and the location of operations from which profits arise. The statutory test extends the concept of carrying on business to include a transaction by which a non-resident solicits orders or offers anything for sale in Canada through an agent or servant, whether the contract or transaction is to be completed inside or outside Canada or partly inside or outside Canada. As of the date of this Annual Report, each of our companies intends to operate in such a manner so that none of our companies, apart from Flagstone Halifax, will be deemed to be carrying on business in Canada. If any of our companies were to be treated as carrying on business in Canada, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may be subject to taxation in India which would negatively affect our results. None of our companies, except for Flagstone (India), should be treated as being resident in India for corporate tax purposes. Accordingly, none of our other companies should be liable for corporate tax in India unless it receives or is deemed to receive income, from whatever source derived, in India or it has income that arises or accrues (or is deemed to arise or accrue) in India. As of the date of this Annual Report, each of our companies intends to operate in such a manner so that none of our companies, apart from Flagstone (India), receives or is deemed to receive income in India or has income that arises or accrues in India for purposes of corporate tax in India, including Flagstone Suisse which has a marketing office in Mumbai, the activities of which, however, are not subject to taxation in India. If any of our companies were to be treated as receiving income in India or earning income that arises or accrues in India, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Flagstone (India) is registered under the software technology park of India, or STPI, Scheme. Tax incentives associated with businesses which are registered under the STPI Scheme generally provide a complete exemption from Indian tax on business income generated through these operations, and Flagstone (India) has been granted a complete tax holiday valid through March 31, 2010 subject to compliance with the applicable requirements of the Income Tax Act, 1961 of India. Under the STPI tax holiday, the entire income of the Indian operations from services provided to Flagstone and other companies based outside India is exempt from tax in India through the fiscal year ending March 31, 2010 subject to compliance with the applicable requirements of the Income Tax Act, 44 Index 1961 of India. However, Flagstone (India) is subject to Minimum Alternate Tax on its book profits, according to section 115JB of the Income Tax Act, 1961 of India. We may be subject to taxation in the U.S. Virgin Islands which would negatively affect our results. None of our Companies is incorporated or managed in the U.S. Virgin Islands (“USVI”), and none of our companies, except for Island Heritage, operates a trade or business in the USVI. Accordingly, none of our companies, except for Island Heritage, should be subject to taxation in the USVI. If the Company or any of its subsidiaries is considered to be engaged in a trade business in the USVI, such company may be subject to current USVI corporate or branch profits taxes on the portion of such company’s earnings effectively connected to the USVI business. We may become subject to taxation in Bermuda after March 28, 2035, which would negatively affect our results. We have received an assurance from the Bermuda Minister of Finance under The Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966 of Bermuda that if there is enacted in Bermuda any legislation imposing tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax shall not be applicable to us or to any of our operations or common shares, debentures or other obligations until March 28, 2035, except in so far as such tax applies to persons ordinarily resident in Bermuda or is payable by us in respect of real property owned or leased by us in Bermuda. The duration of the assurance granted to us under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act, 1966 is limited and expires on March 28, 2035. Tax policy and legislation in Bermuda could change in the future (as is the case in other jurisdictions) and as such we cannot give any guarantee as to whether the tax treatment afforded to us as of the date of this Annual Report would continue after March 28, 2035. If we were to become subject to taxation in Bermuda, our results of operations could be adversely affected. The impact of Bermuda’s letter of commitment to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to eliminate harmful tax practices is uncertain and could adversely affect our tax status in Bermuda. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or the OECD, has published reports and launched a global dialogue among member and non-member countries on measures to limit “harmful” tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of low-tax regimes in countries around the world. In the OECD’s report dated April 18, 2002 and updated as at June 2004 and November 2005 via a “Global Forum”, Bermuda was not listed as an uncooperative tax haven jurisdiction because it had previously signed a letter committing itself to eliminate harmful tax practices and to embrace international tax standards for transparency, exchange of information and the elimination of any aspects of the regimes for financial and other services that attract business with no substantial domestic activity. We are not able to predict what changes will arise from the commitment or whether such changes will subject us to additional taxes. We may be subject to taxation in South Africa, which would negatively affect our results. None of our companies, except for Flagstone Africa, is incorporated or managed in South Africa. Accordingly, none of our other companies should be liable for income tax in South Africa unless it receives or is deemed to receive income, from whatever source derived, in South Africa or it has income that arises or accrues (or is deemed to arise or accrue) in South Africa. As of the date of this Annual Report, each of our companies intends to operate in such a manner so that none of our companies, apart from Flagstone Africa, receives or is deemed to receive income in South Africa or has income that arises or accrues in South Africa for purposes of income tax in South Africa. If any of our companies were to be treated as receiving income in South Africa or earning income that arises or accrues in South Africa, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Profits realized by Flagstone Africa may be distributed to its shareholders by means of dividends subject of course to compliance with the relevant insurance legislation applicable in South Africa. The transfer of dividends, profits and/or income distributions from quoted companies, non-quoted companies and other entities, to non-residents in proportion to their percentage shareholding and/or ownership is permitted by the South African Reserve Bank. South Africa requires that any subsidiary of ours which is a resident of South Africa must withhold certain taxes on any dividends made by that subsidiary to us. We may be subject to taxation in Cyprus which would negatively affect our results. None our companies, except for Flagstone Alliance, Alliance Insurance Agents Limited, Alliance Forfaiting Limited, Flagstone Reinsurance Agency Limited, and Limassol Power Plant Limited (the “Cyprus Group”), is incorporated or managed in Cyprus or carries on business through a permanent establishment in Cyprus. Accordingly, none of our other companies should be subject to taxation in Cyprus. As of the date of this Annual Report, each of our companies intends to operate in such a manner so that none of our companies, apart from the Cyprus Group will carry on business through a permanent establishment in Cyprus. If any of our companies were to be treated as carrying on business in Cyprus through having a permanent establishment in Cyprus, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 45 Index ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 