ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risks and the risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” could materially affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. If any these risks materialize, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to the Operations and Business of PositiveID We have a history of losses and expect to incur additional losses in the future. We are unable to predict the extent of future losses or when we will become profitable. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2012, we experienced net losses of $16.5 million and $8.0 million, respectively, and our accumulated deficit at December 31, 2012 was $111.3 million. We reported no revenue or gross profit from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2012. Until one or more of the products under development is successfully brought to market, we do not anticipate generating significant revenue or gross profit. Further, our subsidiary, MFS, reported no revenue or gross profit during the period from the date of acquisition of May 23, 2011 through December 31, 2012 as it had no active contracts during this period. MFS has submitted, or is the process of submitting, bids on various potential new U.S. Government contracts; however, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining any such new or other contracts. 12 We expect to continue to incur operating losses for the near future. Our ability in the future to achieve or sustain profitability is based on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Even if we achieve profitability in the future, we may not be able to sustain profitability in subsequent periods. Our financial statements indicate conditions exist that raise substantial doubt as to whether we will continue as a going concern. Our audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2012 indicate conditions exist that raise substantial doubt as to whether we will continue as a going concern. Our continuation as a going concern is dependent upon our ability to obtain financing to fund the continued development of products, including the operations of MFS, and working capital requirements. If we cannot continue as a going concern, our stockholders may lose their entire investment. Government contracts and subcontracts are generally subject to a competitive bidding process that may affect our ability to win contract awards or renewals in the future. We bid on government contracts through a formal competitive process in which we may have many competitors. If awarded, upon expiration, these contracts may be subject, once again, to a competitive renewal process if applicable. We may not be successful in winning contract awards or renewals in the future. Our failure to renew or replace existing contracts when they expire could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Contracts and subcontracts with U.S. government agencies that we may be awarded will be subject to competition and will be awarded on the basis of technical merit, personnel qualifications, experience, and price. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially affected to the extent that U.S. government agencies believe our competitors offer a more attractive combination of the foregoing factors. In addition, government demand and payment for our products may be affected by public sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations, with funding reductions or delays adversely affecting demand for our products. In particular, the, BioWatch Generation 3 program, is a very large program, under which we intend to bid as a subcontractor to The Boeing Company. Our success in this process is a very important factor in our ability to increase stockholder value. Compliance with changing regulations concerning corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. There have been changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and new regulations promulgated by the SEC. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards are likely to continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Our board members and executive officers could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies, we could be subject to liability under applicable laws or our reputation may be harmed. Changes in the regulatory environment could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our operations are subject to varying degrees of regulation by the FCC, FDA, other federal, state and local regulatory agencies and legislative bodies. Adverse decisions or new or amended regulations or mandates adopted by any of these regulatory or legislative bodies could negatively impact our operations by, among other things, causing unexpected or changed capital investments, lost revenues, increased costs of doing business, and could limit our ability to engage in certain sales or marketing activities. We depend on key personnel to manage our business effectively, and, if we are unable to hire, retain or motivate qualified personnel, our ability to design, develop, market and sell our systems could be harmed. Our future success depends, in part, on certain key employees, including William J. Caragol, our chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer and Lyle Probst, president of MFS, and on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel may seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly operations, finance, accounting, sales and marketing personnel, may also seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel will be a critical factor in determining whether we will be successful in the future. 13 We will continue to incur the expenses of complying with public company reporting requirements. We have an obligation to continue to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of the Exchange Act which includes the filing with the SEC of periodic reports, proxy statements and other documents relating to our business, financial conditions and other matters, even though compliance with such reporting requirements is economically burdensome. Directors, executive officers, principal stockholders and affiliated entities own a significant percentage of our capital stock, and they may make decisions that you do not consider to be in the best interests of our stockholders. As of March 31, 2013, our current directors and executive officers beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 14.4% of our outstanding voting securities, including 10.7% owned by our chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer. As a result, if some or all of them acted together, they would have the ability to exert substantial influence over the election of the board of directors and the outcome of issues requiring approval by our stockholders. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of PositiveID that may be favored by other stockholders. This could prevent transactions in which stockholders might otherwise recover a premium for their shares over current market prices. Risks Related to Our Product Development Efforts We anticipate future losses and will require additional financing, and our failure to obtain additional financing when needed could force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. We anticipate future losses and therefore may be dependent on additional financing to execute our business plan. In particular, we will require additional capital to continue to conduct the research and development and obtain regulatory clearances and approvals necessary to bring any future products to market and to establish effective marketing and sales capabilities for existing and future products. Our operating plan may change, and we may need additional funds sooner than anticipated to meet our operational needs and capital requirements for product development, clinical trials and commercialization. Additional funds may not be available when we need them on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on a timely basis, we may terminate or delay the development of one or more of our products, or delay establishment of sales and marketing capabilities or other activities necessary to commercialize our products. Therefore, we do not know whether any planned development phases or clinical trials for the in vivo glucose-sensing RFID microchip, the breath glucose detection system, or the iglucose wireless communication device will be completed on schedule, or at all. Furthermore, we cannot guarantee that any planned development phases or clinical trials will begin on time or at all. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: the research and development of our molecular diagnostic products, the costs of expanding our sales and marketing infrastructure and manufacturing operations; the degree of success we experience in potential monetizing the in vivo glucose-sensing RFID microchip and the breath glucose detection system; the number and types of future products we develop and commercialize; the costs, timing and outcomes of regulatory reviews associated with our current and future product candidates; the costs of preparing, filing and prosecuting patent applications and maintaining, enforcing and defending intellectual property-related claims; and the extent and scope of our general and administrative expenses. We and our development partner Receptors are in the early stages of developing an in vivo glucose-sensing RFID microchip, the effectiveness of which is unproven. We and our development partner, Receptors, are engaged in the research and development of applying Receptors’ patented AFFINITY by DESIGNTM CARATM platform to the research and development of an in vivo glucose-sensing RFID microchip. The effectiveness of this sensor/microchip system is yet to be determined. As a result, there can be no assurance that we and Receptors will be able to successfully employ this development-stage product as a diagnostic solution for the detection of glucose in vivo. Any failure to establish the efficacy or safety of this development-stage product could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our product research and development activities may not result in a commercially-viable in vivo glucose-sensing RFID microchip, breath glucose detection system, or iglucose wireless communication device. All of our products are in the early stages of development, and are therefore prone to the risks of failure inherent in diagnostic product development. We or Receptors may be required to complete and undertake significant clinical trials to demonstrate to the FDA that these products are safe and effective to the satisfaction of the FDA and other non-United States regulatory authorities for their respective, intended uses, or are substantially equivalent in terms of safety and effectiveness to existing, lawfully-marketed, non-premarket approved devices. Clinical trials are expensive and uncertain processes that often take years to complete. Failure can occur at any stage of the process, and successful early positive results do not ensure that the entire clinical trial or later clinical trials will be successful. Product candidates in clinical-stage trials may fail to show desired efficacy and safety traits despite early promising results. If the research and development activities of us or Receptors do not result in commercially-viable products, our business, results of operations, financial condition, and stock price could be adversely affected. 14 Even if the FDA or similar non-United States regulatory authorities grant us regulatory approval of a product, the approval may take longer than we anticipate and may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or contain requirements for costly post-marketing follow up studies. Moreover, if we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. Our future product development efforts may not yield marketable products due to results of studies or trials, failure to achieve regulatory approvals or market acceptance, proprietary rights of others or manufacturing issues. Development of a product candidate requires substantial technical, financial and human resources. Our potential product candidates may appear to be promising at various stages of development yet fail to timely reach the market for a number of reasons, including: the lack of adequate quality or sufficient prevention benefit, or unacceptable safety during preclinical studies or clinical trials; our or our collaborative development partners’ failure to receive necessary regulatory approvals on a timely basis, or at all; the existence of proprietary rights of third parties; or the inability to develop manufacturing methods that are efficient, cost-effective and capable of meeting stringent regulatory standards. Our industry changes rapidly as a result of technological and product developments, which may quickly render our product candidates less desirable or even obsolete. If we are unable or unsuccessful in supplementing our product offerings, our revenue and operating results may be materially adversely affected. The industry in which we operate is subject to rapid technological change. The introduction of new technologies in the market, including the delay in the adoption of these technologies, as well as new alternatives for the delivery of products and services will continue to have a profound effect on competitive conditions in this market. We may not be able to develop and introduce new products, services and enhancements that respond to technological changes on a timely basis. If our product candidates are not accepted by the market as anticipated, if at all, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. If we or Receptors are unable to develop and later market our GlucoChip product under development in a timely manner or at all, or if competitors develop or introduce similar products that achieve commercialization before our products enter the market, the demand for our products may decrease or the products could become obsolete. GlucoChip will operate in competitive markets, where competitors may already be well established. We expect that competitors will continue to innovate and to develop and introduce similar products that could be competitive in both price and performance. Competitors may succeed in developing or introducing similar products earlier than us or Receptors, obtaining regulatory approvals and clearances for such products before our products are approved and cleared, or developing more effective products. In addition, competitors may have products that have already been approved or are in a stage of advanced development, which may achieve commercialization before our products enter the market. If a competitor’s products reach the market before our products, they may gain a competitive advantage, impair the ability of us or Receptors to commercialize the products, or render the products obsolete. There can be no assurance that developments by competitors will not render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. Our financial performance may be negatively impacted if a competitor’s successful product innovation reaches the market before our products or gains broader market acceptance. We believe that our products have certain technological advantages, but maintaining these advantages will require continual investment in research and development, and later in sales and marketing. There is no guarantee that we or Receptors will be successful in maintaining these advantages. Nor is there any guarantee that we or Receptors will be successful in completing development of our products in any clinical trials or in achieving sales of our products, or that future margins on such products will be acceptable. 15 Risks Occasioned by the Xmark Transaction We may be liable for pre-closing period tax obligations of Xmark. In January 2010, Stanley, who purchased Xmark from us, received a notice from the Canadian Revenue Agency (the ‘CRA’) that the CRA would be performing a review of Xmark’s Canadian tax returns for the periods 2005 through 2008. This review covers all periods that we owned Xmark. In February 2011, and as revised on November 9, 2011, Stanley received a notice from the CRA that the CRA completed its review of the Xmark returns and was questioning certain deductions on the tax returns under review. In November and December 2011, the CRA and the Ministry of Revenue of the Province of Ontario issued notices of reassessment confirming the proposed adjustments. The total amount of the income tax reassessments for the 2006-2008 tax years, including both provincial and federal reassessments, plus interest, was approximately $1.4 million. On January 20, 2012, we received an indemnification claim notice from Stanley related to the matter. We do not agree with the position taken by the CRA and filed a formal appeal related to the matter on March 8, 2012. In addition, on March 28, 2012, Stanley received assessments for withholding taxes on deemed dividend payments in respect of the disallowed management fees totaling approximately $0.2 million, for which we filed a formal appeal on June 7, 2012. In October 2012, the Company submitted a Competent Authority filing to the U.S. IRS seeking relief in the matter. In connection with the filing of the appeals, Stanley was required to remit an upfront payment of a portion of the tax reassessment totaling approximately $950,000. The Company has also filed a formal appeal related to the withholding tax assessments, pursuant to which Stanley was required to remit an additional upfront payment of approximately $220,000. Pursuant to a letter agreement dated March 7, 2012, we have agreed to repay Stanley for the upfront payment, plus interest at the rate of five percent per annum, in 24 equal monthly payments beginning on June 1, 2012. To the extent that we and Stanley reach a successful resolution of the matter through the appeals process, the upfront payment (or a portion thereof) will be returned to Stanley or us as applicable. Based on our review of the correspondence and evaluation of the supporting detail, we believe that we have adequately accrued for this dispute. However, there can be no assurance that the ultimate resolution of this dispute will not have a material negative impact on our historical tax liabilities or results of operations. Industry and Business Risks Related to Our Healthcare Businesses We may never achieve market acceptance or significant sales of our healthcare products or systems. Through December 31, 2012, substantially all of our healthcare products were under development and had generated only nominal revenue. We may never achieve market acceptance or more than nominal or modest sales of these products and systems. Implantation of our implantable microchip may be found to cause risks to a person’s health, which could adversely affect sales of our systems that incorporate the implantable microchip. The implantation of our implantable GlucoChip, may be found, or be perceived, to cause risks to a person’s health. Potential or perceived risks include adverse tissue reactions, migration of the microchip and infection from implantation. There have been articles published asserting, despite numerous studies to the contrary, that the implanted microchip causes malignant tumor formation in laboratory animals. If more people are implanted with our implantable microchip, it is possible that these and other risks to health will manifest themselves. Actual or perceived risks to a person’s health associated with the microchip implantation process could result in negative publicity could damage our business reputation, leading to loss in sales of our other systems targeted at the healthcare market which would harm our business and negatively affect our prospects. In connection with its acquisition of our VeriChip business, VeriTeQ agreed to indemnify us for any liabilities relating to our implantable microchip. If VeriTeQ is unable to fulfill indemnity obligations, we would be responsible for payment of such liabilities, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Future sales of capital stock may cause our stock price to fall, including sales of shares to the Ironridge Entities pursuant to previous financing agreements with the Ironridge Entities and the resale of such shares by the Ironridge Entities. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by our existing stockholders of shares of common stock in the market, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of March 31, 2013, we had 364,664,476shares of common stock outstanding and we had warrants to purchase 13,286,322 shares of common stock and options to purchase 10,732,992 shares of common stock outstanding. All of the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of our outstanding warrants and any vested options will be freely tradable without restriction under the federal securities laws unless sold by our affiliates. On July 28, 2011, we sold 6,811,989 shares of our common stock to Ironridge Global Technology, an affiliate of Ironridge Technology Co., a division of Ironridge Global IV, Ltd (“Ironridge”), under the common stock purchase agreement between us and Ironridge Global Technology dated July 27, 2011. We also sold to Ironridge Global III, LLC, an affiliate of Ironridge (“Ironridge Global,” and together with Ironridge, the “Ironridge Entities”) 1,500 shares of our Series F Preferred Stock under the preferred stock purchase agreement dated July 27, 2011. On July 12, 2012, we issued an additional 500 shares of Series F Preferred Stock to Ironridge under the purchase agreement between us and Ironridge dated July 12, 2012. The Series F Preferred Stock was issued in satisfaction of any obligation of the Company to issue the success fee shares as provided for in the securities purchase agreement entered into between the Company and Ironridge dated January 13, 2012, which terminated on April 26, 2012 by its terms. On September 12, 2012, the Company entered into a purchase agreement with Ironridge pursuant to which the Company issued 100 shares of Series F Preferred Stock to Ironridge as a waiver to satisfy any penalties resulting from the Company’s late delivery of shares under a conversion of Series F Preferred Stock by Ironridge. Through March 31, 2013, the Ironridge Entities had converted 1,700 shares of Series F Preferred Stock into 122,939,758 shares of our common stock. As of March 31, 2013, there were 400 shares of Series F Preferred Stock outstanding. 16 The shares of common stock the Ironridge Entities may receive under these agreements may be freely tradable under Rule 144 or future registration statements filed by us and they may promptly sell the shares we issue to them in the public markets. Such sales, and the potential for such sales, could cause the market price of our shares to decline significantly. We do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends on our common stock. In July 2008 we declared, and in August 2008 we paid, a special cash dividend of $15.8 million on our capital stock. Any future determination with respect to the payment of dividends will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will be dependent upon our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, general business conditions, terms of financing arrangements and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant. In addition, our Certificates of Designation for shares of Series C, Series F and Series H Preferred Stock prohibit the payment of cash dividends on our common stock while any such shares of preferred stock are outstanding. Our shares may be defined as "penny stock," the rules imposed on the sale of the shares may affect your ability to resell any shares you may purchase, if at all. Shares of our common stock may be defined as a “penny stock” under the Exchange Act, and rules of the SEC. The Exchange Act and such penny stock rules generally impose additional sales practice and disclosure requirements on broker-dealers who sell our securities to persons other than certain accredited investors who are, generally, institutions with assets in excess of $5,000,000 or individuals with net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000, or $300,000 jointly with spouse, or in transactions not recommended by the broker-dealer. For transactions covered by the penny stock rules, a broker-dealer must make a suitability determination for each purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement prior to the sale. In addition, the broker-dealer must make certain mandated disclosures in penny stock transactions, including the actual sale or purchase price and actual bid and offer quotations, the compensation to be received by the broker-dealer and certain associated persons, and deliver certain disclosures required by the SEC. Consequently, the penny stock rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to make a market in or trade our common stock and may also affect your ability to resell any shares you may purchase in this offering in the public markets. The success and timing of development efforts, clinical trials, regulatory approvals, product introductions, collaboration and licensing arrangements, any termination of development efforts and other material events could cause volatility in our stock price. Since our common stock is thinly traded, its trading price is likely to be highly volatile and could be subject to extreme fluctuations in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including (but not necessarily limited to): ● success or lack of success in being awarded, as a subcontractor to The Boeing Company, the Stage 1 BioWatch Generation 3, Phase II contract; ● success or lack of success in being awarded research and development contracts with U.S. Government agencies; ● success or lack of success being granted patents for its core biological diagnostic and detection technologies; ● success or lack of success of the GlucoChip development partnership between us and Receptors and related development costs; ● success or lack of success and timing of commercialization and product introductions of the breath glucose detection system; ● introduction of competitive products into the market; ● results of clinical trials for the GlucoChip and the breath glucose detection system; ● a finding that Receptors’ patented AFFINITY by DESIGNTM CARATM platform, or patents related to the breath glucose detection system or the iglucose wireless communication device are invalid or unenforceable; ● a finding that the in vivo glucose-sensing RFID microchip and the breath glucose detection system infringes the patents of a third party; ● our ability to obtain patents on the breath glucose detection system; ● payment of any royalty payments under licensing agreements; ● unfavorable publicity regarding us or our products; ● termination of development efforts for the GlucoChip, which is the in vivo glucose-sensing RFID microchip, or the breath glucose detection system; ● timing of expenses we may incur with respect to any license or acquisition of products or technologies; and 17 ● termination of development efforts of any product under development or any development or collaboration agreement. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also significantly affect the market price of our common stock. Our financing transactions with Optimus may be deemed to be in violation of Section 5 of the Securities Act, and as a result security holders that purchased shares from Optimus may have the right to rescind their purchase of such securities. Under the terms of the Preferred Stock Purchase Agreements with Optimus, we were able to sell convertible preferred shares, from time to time in one or more tranches, to Optimus. We believe the sale of the convertible preferred stock to Optimus was made in compliance with Rule 506 of Regulation D. From time to time and at our sole discretion, we could present Optimus with a notice to purchase such convertible preferred shares. Optimus was obligated to purchase such convertible preferred shares on the twentieth trading day after the notice date, subject to satisfaction of certain closing conditions. R & R Consulting Partners, LLC, a company controlled by Scott R. Silverman, our former chairman and chief executive officer, Mr. Silverman, and William J. Caragol, our then chief financial officer, loaned shares of common stock they personally owned to Optimus. We were advised by Optimus that Optimus would then sell the borrowed shares into the market and use the proceeds from the sale of such shares to fund the purchase of the preferred stock under the Preferred Stock Purchase Agreements. On or after the six month anniversary of the issuance date, the preferred stock could be converted by us into shares of our common stock and the lending stockholders could simultaneously demand return of the borrowed shares from Optimus. Optimus was able to use the shares it received upon conversion of the convertible preferred shares to replace the borrowed shares. If the resale of the borrowed shares by Optimus is not deemed to be a valid secondary offering by Optimus, and is deemed to be an unregistered offering by us with Optimus acting as an underwriter in violation of Section 5 of the Securities Act stockholders who purchased these securities would have a number of remedies available to them, including the right to rescind the purchase of those securities. We do not believe that the Optimus transaction violated Section 5 since the transaction consisting of the loan of the shares was registered on the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (File No. 333-157696) and (File No. 333-168085), or the Registration Statements, initially filed with the SEC on March 4, 2009 and July 13, 2010, respectively, and declared effective by the SEC on March 12, 2009 and July 22, 2010, respectively. The lending stockholders loaned the borrowed shares to Optimus. Then, Optimus was added as a new selling stockholder to the Registration Statements by prospectus supplements under Rule 424(b) of the Securities Act dated September 29, 2009 and March 14, 2011, respectively. Since Optimus acquired the shares from the lending stockholders, who were previously named in the Registration Statements, and there was no change in the aggregate number of securities or dollar amount registered, we believe Optimus was properly added as a selling stockholder. As a result, we believe that the resale of the borrowed shares by Optimus was properly registered and was not a violation of Section 5. Additionally, we believe that the statute of limitations period applicable to potential claims for rescission under the Securities Act is one year commencing on the date of violation of the federal registration requirements. We believe that the one year federal statute of limitations on sales of shares of our common stock has expired for sales made under the 2009 Optimus transaction, and we believe the federal statute of limitations on sales of shares of common stock expired in 2012 for sales made under the March 2011 Optimus transaction. Statutes of limitations under state laws vary by state, with the limitation time period under many state statutes not typically beginning until the facts giving rise to a violation are known. Our disclosure in this prospectus is not an admission that we did not comply with any federal and state registration or disclosure requirements nor is it a waiver by us of any applicable statute of limitations or any potential defense we may have. If we are required to pay security holders who could opt to rescind their purchase of such securities, it would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are not presently able to accurately determine an estimated amount for any potential rescission liability associated with the resale of the loaned shares by Optimus in the event that the transaction were to be found to violate Section 5 of the Securities Act as we do not have knowledge of the amount and timing of such resales, nor information regarding the state or states in which such resales may have occurred. We know that Optimus sold all of the 6,200,000 loaned shares it received. We believe that the range of prices at which Optimus sold the loaned shares was between $0.50-$3.22 per share related to the 2009 Optimus transactions and between $0.11-$0.63 per share related to the 2011 Optimus transaction. No adjustment has been made in our consolidated financial statements related to the outcome of this contingency. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 18 