ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this report, including the consolidated financial statements and the related notes appearing at the end of this annual report on Form 10-K, with respect to any investment in shares of our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks related to our business and industry If we fail to obtain approval for and commercialize our most advanced product candidate, iloperidone, we may have to curtail our product development programs and our business would be materially harmed. We have invested a significant portion of our time, financial resources and collaboration efforts in the development of our most advanced product candidate, iloperidone, a compound for the treatment of schizophrenia. Our near-term ability to generate revenues and our future success, in large part, depends on the development and commercialization of iloperidone. In November 2007, we announced that the FDA had accepted our New Drug Application (NDA) for iloperidone in schizophrenia. On July 25, 2008, we received a letter from the FDA stating that our NDA for iloperidone in schizophrenia was not approvable. The FDA indicated that it would require an additional clinical trial comparing iloperidone to placebo and including an active comparator such as olanzapine (Zyprexa®, Eli Lilly and Company) or risperidone (Risperdal®, Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) in patients with schizophrenia to further demonstrate the compound’s efficacy. The FDA also stated that it would require us to obtain additional safety data for patients at a dose range of 20 to 24 mg/day of iloperidone. On September 10, 2008, we met with the FDA to discuss the FDA’s position. The FDA asked us to provide a complete response to the not-approvable letter, which we submitted on November 6, 2008. The FDA accepted the complete response for review and has set a new target action date of May 6, 2009. If we are unable to satisfactorily demonstrate efficacy compared to placebo as well as an active comparator, if the FDA disagrees with our characterization approach or does not agree that we have demonstrated adequate efficacy for iloperidone, if we fail to resolve questions raised in the FDA’s correspondence regarding the iloperidone NDA or if we otherwise fail to meet FDA requirements for the NDA or obtain FDA approval for, and successfully commercialize, iloperidone, we may never realize revenue from this product and we may have to curtail our other product development programs. As a result, our business would be materially harmed. Our success is dependent on the success of our two product candidates in clinical development: iloperidone and tasimelteon. If either of these product candidates is determined to be unsafe or ineffective in humans, whether in clinical trials or commercially, our business will be materially harmed. Despite the positive results of our completed trials, we are uncertain whether either of our current product candidates in clinical development will ultimately prove to be effective and safe in humans. Frequently, product candidates that have shown promising results in clinical trials have suffered significant setbacks in later clinical trials or even after they are approved for commercial sale. Future uses of any of our product candidates, whether in clinical trials or commercially, may reveal that the product candidate is ineffective, unacceptably toxic, has other undesirable side effects or is otherwise not fit for further use. If we are unable to discover and develop products that are safe and effective, our business will be materially harmed. 19 Table of Contents Any failure or delay in completing clinical trials for our product candidates could severely harm our business. Pre-clinical studies and clinical trials required to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates are time-consuming and expensive and together take several years to complete. The completion of clinical trials for our product candidates may be delayed by many factors, including: • our inability to manufacture or obtain from third parties materials sufficient for use in pre-clinical studies and clinical trials • delays in patient enrollment and variability in the number and types of patients available for clinical trials • difficulty in maintaining contact with patients after treatment, resulting in incomplete data • poor effectiveness of product candidates during clinical trials • unforeseen safety issues or side effects • governmental or regulatory delays and changes in regulatory requirements and guidelines If we fail to complete successfully one or more clinical trials for either of our product candidates, we may not receive the regulatory approvals needed to market that product candidate. Therefore, any failure or delay in commencing or completing these clinical trials would harm our business materially. We face heavy government regulation, and FDA regulatory approval of our products is uncertain. The research, testing, manufacturing and marketing of drug products such as those that we are developing are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local government authorities, including the FDA. To obtain regulatory approval of a product, we must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the applicable regulatory agency that, among other things, the product is safe and effective for its intended use. In addition, we must show that the manufacturing facilities used to produce the products are in compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices regulations or cGMP. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals and clearances will require us to expend substantial time and capital. Despite the time and expense expended, regulatory approval is never guaranteed. The number of pre-clinical and clinical trials that will be required for FDA approval varies depending on the drug candidate, the disease or condition that the drug candidate is in development for, and the requirements applicable to that particular drug candidate. The FDA can delay, limit or deny approval of a drug candidate for many reasons, including that: • a drug candidate may not be shown to be safe or effective • the FDA may interpret data from pre-clinical and clinical trials in different ways than we do • the FDA may not approve our manufacturing process • the FDA may change their approval policies or adopt new regulations • the FDA may not meet, or may extend, the PDUFA date with respect to a particular NDA For example, if certain of our methods for analyzing our trial data are not accepted by the FDA, we may fail to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates. Moreover, if and when our products do obtain marketing approval, the marketing, distribution and manufacture of such products would remain subject to extensive ongoing regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in: • warning letters • fines • civil penalties 20 Table of Contents • injunctions • recall or seizure of products • total or partial suspension of production • refusal of the government to grant future approvals • withdrawal of approvals • criminal prosecution Any delay or failure by us to obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates could diminish competitive advantages that we may attain and would adversely affect the marketing of our products. We have not received regulatory approval to market any of our product candidates in any jurisdiction. In November 2007, we announced that the FDA had accepted the NDA for iloperidone in schizophrenia. In July 2008, we announced that the FDA had determined that our NDA was not approvable and indicated, among other things, that we would have to conduct additional studies and submit that data before the FDA would approve iloperidone for commercial sale for the treatment of schizophrenia. Performance and completion of additional clinical studies will require years of testing and, even if positive results are achieved, may not result in the FDA’s approval of iloperidone. In September 2008, we met with the FDA to discuss the FDA’s determination. The FDA asked us to provide a complete response to the not-approvable letter, which we submitted on November 6, 2008. The FDA has accepted the complete response for review and has set a new target action date of May 6, 2009. We have no assurances that the response we receive from the FDA will be favorable. An unfavorable response may have a materially harmful effect on our business. Even if we do receive regulatory approval for our drug candidates, the FDA may impose limitations on the indicated uses for which our products may be marketed, subsequently withdraw approval or take other actions against us or our products that are adverse to our business. The FDA generally approves products for particular indications. An approval for a more limited indication reduces the size of the potential market for the product. Product approvals, once granted, may be withdrawn if problems occur after initial marketing. We also are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and recommendations relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices, the environment and the use and disposal of hazardous substances used in connection with our discovery, research and development work. In addition, we cannot predict the extent of government regulations or the impact of new governmental regulations that might significantly harm the discovery, development, production and marketing of our products. We may be required to incur significant costs to comply with current or future laws or regulations, and we may be adversely affected by the cost of such compliance. We intend to seek regulatory approvals for our products in foreign jurisdictions, but we may not obtain any such approvals. We intend to market our products outside the United States with one or more commercial partners. In order to market our products in foreign jurisdictions, we may be required to obtain separate regulatory approvals and to comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The approval procedure varies among countries and jurisdictions and can involve additional trials, and the time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. We have no experience with obtaining any such foreign approvals. Additionally, the foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. For all of these reasons, we may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or jurisdictions or by the FDA. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market. The failure to obtain these approvals could harm our business materially. 21 Table of Contents Our product candidates may cause undesirable side effects or have other properties that could delay or prevent their regulatory approval or limit their marketability. Undesirable side effects caused by our product candidates could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in the denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for any or all targeted indications, and in turn prevent us from commercializing our product candidates and generating revenues from their sale. For example, like many other drugs in its class, iloperidone is associated with a prolongation of the heart’s QTc interval, which is a measurement of specific electrical activity in the heart as captured on an electrocardiogram, corrected for heart rate. A QTc interval that is significantly prolonged may result in an abnormal heart rhythm with adverse consequences including fainting, dizziness, loss of consciousness and death. No patient in the controlled portion of any of iloperidone’s clinical trials was observed to have an interval that exceeded a 500-millisecond threshold of particular concern to the FDA. Two patients experienced a prolongation of 500 milliseconds or more during the open-label extension of one trial. We will continue to assess the side effect profile of iloperidone and our other product candidates in our ongoing clinical development program. In addition, if any of our product candidates receive marketing approval and we or others later identify undesirable side effects caused by the product, we could face one or more of the following: • regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, such as a “black box” warning or a contraindication • regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product • we may be required to change the way the product is administered, conduct additional clinical trials or change the labeling of the product • our reputation may suffer Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing the product candidate, which in turn could delay or prevent us from generating significant revenues from its sale. Our product candidates may never achieve market acceptance even if we obtain regulatory approvals. Even if we receive regulatory approvals for the sale of our product candidates, the commercial success of these products will depend, among other things, on their acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payors and other members of the medical community as a therapeutic and cost-effective alternative to competing products and treatments. The degree of market acceptance of any of our product candidates will depend on a number of factors, including the demonstration of its safety and efficacy, its cost-effectiveness, its potential advantages over other therapies, the reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors with respect to the product candidate, and the effectiveness of our marketing and distribution capabilities. If our product candidates fail to gain market acceptance, we may be unable to earn sufficient revenue to continue our business. If our product candidates do not become widely accepted by physicians, patients, third-party payors and other members of the medical community, it is unlikely that we will ever become profitable. If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our research and development activities and commercialization efforts, we may be unable to continue operations or we may be forced to share our rights to commercialize our product candidates with third parties on terms that may not be attractive to us. Our activities will necessitate significant uses of working capital for the foreseeable future. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the success of our research and development efforts, the satisfaction of certain regulatory requirements, payments received under contractual agreements with other parties, if any, and the status of competitive products. However, given the recent decision by the FDA with respect to the NDA for iloperidone, and that any additional study or studies required by the FDA in order to obtain approval of iloperidone would require significant capital in excess of our currently available resources, 22 Table of Contents we are now operating under a reduced spending plan and believe that, if we continue to operate under our reduced spending plan, our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be sufficient to fund operations at least through 2010. In budgeting for our activities, we have relied on a number of assumptions, including assumptions that we will not conduct any additional clinical trials for either of the oral or injectable formulations of iloperidone, that we will not engage in any further commercial activities related to iloperidone, that we will not engage in further in-licensing activities, that we will not receive any proceeds from potential partnerships, that we will not conduct additional trials for tasimelteon, that we will be able to retain our key personnel, that we will continue to seek FDA approval of iloperidone, that we will continue to evaluate clinical and pre-clinical compounds for potential development, and that we will not incur any significant contingent liabilities. We may need to raise additional funds if one or more of our assumptions proves to be incorrect or if we choose to resume our commercialization efforts with respect to iloperidone, expand our product development efforts, conduct additional clinical trials for one or more of our product candidates or seek to acquire additional product candidates, and we may decide to raise additional funds even before they are needed if the conditions for raising capital are favorable. In our capital-raising efforts, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a bank credit facility. The sale of additional equity or debt securities, if convertible, could result in dilution to our stockholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased fixed obligations and could also result in covenants that would restrict our operations. However, we may not be able to raise additional funds on acceptable terms, or at all. Given the current global economic climate, we may have more difficulty raising funds than we would during a period of economic stability. If we are unable to secure sufficient capital to fund our research and development activities, we may not be able to continue operations, or we may have to enter into collaboration agreements that could require us to share commercial rights to our products to a greater extent or at earlier stages in the drug development process than is currently intended. These collaborations, if consummated prior to proof-of-efficacy or safety of a given product candidate, could impair our ability to realize value from that product candidate. We have incurred operating losses in each year since our inception and expect to continue to incur substantial and increasing losses for the foreseeable future. We have a limited operating history. We have not generated any revenue from product sales to date and we cannot estimate with precision the extent of our future losses. We do not currently have any products that have been approved for commercial sale and we may never generate revenue from selling products or achieve profitability. We expect to continue to incur substantial and increasing losses for the foreseeable future, particularly if we receive FDA approval of our iloperidone NDA and resume commercial planning and activities or we otherwise increase our research, clinical development and administrative activities. As a result, we are uncertain when or if we will achieve profitability and, if so, whether we will be able to sustain it. We have been engaged in identifying and developing compounds and product candidates since March 2003. As of December 31, 2008, we have accumulated net losses of approximately $225.0 million. Our ability to achieve revenue and profitability is dependent on our ability to complete the development of our product candidates, obtain necessary regulatory approvals, and have our products manufactured and marketed. We cannot assure you that we will be profitable even if we successfully commercialize our products. Failure to become and remain profitable may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to raise capital and continue operations. If our contract research organizations do not successfully carry out their duties or if we lose our relationships with contract research organizations, our drug development efforts could be delayed. We are dependent on contract research organizations, third-party vendors and investigators for pre-clinical testing and clinical trials related to our drug discovery and development efforts and we will likely continue to depend on them to assist in our future discovery and development efforts. These parties are not our employees and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. If they fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our drug development programs or if their performance is substandard, it will delay the development and commercialization of our product candidates. The parties with which we 23 Table of Contents contract for execution of our clinical trials play a significant role in the conduct of the trials and the subsequent collection and analysis of data. Their failure to meet their obligations could adversely affect clinical development of our product candidates. Moreover, these parties may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. If they assist our competitors, it could harm our competitive position. If we lose our relationship with any one or more of these parties, we could experience a significant delay in both identifying another comparable provider and then contracting for its services. We may be unable to retain an alternative provider on reasonable terms, if at all. Even if we locate an alternative provider, it is likely that this provider may need additional time to respond to our needs and may not provide the same type or level of service as the original provider. In addition, any provider that we retain will be subject to current Good Laboratory Practices or cGLP, and similar foreign standards and we do not have control over compliance with these regulations by these providers. Consequently, if these practices and standards are not adhered to by these providers, the development and commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed. We rely on a limited number of manufacturers for our product candidates and our business will be seriously harmed if these manufacturers are not able to satisfy our demand and alternative sources are not available. We do not have an in-house manufacturing capability and depend completely on a small number of third-party manufacturers and active pharmaceutical ingredient formulators for the manufacture of our product candidates. We do not have long-term agreements with any of these third parties, and if they are unable or unwilling to perform for any reason, we may not be able to locate alternative acceptable manufacturers or formulators or enter into favorable agreements with them. Any inability to acquire sufficient quantities of our product candidates in a timely manner from these third parties could delay clinical trials and prevent us from developing our product candidates in a cost-effective manner or on a timely basis. In addition, manufacturers of our product candidates are subject to cGMP and similar foreign standards and we do not have control over compliance with these regulations by our manufacturers. If one of our contract manufacturers fails to maintain compliance, the production of our product candidates could be interrupted, resulting in delays and additional costs. In addition, if the facilities of such manufacturers do not pass a pre-approval plant inspection, the FDA will not grant approval of our products. Our manufacturing strategy presents the following additional risks: • because most of our third-party manufacturers and formulators are located outside of the United States, there may be difficulties in importing our compounds or their components into the United States as a result of, among other things, FDA import inspections, incomplete or inaccurate import documentation or defective packaging • because of the complex nature of our compounds, our manufacturers may not be able to successfully manufacture our compounds in a cost-effective and/or timely manner Materials necessary to manufacture our product candidates may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, which may delay the development, regulatory approval and commercialization of our product candidates. We rely on our manufacturers to purchase from third-party suppliers the materials necessary to produce our product candidates for our clinical trials. Suppliers may not sell these materials to our manufacturers at the times we need them or on commercially reasonable terms. We do not have any control over the process or timing of the acquisition of these materials by our manufacturers. Moreover, we currently do not have any agreements for the commercial production of these materials. If our manufacturers are unable to obtain these materials for our clinical trials, product testing and potential regulatory approval of our product candidates could be delayed, significantly affecting our ability to develop our product candidates. If we or our manufacturers are unable to purchase these materials after regulatory approval has been obtained for our product candidates, the commercial launch of our product candidates would be delayed or there would be a 24 Table of Contents shortage in supply, which would materially affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our product candidates. We face substantial competition which may result in others developing or commercializing products before or more successfully than we do. Our future success will depend on our ability to demonstrate and maintain a competitive advantage with respect to our product candidates and our ability to identify and develop additional product candidates through the application of our pharmacogenetics and pharmacogenomics expertise. Large, fully integrated pharmaceutical companies, either alone or together with collaborative partners, have substantially greater financial resources and have significantly greater experience than we do in: • developing products • undertaking pre-clinical testing and clinical trials • obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products • manufacturing and marketing products These companies may invest heavily and quickly to discover and develop novel products that could make our product candidates obsolete. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining patent protection, receiving FDA approval or commercializing superior products or other competing products before we do. We believe the primary competitors for each of our product candidates are as follows: • For iloperidone in the treatment of schizophrenia, the atypical antipsychotics risperidone, including the depot formulation Risperdal® Consta®, and Invega® (paliperidone), each by Ortho-McNeil-Janssen Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Zyprexa® (olanzapine) by Eli Lilly and Company, Seroquel® (quetiapine) by AstraZeneca PLC, Abilify® (aripiprazole) by Bristol-Myers Squibb Company/Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Geodon® (ziprasidone) by Pfizer Inc., and generic clozapine, as well as the typical antipsychotics haloperidol, chlorpromazine, thioridazine, and sulpiride (all of which are generic). In addition to the approved products, compounds in Phase III trials (or for which an NDA has been recently filed) for the treatment of schizophrenia include bifeprunox (Solvay S.A./Lundbeck A/S), and asenapine (Schering-Plough Corporation) and pimavanserin (Acadia Pharmaceuticals). • For tasimelteon in the treatment of insomnia, Rozeremtm (ramelteon) by Takeda Pharmaceuticals Company Limited, hypnotics such as Ambien® CR (zolpidem) by sanofi-aventis, Lunesta® (eszopiclone) by Sepracor Inc. and Sonata® (zaleplon) by King Pharmaceuticals, Inc., generic compounds such as zolpidem, trazodone and doxepin, and over-the-counter remedies such as Benadryl® and Tylenol PM®. In addition to the approved products, compounds in Phase III trials for insomnia (or for which an NDA has been recently filed) include indiplon (Neurocrine Biosciences, Inc.) low-dose doxepin (Silenortm) by Somaxon Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Intermezza® (zolpidem tartarate sublingual lozenge) by Transcept Pharmaceuticals, Inc. • For tasimelteon in the treatment of depression, generic antidepressants such as paroxetine, sertraline, fluoxetine and buproprion, Lexapro® (escitalopram) by Lundbeck A/S /Forest Pharmaceuticals Inc., and Effexor® (venlafaxine) by Wyeth as well as other compounds such as Cymbalta® (duloxetine) by Eli Lilly and Valdoxan (agomelatine) by Novartis and Les Laboratories Servier. Additionally, our ability to compete may be affected because insurers and other third-party payors in some cases seek to encourage the use of cheaper, generic products, which could make our products less attractive. We have no experience selling, marketing or distributing products and no internal capability to do so. At present, we have limited marketing and sales personnel. In order for us to commercialize any of our product candidates following regulatory approval, if any, we must either acquire or internally develop sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, or enter into collaborations with partners to perform these services for us. We may not be able to establish sales and distribution partnerships on acceptable terms or at all, and if we 25 Table of Contents do enter into a distribution arrangement, our success will be dependent upon the performance of our partner. In the event that we attempt to acquire or develop our own in-house sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize our products without partners or licensees include: • our inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel • the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe our product • the lack of complementary products to be offered by our sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage against companies with broader product lines • unforeseen costs associated with creating our own sales and marketing team or with entering into a partnering agreement with an independent sales and marketing organization We will need to increase the size of our organization upon regulatory approval of any of our product candidates, if any, and we may experience difficulties in managing this growth. As of December 31, 2008, we had 24 full-time employees. While we have currently suspended our commercial activities and are operating under a reduced spending plan, if we resume our commercial activities, we will need to expand our managerial, operational, financial and other resources in order for us to manage and fund our operations, continue our development activities and commercialize our product candidates. Our current personnel, systems and facilities are not adequate to support this future growth. To manage our growth, we must: • manage our clinical trials effectively • manage our internal development efforts effectively • improve our operational, financial, accounting and management controls, reporting systems and procedures • build marketing and sales organizations in order to commercialize iloperidone • attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees We may be unable to successfully implement these tasks on a larger scale and, accordingly, may not achieve our development and commercialization goals. If we cannot identify, or enter into licensing arrangements for, new product candidates, our ability to develop a diverse product portfolio may be limited. A component of our business strategy is acquiring rights to develop and commercialize compounds discovered or developed by other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for which we may find effective uses and markets through our unique pharmacogenetics and pharmacogenomics expertise. Competition for the acquisition of these compounds is intense. If we are not able to identify opportunities to acquire rights to commercialize additional products, we may not be able to develop a diverse portfolio of products and our business may be harmed. Additionally, it may take substantial human and financial resources to secure commercial rights to promising product candidates. Moreover, if other firms develop pharmacogenetics and pharmacogenomics capabilities, we may face increased competition in identifying and acquiring additional product candidates. If we lose key scientists or management personnel, or if we fail to recruit additional highly skilled personnel, it will impair our ability to identify, develop and commercialize product candidates. We are highly dependent on principal members of our management team and scientific staff, including our Chief Executive Officer, Mihael H. Polymeropoulos, M.D. These executives each have significant pharmaceutical industry experience. The loss of any such executives, including Dr. Polymeropoulos, or any 26 Table of Contents other principal member of our management team or scientific staff, would impair our ability to identify, develop and market new products. Product liability lawsuits could divert our resources, result in substantial liabilities and reduce the commercial potential of our products. The risk that we may be sued on product liability claims is inherent in the development of pharmaceutical products. For example, we face a risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of our product candidates in clinical trials and will face even greater risks upon any commercialization by us of our product candidates. We believe that we may be at a greater risk of product liability claims relative to other pharmaceutical companies because our compounds are intended to treat behavioral disorders, and it is possible that we may be held liable for the behavior and actions of patients who use our compounds. These lawsuits may divert our management from pursuing our business strategy and may be costly to defend. In addition, if we are held liable in any of these lawsuits, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be forced to limit or forego further commercialization of one or more of our products. Although we maintain product liability insurance, our aggregate coverage limit under this insurance is $5,000,000, and while we believe this amount of insurance is sufficient to cover our product liability exposure, these limits may not be high enough to fully cover potential liabilities. In addition, product liability insurance is becoming increasingly expensive, and we may not be able to obtain or maintain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims, which could prevent or inhibit the commercial production and sale of our products. Legislative or regulatory reform of the healthcare system in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions may affect our ability to sell our products profitably. The continuing efforts of the U.S. and foreign governments, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of health care services to contain or reduce health care costs may adversely affect our ability to set prices for our products which we believe are fair, and our ability to generate revenues and achieve and maintain profitability. Specifically, in both the United States and some foreign jurisdictions there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. In the United States, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 reforms the way Medicare will cover and reimburse for pharmaceutical products. This legislation could decrease the coverage and price that we may receive for our products. Other third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. It will be time-consuming and expensive for us to go through the process of seeking reimbursement from Medicare and private payors. Our products may not be considered cost effective, and coverage and reimbursement may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a competitive and profitable basis. Further federal and state proposals and healthcare reforms are likely which could limit the prices that can be charged for the drugs we develop and may further limit our commercial opportunity. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the Medicare prescription drug coverage legislation, by the possible effect of this legislation on amounts that private insurers will pay and by other healthcare reforms that may be enacted or adopted in the future. In some foreign countries, including major markets in the European Union and Japan, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take nine to twelve months or longer after the receipt of regulatory marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our product candidate to other available therapies. Our business could be materially harmed if reimbursement of our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels. 27 Table of Contents Recently enacted legislation may make it more difficult and costly for us to obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates and to produce, to market and to distribute our existing products. On September 27, 2007, then-President Bush signed into law the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 or the FDAAA. The FDAAA grants a variety of new powers to the FDA, many of which are aimed at assuring drug safety and monitoring the safety of drug products after approval. The recently enacted amendments would among other things, require some new drug applicants to submit risk evaluation and minimization strategies to monitor and address potential safety issues for products upon approval, grant the FDA the authority to impose risk management measures for marketed products and to mandate labeling changes in certain circumstances, and establish new requirements for disclosing the results of clinical trials. Companies that violate the new law are subject to substantial civil monetary penalties. Additional measures have also been enacted to address the perceived shortcomings in the FDA’s handling of drug safety issues, and to limit pharmaceutical company sales and promotional practices. While we expect the FDAAA to have a substantial effect on the pharmaceutical industry, the extent of that effect is not yet known. As the FDA issues regulations, guidance and interpretations relating to the new legislation, the impact on the industry as well as our business will become clearer. The new requirements and other changes that the FDAAA imposes may make it more difficult, and likely more costly, to obtain approval of new pharmaceutical products and to produce, market and distribute existing products. Our ability to commercialize approved products successfully may be hindered, and our business may be harmed as a result. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. Our operating results will continue to be subject to quarterly fluctuations. The revenues we generate, if any, and our operating results will be affected by numerous factors, including: • our addition or termination of development programs • variations in the level of expenses related to our existing two product candidates or future development programs • our execution of collaborative, licensing or other arrangements, and the timing of payments we may make or receive under these arrangements • any intellectual property infringement lawsuit in which we may become involved • regulatory developments affecting our product candidates or those of our competitors If our quarterly operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Furthermore, any quarterly fluctuations in our operating results may, in turn, cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially. We believe that quarterly comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. Risks related to intellectual property and other legal matters Our rights to develop and commercialize our product candidates are subject in part to the terms and conditions of licenses or sublicenses granted to us by other pharmaceutical companies. With respect to tasimelteon, these terms and conditions include an option in favor of the licensor to reacquire rights to commercialize and develop these product candidates in certain circumstances. Iloperidone is based in part on patents and other intellectual property owned by sanofi-aventis and Novartis. Titan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Titan) holds an exclusive license from sanofi-aventis to the intellectual property owned by sanofi-aventis, and Titan has sublicensed its rights under such license on an exclusive basis to Novartis. We have acquired exclusive rights to this and other intellectual property through a further sublicense from Novartis. Our rights with respect to the intellectual property to develop and commercialize iloperidone may terminate, in whole or in part, if we fail to meet certain milestones contained in our sublicense agreement with Novartis relating to the time it takes for us to launch iloperidone commercially following regulatory approval, and the time it takes for us to receive regulatory approval following our 28 Table of Contents submission of an NDA or equivalent foreign filing. We may also lose our rights to develop and commercialize iloperidone if we fail to pay royalties to Novartis, if we fail to comply with certain requirements in the sublicense agreement regarding our financial condition, or if we fail to comply with certain restrictions regarding our other development activities. Finally, our rights to develop and commercialize iloperidone may be impaired if we do not cure breaches by Novartis and Titan of similar obligations contained in these sublicense and license agreements, although we are not aware of any such breach by Titan or Novartis. In the event of an early termination of our sublicense agreement, all rights licensed and developed by us under this agreement may be extinguished, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Tasimelteon is based in part on patents that we have licensed on an exclusive basis and other intellectual property licensed from Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (BMS). BMS holds certain rights with respect to tasimelteon in the license agreement. If we have not agreed to one or more partnering arrangements to develop and commercialize tasimelteon in certain significant markets with one or more third parties after the completion of the Phase III program, BMS has the option to exclusively develop and commercialize tasimelteon on its own on pre-determined financial terms, including milestone and royalty payments. BMS may terminate our license if we fail to meet certain milestones or if we otherwise breach our royalty or other obligations in the agreement. In the event that we terminate our license, or if BMS terminates our license due to our breach, all of our rights to tasimelteon (including any intellectual property we develop with respect to tasimelteon) will revert back to BMS or otherwise be licensed back to BMS on an exclusive basis. Any termination or reversion of our rights to develop or commercialize tasimelteon, including any reacquisition by BMS of our rights, may have a material adverse effect on our business If our efforts to protect the proprietary nature of the intellectual property related to our products are not adequate, we may not be able to compete effectively in our markets. In addition to the rights we have licensed from Novartis and BMS relating to our product candidates, we rely upon intellectual property we own relating to our products, including patents, patent applications and trade secrets. As of December 31, 2008 we had twenty-two pending provisional patent applications in the United States, five U.S. national stage applications under U.S.C. 371 and five pending Patent Cooperation Treaty applications, which permit the pursuit of patents outside of the U.S., relating to our product candidates in clinical development. Our patent applications may be challenged or fail to result in issued patents and our existing or future patents may be too narrow to prevent third parties from developing or designing around these patents. In addition, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect certain proprietary know-how that is not patentable, for processes for which patents are difficult to enforce and for any other elements of our drug development processes that involve proprietary know-how, information and technology that is not covered by patent applications. While we require all of our employees, consultants, advisors and any third parties who have access to our proprietary know-how, information and technology to enter into confidentiality agreements, we cannot be certain that this know-how, information and technology will not be disclosed or that competitors will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques. Further, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. As a result, we may encounter significant problems in protecting and defending our intellectual property both in the United States and abroad. If we are unable to protect or defend the intellectual property related to our technologies, we will not be able to establish or maintain a competitive advantage in our market. If we do not obtain protection under the Hatch-Waxman Act and similar foreign legislation to extend our patents and to obtain market exclusivity for our product candidates, our business will be materially harmed. The United States Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, more commonly known as the “Hatch-Waxman Act,” provides for an extension of patent protection for drug compounds for a period of up to five years to compensate for time spent in development. Assuming we gain a five-year extension for each of our current product candidates in clinical development, and that we continue to have rights under our sublicense and license agreements with respect to these product candidates, we would have 29 Table of Contents exclusive rights to iloperidone’s United States “new chemical entity” patent (the primary patent covering the compound as a new composition of matter) until 2016 and to tasimelteon’s United States new chemical entity patent until 2022. In Europe, similar legislative enactments allow patent protection in the European Union to be extended for up to five years through the grant of a Supplementary Protection Certificate. Assuming we gain such a five-year extension for each of our current product candidates in clinical development, and that we continue to have rights under our sublicense and license agreements with respect to these product candidates, we would have exclusive rights to iloperidone’s European new chemical entity patents until 2015 and to tasimelteon’s European new chemical entity patents until 2022. Additionally, a directive in the European Union provides that companies who receive regulatory approval for a new compound will have a 10-year period of market exclusivity for that compound (with the possibility of a further one-year extension) in most countries in Europe, beginning on the date of such European regulatory approval, regardless of when the European new chemical entity patent covering such compound expires. A generic version of the approved drug may not be marketed or sold in Europe during such market exclusivity period. This directive may be of particular importance with respect to iloperidone, since the European new chemical entity patent for iloperidone will likely expire prior to the end of this 10-year period of market exclusivity. However, there is no assurance that we will receive the extensions of our patents or other exclusive rights available under the Hatch-Waxman Act or similar foreign legislation. If we fail to receive such extensions and exclusive rights, our ability to prevent competitors from manufacturing, marketing and selling generic versions of our products will be materially harmed. Litigation or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to divert resources and may prevent or delay our drug discovery and development efforts. Our commercial success depends in part on our not infringing the patents and proprietary rights of third parties. Third parties may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. In addition, third parties may obtain patents in the future and claim that use of our technologies infringes upon these patents. Furthermore, parties making claims against us may obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability to develop and commercialize one or more of our product candidates. Defense of these claims, regardless of their merit, would divert substantial financial and employee resources from our business. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may have to pay substantial damages, obtain one or more licenses from third parties or pay royalties. In addition, even in the absence of litigation, we may need to obtain additional licenses from third parties to advance our research or allow commercialization of our product candidates. We may fail to obtain any of these licenses at a reasonable cost or on reasonable terms, if at all. In that event, we would be unable to develop and commercialize further one or more of our product candidates. In addition, in the future we could be required to initiate litigation to enforce our proprietary rights against infringement by third parties. Prosecution of these claims to enforce our rights against others could divert substantial financial and employee resources from our business. If we fail to enforce our proprietary rights against others, our business will be harmed. If we use hazardous and biological materials in a manner that causes injury or violates applicable law, we may be liable for damages. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of potentially hazardous substances, including toxic chemical and biological materials. We could be held liable for any contamination, injury or other damages resulting from these hazardous substances. In addition, our operations produce hazardous waste products. While third parties are responsible for disposal of our hazardous waste, we could be liable under environmental laws for any required cleanup of sites at which our waste is disposed. Federal, state, foreign and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations at any time, or if they change, we may be subject to criminal sanctions and substantial civil liabilities, which may adversely affect our business. Even if we continue to comply with all applicable laws and regulations regarding hazardous materials, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and our resultant liability for any injuries or 30 Table of Contents other damages caused by these accidents. Although we maintain pollution liability insurance, our coverage limit under this insurance is $2,000,000, and while we believe this amount and type of insurance is sufficient to cover risks typically associated with our handling of materials, the insurance may not cover all environmental liabilities, and these limits may not be high enough to cover potential liabilities for these damages fully. The amount of uninsured liabilities may exceed our financial resources and materially harm our business. Risks related to our common stock Our stock price has been volatile and may be volatile in the future, and purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. The stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, and the market prices of the securities of life sciences companies without product revenues, such as ours, have historically been highly volatile. Between December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2008, the high and low sale prices of our common stock as reported on the NASDAQ Global Market varied between $7.13 and $0.45. The following factors, in addition to the other risk factors described in this section, may also have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock: • publicity regarding actual or potential testing or trial results relating to products under development by us or our competitors • the outcome of regulatory review relating to products under development by us or our competitors • regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries • developments concerning any collaboration or other strategic transaction we may undertake • announcements of patent issuances or denials, technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results • changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts • additions or departures of key personnel or members of our board of directors • publicity regarding actual or potential transactions involving the Company • economic and other external factors beyond our control As a result of these factors, holders of our common stock might be unable to sell their shares at or above the price they paid for such shares. If there are substantial sales of our common stock, our stock price could decline. A small number of institutional investors and private equity funds hold a significant number of shares of our common stock. Sales by these stockholders of a substantial number of shares, or the expectation of such sales, could cause a significant reduction in the market price of our common stock. Additionally, a small number of early investors in our company have rights, subject to certain conditions, to require us to file registration statements to permit the resale of their shares in the public market or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. In addition to our outstanding common stock, as of December 31, 2008, there were a total of 4,453,629 shares of common stock that we have registered and that we are obligated to issue upon the exercise of currently outstanding options granted under our Second Amended and Restated Management Equity Plan and 2006 Equity Incentive Plan. Upon the exercise of these options in accordance with their respective terms, these shares may be resold freely, subject to restrictions imposed on our affiliates under Rule 144. If significant sales of these shares occur in short periods of time, these sales could reduce the market price of our common stock. Any reduction in the trading price of our common stock could impede our ability to raise capital on attractive terms. 31 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain the requirements for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market, our common stock could be delisted from trading, which would adversely affect the liquidity of our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital. Our common stock is currently listed for quotation on the NASDAQ Global Market. We are required to meet specified financial requirements in order to maintain our listing on the NASDAQ Global Market. One such requirement is that we maintain a minimum closing bid price of at least $1.00 per share for our common stock. Our common stock has recently closed at prices below the minimum bid requirement. If the closing bid price of a share of the Company’s common stock were to fall below $1.00 for a period of thirty (30) consecutive business days, the Company would receive a deficiency notice from NASDAQ advising us that we have 180 calendar days to regain compliance by maintaining a minimum closing bid price of at least $1.00 for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. Under certain circumstances, NASDAQ could require that the minimum closing bid price exceed $1.00 for more than ten consecutive days before determining that a company complies with its continued listing standards. On October 16, 2008, NASDAQ announced that, effective as of such date and through Friday, January 16, 2009, it has suspended the enforcement of the rules requiring a minimum $1.00 closing bid price. NASDAQ has extended its suspension of the rules requiring a minimum $1.00 closing bid price. These rules will be reinstated on Monday, April 20, 2009. If in the future, we fail to satisfy the NASDAQ Global Market’s continued listing requirements, our common stock could be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market, in which case we may transfer to the NASDAQ Capital Market, which generally has lower financial requirements for initial listing or, if we fail to meet its listing requirements, the over-the-counter bulletin board. There are many factors that may adversely affect our minimum bid price, including those described in Item 1A “Risk Factors” of Part I of this annual report on Form 10-K, which contains a more complete discussion of those factors and other risks. Many of these factors are outside of our control. As a result, we may not be able to sustain compliance with the minimum bid price rule in the long term. Any potential delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Global Market would make it more difficult for our stockholders to sell our stock in the public market and would likely result in decreased liquidity and increased volatility for our common stock. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports or publish unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who covers the Company downgrades our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases to cover us or fails to publish regular reports on us, interest in the purchase of our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter and bylaws, and in Delaware law, and our rights plan could prevent or delay a change in control of our company. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws: • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt • do not provide for cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would allow holders of less than a majority of the stock to elect some directors 32 Table of Contents • establish a classified board of directors, as a result of which the successors to the directors whose terms have expired will be elected to serve from the time of election and qualification until the third annual meeting following their election • require that directors only be removed from office for cause • provide that vacancies on the board of directors, including newly-created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office • limit who may call special meetings of stockholders • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders • establish advance notice requirements for nominating candidates for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings Moreover, on September 25, 2008, our board of directors adopted a rights agreement, the provisions of which could result in significant dilution of the proportionate ownership of a potential acquirer and, accordingly, could discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us. We may lose some or all of the value of some of our marketable securities. We engage one or more third parties to manage some of our cash consistent with an investment policy that allows a range of investments and maturities. The investments are intended to preserve principal while providing liquidity adequate to meet projected cash requirements. Risks of principal loss are intended to be minimized through diversified short and medium term investments of high quality, but the investments are not, in every case, guaranteed or fully insured. In light of recent changes in the credit market, some high quality short-term investment securities, similar to the types of securities that we invest in, have suffered illiquidity or events of default. From time to time, we may suffer losses on our marketable securities, which could have a material adverse impact on our operations. Unstable market conditions may have serious adverse consequences on our business. The recent economic downturn and market instability has made the business climate more volatile and more costly. Our general business strategy may be adversely affected by unpredictable and unstable market conditions. If the current equity and credit markets deteriorate further, or do not improve, it may make any necessary debt or equity financing more difficult, more costly, and more dilutive. While we believe we have adequate capital resources to meet current working capital and capital expenditure requirements, a lingering economic downturn or significant increase in our expenses could require additional financing on less than attractive rates or on terms that are excessively dilutive to existing stockholders. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our stock price and could require us to delay or abandon clinical development plans. There is a risk that one or more of our current service providers, manufacturers and other partners may encounter difficulties during challenging economic times, which would directly affect our ability to attain our operating goals on schedule and on budget. One of our stockholders has notified us that it intends to nominate a competing slate of directors for election at this year’s annual meeting of stockholders and to propose resolutions to our stockholders relating to our bylaws and the ongoing operations of our company. On February 13, 2009, we received two letters from one of our stockholders, Tang Capital Partners, LP (TCP), stating its intent to, among other things, nominate two directors to stand for election at our 2009 annual meeting of stockholders and submit proposals at the annual meeting to amend our bylaws and request that our board of directors take action to liquidate the Company. TCP seeks to replace two directors, our current Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman of our board. 33 Table of Contents TCP has also notified us that it intends to propose a series of amendments to our bylaws which, if approved by the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the voting power of all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, would require unanimous approval of the members of the board of directors for a number of critical operating matters, including raising capital, executing material contracts, and hiring certain key employees. If the proposed bylaw amendments are approved, it will be very difficult for us to implement our current strategy and further the development of our compounds because, not withstanding a consensus on the board, any one director, whether nominated by the board, TCP or any other stockholder, will have a veto on these and other critical operating matters. In addition, TCP has requested that our board of directors take action to liquidate the Company and distribute the remaining cash to our stockholders. If we fail to take such action, TCP or other stockholders may attempt to compel a liquidation of the Company through litigation or some other means. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could harm our business, operating results and financial conditions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 