ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are many risks and uncertainties that can affect our future business, financial performance or share price. Many of these are beyond our control. A description follows of some of the important factors that could have a material negative impact on our future business, operating results, financial condition or share price. This discussion includes a number of forward-looking statements. You should refer to the description of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements in the first paragraph under Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K. Risks Related to Our Business and Properties The majority of our infrastructure real property assets are leased to a single tenant. The LGS represented approximately 81% of our total assets on a pro forma basis as of August 31, 2012 and the lease payments under the Lease Agreement with Ultra Newco represented approximately 66% of our total revenue on a pro forma basis as of August 31, 2012. Ultra Newco or Ultra Petroleum, one of the guarantors of Ultra Newco’s obligations under the Lease Agreement and Ultra Newco’s ultimate parent company, may experience a downturn in its business, which may weaken its financial condition and result in Ultra Newco’s failure to make timely lease payments or give rise to default under the Lease Agreement or Ultra Petroleum’s failure to meet its Guaranty obligations. In the event of a default by Ultra Newco or Ultra Petroleum, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting our investment. In addition, if Ultra Newco fails to renew the Lease Agreement and we cannot find a new lessee at the same or better lease rates, the expiration of the Lease Agreement in fifteen years could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. The following is a brief summary of certain risk factors disclosed by Ultra Petroleum in its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, which should be carefully considered before you decide to invest in shares of our common stock. For a complete discussion of the risks that may be applicable to Ultra Petroleum, please review its complete Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011. • Ultra Petroleum’s reserve estimates may turn out to be incorrect if the assumptions upon which these estimates are based are inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of Ultra Petroleum’s reserves. • Competitive industry conditions may negatively affect Ultra Petroleum’s ability to conduct operations. • Factors beyond Ultra Petroleum’s control may affect its ability to effectively market production and may ultimately affect its financial results. • A decrease in oil and natural gas prices may adversely affect Ultra Petroleum’s results of operations and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents • A substantial portion of Ultra Petroleum’s reserves and production is natural gas. Prices for natural gas have been lower in recent years than at various times in the past and may remain lower in the future. Sustained low prices for natural gas may adversely affect Ultra Petroleum’s operational and financial condition. • Compliance with environmental and other governmental regulations could be costly and could negatively impact Ultra Petroleum’s production. • Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas that Ultra Petroleum produces. • Ultra Petroleum may not be able to replace its reserves or generate cash flows if it is unable to raise capital. Ultra Petroleum will be required to make substantial capital expenditures to develop existing reserves and to discover new oil and natural gas reserves. • Ultra Petroleum’s operations may be interrupted by severe weather or drilling restrictions. • Ultra Petroleum is exposed to operating hazards and uninsured risks that could adversely impact its results of operations and cash flows. • If oil and natural gas prices decrease, Ultra Petroleum may be required to write down the carrying value of its oil and natural gas properties. We are subject to risks associated with ownership of the Liquids Gathering System. Our ownership of the LGS subjects us to all of the inherent hazards and risks normally incidental to the transmission, storage and distribution of natural gas and natural gas liquids, such as well site blowouts, cratering and explosions, pipe and other equipment and system failures, uncontrolled flows of natural gas or well fluids, fires, formations with abnormal pressures, pollution and environmental risks and natural disasters. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, significant damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage. Moreover, if one or more of these hazards occur, there can be no assurance that a response will be adequate to limit or reduce damage. As a result of these risks, we may also sometimes be a defendant in legal proceedings and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. There can be no assurance that the insurance policies that we maintain to limit our liability for such losses will be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to potential future claims for personal injury and property damage or that such levels of insurance will be available in the future at economical prices or to cover all risks. We are subject to the risk of Ultra Newco transferring its obligations under the Lease Agreement. The terms of the Lease Agreement provide that Ultra Newco may transfer its rights and obligations under the Lease Agreement at any time, subject to certain conditions. We thus bear the risk that Ultra Newco will transfer its rights and obligations under the Lease Agreement to a third party whose creditworthiness may not be on par with that of Ultra Newco, which could inhibit such transferee’s ability to make timely lease payments under the Lease Agreement or increase the likelihood that a downturn in the business of such transferee could give rise to a default under the Lease Agreement. The occurrence of either of these events could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. Our operations could be adversely affected if third-party pipelines or other facilities interconnected to our facilities become partially or fully unavailable. The LGS connects to other pipelines or facilities owned by third parties. The continuing operation of such third-party pipelines or facilities is not within our control. These pipelines and other facilities may become unavailable, or available only at a reduced capacity. If any of these third-party pipelines or facilities becomes unable to transport the natural gas or natural gas liquids stored or distributed by the LGS, our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our stockholders could be adversely affected. The terms of the co-investment in Pinedale LP may limit our ability to take certain actions in the future. Pinedale GP, our wholly-owned subsidiary, is the general partner of Pinedale LP. Under the Pinedale LP partnership agreement, Pinedale GP is given broad authority to manage the affairs of Pinedale LP and to ensure that Pinedale LP complies with the terms of various agreements to which it is a party, including the Lease Agreement and the credit agreement 14 Table of Contents with KeyBank. The Pinedale LP partnership agreement, however, requires the approval of the holder of a majority of a class of limited partner interests (all of which will be held initially by Prudential) before certain actions can be taken by Pinedale LP, including granting any consent under the Lease Agreement to: extend the term of the Lease Agreement; change the methodology of determining the rent; improve the leased property; reduce the present value of rental payments; merge with, or acquire unrelated assets from, a third party; incur debt, or amend the terms of any existing Pinedale LP debt, that would increase that debt above a specified amount; or issue partnership interests with rights superior to those held initially by Prudential. The approval of one or more of the foregoing matters may not be obtained at a time when we believe that an action requiring approval should be taken. The Acquisition must be approved by the U.S. Bureau of Land Management. If such approval is not granted, the Acquisition may be unwound. We must submit the Acquisition to the U.S. Bureau of Land Management (the “BLM”) for approval. There is a risk that the BLM will not approve the Acquisition. As a result, we would not be viewed by the BLM as the holder of rights in the BLM easements, which could adversely affect our ability to pledge the LGS as collateral for any future debt or sell our interest in the LGS. We are subject to risks involved in single tenant leases. We intend to focus our acquisition activities on real properties that are net-leased to single tenants. Therefore, the financial failure of, or other default by, a single tenant under its lease: (i) is likely to cause a significant reduction in the operating cash flow generated by the property leased to that tenant, (ii) might decrease the value of that property, and (iii) will expose us to 100% of all applicable operating costs. Risks Related to Our Financing Arrangements Our indebtedness is substantial and could have important consequences, including impairing our ability to obtain additional financing or pay future distributions. As of December 31, 2012, we had outstanding consolidated indebtedness of approximately $70 million. Our substantial leverage could have important consequences. For example, it could: • result in the acceleration of a significant amount of debt for non-compliance with the terms of such debt or, if such debt contains cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions, other debt; • result in the loss of assets due to foreclosure or sale on unfavorable terms, which could create taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds; • materially impair our ability to borrow undrawn amounts under existing financing arrangements or to obtain additional financing or refinancing on favorable terms or at all; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to paying principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the cash flow available to fund our business, to pay distributions, including those necessary to maintain REIT qualification, or to use for other purposes; • increase our vulnerability to economic downturns; • limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures; or • reduce our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions. We may not be able to refinance the indebtedness that we incurred to fund the Acquisition. Pinedale LP borrowed $70 million under its credit facility to finance the Acquisition and such indebtedness will mature in 2015 or 2016, if the option to extend the date of maturity is exercised. Pinedale LP may not be able to refinance that indebtedness on its existing terms or at all. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may not be able to meet our obligations as they come due. Moreover, without adequate funding, we may be unable to execute our growth strategies, complete future acquisitions, take advantage of other business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents We mortgage our properties, which subjects us to the risk of foreclosure in the event of non-payment. We expect to mortgage many of our properties to secure payment of indebtedness. If we are unable to meet mortgage payments, the property could be foreclosed upon or transferred to the mortgagee with a consequent loss of income and asset value. A foreclosure of one or more of our properties could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, and ability to service debt and make distributions and the market price of our preferred and common stock. We face risks associated with our dependence on external sources of capital. In order to qualify as a REIT, we will be required each year to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, and we will be subject to tax on our income to the extent it is not distributed. Because of this distribution requirement, we may not be able to fund all future capital needs from cash retained from operations. As a result, to fund capital needs, we must rely on third-party sources of capital, which we may not be able to obtain on favorable terms, if at all. Our access to third-party sources of capital depends upon a number of factors, including (i) general market conditions; (ii) the market’s perception of our growth potential; (iii) our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions; and (iv) the market price of our capital stock. Additional debt financing may substantially increase our debt-to-total capitalization ratio. Additional equity issuances may dilute the holdings of our current stockholders. Covenants in our loan documents could limit our flexibility and adversely affect our financial condition. The terms of our various credit agreements and other indebtedness require us to comply with a number of customary financial and other covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage and leverage ratios and maintaining insurance coverage. These covenants may limit our flexibility in our operations, and breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness even if we had satisfied our payment obligations. If we were to default under credit agreements or other debt instruments, our financial condition would be adversely affected. We face risks related to “balloon payments” and refinancings. Certain of our mortgages will have significant outstanding principal balances on their maturity dates, commonly known as “balloon payments.” There can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance the debt on favorable terms or at all. To the extent we cannot refinance this debt on favorable terms or at all, we may be forced to dispose of properties on disadvantageous terms or pay higher interest rates, either of which would have an adverse impact on our financial performance and ability to service debt and make distributions. Risks Related to REIT Qualification and Federal Income Tax Laws We intend to elect to be taxed as a REIT for fiscal 2013, but may not be able to qualify as a REIT. We intend to elect to be a REIT for federal income tax purposes. In order to qualify as a REIT, a substantial percentage of our income must be derived from, and our assets consist of, real estate assets, and, in certain cases, other investment property. We intend to acquire and manage investments to satisfy the REIT tests. Whether a particular investment is considered a real estate asset for such purposes depends upon the facts and circumstances of the investment. Due to the factual nature of the determination, at this time we do not know whether any particular investment will qualify as a real estate asset or realize income which satisfies the REIT income tests. In determining whether an investment is a real property asset, we will look at the Code and the IRS’s interpretation of the Code in regulations, published rulings, private letter rulings and other guidance. In the case of a private letter ruling issued to another taxpayer, we would not be able to bind the IRS to the holding of such ruling. If we fail to qualify as a REIT we may not be able to achieve our objectives and the value of our stock may decline. Although we believe that the Liquids Gathering System constitutes a real estate asset for tax purposes, that belief is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service or any court and does not guarantee our qualification as a REIT. In recent years, the IRS issued several separate private letter rulings that defined certain energy infrastructure assets as real estate assets for tax purposes. The potential qualifying real estate assets in the energy infrastructure sector include electric transmission and distribution systems, pipeline systems, and storage and terminaling systems. We believe that the Liquids Gathering System constitutes a real estate asset for tax purposes consistent with these private letter rulings. Although private letter rulings provide insight into the current thinking of the IRS on tax issues, such rulings may only be relied upon by the taxpayer to whom they were issued and are not binding on the IRS with respect to us or the Liquids Gathering System. We have not obtained any private letter rulings with respect to the Liquids Gathering System. If the Liquids Gathering System does not constitute a real estate asset for federal income tax purposes, we would likely fail to qualify as a REIT, would not achieve our objectives and the value of our stock could decline. 16 Table of Contents If we elect to be taxed as a REIT, we would be subject to a corporate level tax on certain built in gains if certain assets were sold during the 10 year period following such election. We are currently taxed as a C corporation, which subjects our income to double level taxation. Generally, a REIT is treated as a flow-through entity for federal income tax purposes, as a REIT’s income is generally subject to a single level of federal taxation. If we find sufficient suitable REIT-qualifying investments and satisfy the REIT requirements throughout our fiscal year, we expect to make an election to be treated as a REIT for tax purposes for that fiscal year by filing a Form 1120-REIT on or before March 15 of the subsequent fiscal year, or such later date to which we have properly extended filing such income tax return. We do not currently expect that we will be able to elect to be treated as a REIT for tax purposes for the 2012 fiscal year, but also do not expect that our lack of REIT status will hinder our ability to pay distributions on a quarterly basis. A REIT generally operates without incurring any corporate level federal income tax, which is accomplished by the REIT annually distributing at least ninety percent of its REIT taxable income. If it satisfies the minimum distribution requirement, the REIT generally is entitled to a deduction for dividends paid. The REIT stockholders are then required to report the REIT dividend as ordinary income. A REIT stockholder’s receipt of dividends generally will not qualify as qualified dividend income or for the dividends received deduction discussed above. Thus, if we are able to qualify as a REIT, we will be more favorably treated for federal income tax purposes than our current taxation. In order to qualify as a REIT, we would be required to satisfy gross income and asset tests. Generally, such tests require that a substantial percentage of the REIT’s income be derived from, and assets consist of, real estate assets, and, in certain cases, other investment property. This will be a factual determination that we generally will have to make annually with respect to the income tests and quarterly with respect to the asset tests. There are uncertainties relating to the estimate of our anticipated special distribution. To qualify for taxation as a REIT, we will be required to distribute to our stockholders all of our pre-REIT accumulated earnings and profits, if any, as measured for federal income tax purposes, prior to the end of our first taxable year as a REIT. Failure to make the special distribution could result in our disqualification for taxation as a REIT. The determination of the timing and amount to be distributed in the special distribution is a complex factual and legal determination. We may have less than complete information at the time we undertake our analysis or may interpret the applicable law differently than the IRS. We currently believe and intend that our special distribution will satisfy the requirements relating to the distribution of our pre-REIT accumulated earnings and profits. There are, however, substantial uncertainties relating to the computation of our special distribution, including the possibility that the IRS could, in auditing tax years prior to our REIT election, successfully assert that our taxable income should be increased, which could increase our pre-REIT accumulated earnings and profits. Thus, we may fail to satisfy the requirement that we distribute all of our pre-REIT accumulated earnings and profits by the close of our first taxable year as a REIT. Moreover, although there are procedures available to cure a failure to distribute all of our pre-REIT accumulated earnings and profits, we cannot now determine whether we will be able to take advantage of them or the economic impact to us of doing so. Failure to qualify as a REIT would have significant adverse consequences to us and the value of our common stock. Although we anticipate that completion of the Acquisition of the Liquids Gathering System, when combined with the expected contribution of certain of our assets to taxable REIT subsidiaries, the acquisition of other assets and the receipt of other income, will allow us to meet the income and asset tests necessary for us to qualify for and elect to be taxed as a REIT for fiscal 2013, we cannot assure you that we will qualify to elect to be taxed as a REIT. Furthermore, qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code as to which there may only be limited judicial and administrative interpretations and involves the determination of facts and circumstances not entirely within our control. Future legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may significantly change the tax laws or the application of the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be organized or will operate to qualify as a REIT for fiscal 2013 or thereafter. In addition, we have not obtained an opinion of counsel that we have been organized in conformity with the requirements for qualification as a REIT or that our proposed method of operation for fiscal 2013 and thereafter will enable us to satisfy the requirements for such qualification. If, with respect to any taxable year, we fail to qualify as a REIT, we would not be allowed to deduct distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income. After an initial election and qualification as a REIT, if we later failed to so qualify and we were not entitled to relief under the relevant statutory provisions, we would also be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for four subsequent taxable years. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, corporate-level income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, 17 Table of Contents would apply to our taxable income at regular corporate rates. As a result, the amount available for distribution to holders of equity securities would be reduced for the year or years involved, and we would no longer be required to make distributions. In addition, our failure to qualify as a REIT could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and it may adversely affect the value of our common stock. The ability of stockholders to control our policies and effect a change of control of our company will be limited by certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and by Maryland law. Our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to amend our charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of authorized shares of stock, to authorize us to issue additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock and to classify or reclassify unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock and thereafter to authorize us to issue such classified or reclassified shares of stock. We believe that these articles of incorporation provisions will provide us with increased flexibility in structuring possible future financings and acquisitions and in meeting other needs that might arise. The additional classes or series, as well as the additional authorized shares of common stock, will be available for issuance without further action by our stockholders, unless such action is required by applicable law or the rules of any stock exchange or automated quotation system on which our securities may be listed or traded. Although our board of directors does not currently intend to do so, it could authorize us to issue a class or series of stock that could, depending upon the terms of the particular class or series, delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control of our company that might involve a premium price for holders of our common stock or that our common stockholders otherwise believe to be in their best interests. To maintain our qualification as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and because we expect to elect to be taxed as a REIT for fiscal 2013, our articles of incorporation will be amended in the first quarter of 2013 so that not more than 50% in value of our outstanding stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by or for five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code to include certain entities such as private foundations) at any time during the last half of any taxable year. Our stockholders approved that amendment to our articles of incorporation, and our articles will soon be amended, to generally prohibit any individual (as defined under the Internal Revenue Code to include certain entities) from actually owning or being deemed to own by virtue of the applicable constructive ownership provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, (i) more than 9.8% (in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock or (ii) more than 9.8% in value of the aggregate of the outstanding shares of all classes and series of our stock, in each case, excluding any shares of our stock not treated as outstanding for federal income tax purposes. Subject to the exceptions described below, our articles of incorporation further prohibit any person or entity from actually or constructively owning shares in excess of these limits. We refer to these restrictions as the “ownership limitation provisions.” These ownership limitation provisions may prevent or delay a change in control and, as a result, could adversely affect our stockholders’ ability to realize a premium for their shares of common stock. However, upon request, our board of directors may waive the ownership limitation provisions with respect to a particular stockholder and establish different ownership limitation provisions for such stockholder. In granting such waiver, our board of directors may also require the stockholder receiving such waiver to make certain representations, warranties and covenants related to our ability to qualify as a REIT. Complying with the REIT requirements may cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities or liquidate certain of our investments. To qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. We may be required to make distributions to our stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to make certain otherwise attractive investments or undertake other activities that might otherwise be beneficial to our company and our stockholders, or may require us to borrow or liquidate investments in unfavorable market conditions. In addition, Corridor may be unable to find investments that comply with REIT requirements, thereby limiting our ability to grow or even maintain our asset base. In connection with such requirements if we elect to be taxed as a REIT, we must ensure that, at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified real property assets. The remainder of our investments in securities (other than cash, cash items, government securities, securities issued by a REIT taxable subsidiary or certain other qualified assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our total assets (other than cash, cash items, government securities, certain other securities and qualified real property assets) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 25% of the value of our total securities can be represented by securities of one or more of a certain class of issuers. After meeting these 18 Table of Contents requirements at the close of a calendar quarter, if we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any subsequent calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT qualification. As a result, we may be required to liquidate from our portfolio otherwise attractive investments. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. If we elect to be taxed as a REIT, re-characterization of sale-leaseback transactions may cause us to lose our REIT status. We intend to purchase properties and simultaneously lease the same property back to the seller of such properties. While we will use our best efforts to structure any such sale-leaseback transaction so that the lease will be characterized as a “true lease,” thereby allowing us to be treated as the owner of the property for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the IRS could challenge such characterization. In the event that any sale-leaseback transaction is recharacterized as a financing transaction or loan for U.S. federal income tax purposes, deductions for depreciation and cost recovery relating to such property would be disallowed. If a sale-leaseback transaction were so recharacterized, we might fail to satisfy the REIT qualification “asset tests” or the “income tests” and, consequently, lose our REIT status effective with the year of re-characterization. Alternatively, the amount of our REIT taxable income could be recalculated which might also cause us to fail to meet the distribution requirement for a taxable year. If we elect to be treated as a REIT, we will be required to make distributions, other than capital gain distributions, to our stockholders each year in the amount of at least 90% of our REIT taxable income As a result, we will continue to need additional capital to make new investments. If additional funds are unavailable or not available on favorable terms, our ability to make new investments will be impaired. If we elect to be treated as a REIT, we will be required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, and as such we may require additional capital to make new investments or carry existing investments. We may acquire additional capital from the issuance of securities senior to our common stock, including additional borrowings or other indebtedness or the issuance of additional securities. We may also acquire additional capital through the issuance of additional equity. However, we may not be able to raise additional capital in the future on favorable terms or at all. Unfavorable economic conditions could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. We may issue debt securities, other instruments of indebtedness or preferred stock, and we borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as “senior securities.” As a result of issuing senior securities, we will also be exposed to typical risks associated with leverage, including increased risk of loss. If we issue preferred securities which will rank “senior” to our common stock in our capital structure, the holders of such preferred securities may have separate voting rights and other rights, preferences or privileges more favorable than those of our common stock, and the issuance of such preferred securities could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for security holders or otherwise be in our best interest. To the extent our ability to issue debt or other senior securities is constrained, we will depend on issuances of additional common stock to finance new investments. If we raise additional funds by issuing more of our common stock or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders at that time would decrease, and you may experience dilution. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure and Governance The ability of our board of directors to revoke our REIT qualification or alter our business policies without stockholder approval may cause adverse consequences to our stockholders. Our Board of Directors determines our growth, investment, financing, capitalization, borrowing, REIT status, operations and distributions policies. Although our Board of Directors has no present intention to amend or reverse any of these policies, they may be amended or revised without notice to stockholders. We cannot assure you that any changes in our policies will serve fully the interests of all stockholders. In particular, if we elect to be taxed as a REIT, our articles of incorporation will provide that our board of directors may revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election, without the approval of our stockholders, if it determines that it is no longer in our best interest to continue to qualify as a REIT. If we cease to be a REIT, we will not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to stockholders in computing our taxable income and will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates and state and local taxes, which may have adverse consequences on our total return to our stockholders. 19 Table of Contents Corridor may serve as a manager to other entities, which may create conflicts of interest not in the best interest of us or our stockholders. Corridor’s services under the Management Agreement are not exclusive, and, while it currently does not have any contractual arrangement to do so, it is free to furnish the same or similar services to other entities, including businesses that may directly or indirectly compete with us so long as its services to us are not impaired by the provision of such services to others. Corridor and its members may have obligations to other entities, the fulfillment of which might not be in the best interests of us or our stockholders. We will be dependent upon key personnel of Corridor for our future success. We have entered into a management agreement with Corridor to provide full management services to us for real property asset investments. We will be dependent on the diligence, expertise and business relationships of the management of Corridor to implement our strategy of acquiring real property assets. The departure of one or more investment professionals of Corridor could have a material adverse effect on our ability to implement this strategy and on the value of our common stock. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in implementing our strategy. Provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law and our charter and bylaws could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. The following considerations related to provisions of Maryland General Corporation Law, and of our charter and bylaws, may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or making difficult a change in control of our Company or the removal of our incumbent directors: • We are subject to the Business Combination Act of the Maryland General Corporation Law. However, pursuant to the statute, our Board of Directors has adopted a resolution exempting us from the Maryland Business Combination Act for any business combination between us and any person to the extent that such business combination receives the prior approval of our board. • Our Bylaws exempt from the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act acquisitions of stock by any person. If we amend our Bylaws to repeal the exemption from the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act, the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act also may make it more difficult to obtain control of our Company. • Under our charter, our Board of Directors is divided into three classes serving staggered terms, which will make it more difficult for a hostile bidder to acquire control of us. • In addition, our Board of Directors may, without stockholder action, authorize the issuance of shares of stock in one or more classes or series, including preferred stock. See “Description of Securities.” Our Board of Directors also may, without stockholder action, amend our charter to increase the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have authority to issue. The existence of these provisions, among others, may have a negative impact on the price of our common stock and may discourage third party bids for ownership of our Company. These provisions may prevent any premiums being offered to you for our common stock. Risks Related to Our Non-Real Estate Investments We are dependent upon TCA’s key personnel to effectuate an orderly liquidation of our remaining securities portfolio. TCA’s investment professionals and management will monitor and dispose of our remaining securities portfolio. The departure of one or more investment professionals of TCA could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve an orderly liquidation of our remaining securities portfolio. We will rely on employees of TCA who will be devoting significant amounts of their time to non-Company related activities of TCA. To the extent TCA’s investment professionals and management are unable to, or do not, devote sufficient amounts of their time and energy to our affairs, our performance may suffer. Our remaining securities investments in privately-held companies present certain challenges, including availability of information about these companies and illiquidity that may impact our ability to liquidate these investments in a timely and/or advantageous manner. We currently have securities investments remaining in privately-held companies. Generally, little public information exists about these companies, and we are required to rely on the ability of TCA to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential risks and returns involved with these companies. If TCA is unable to obtain all material information about these 20 Table of Contents companies, including with respect to operational, regulatory, environmental, litigation and managerial risks, TCA may not make a fully-informed investment decision, and we may lose some or all of the money invested in these companies. Substantially all of these securities are subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or are otherwise less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of these investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments at advantageous times and prices or in a timely manner. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our remaining securities portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we previously have recorded our investments. We also may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in the securities of a portfolio company to the extent that we or one of our affiliates have material non-public information regarding such portfolio company. All of our remaining securities investments are, and will continue to be, recorded at fair value. Because such valuations are inherently uncertain, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. We continue to hold investments that are in the form of securities or loans that are not publicly traded. The fair value of these investments may not be readily determinable. For securities investments that are reported at fair value, we will value these investments quarterly at fair value. We have retained Lincoln Partners Advisors, LLC (an independent valuation firm) to provide third party valuation consulting services. The Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for determining the fair value of the investments in good faith. The types of factors that may be considered in fair value pricing of an investment include the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company’s earnings and ability to make payments, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparison to publicly traded companies, discounted cash flow and other relevant factors. Because such valuations are inherently uncertain, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. As a result, we may not be able to dispose of our holdings at a price equal to or greater than the determined fair value, which could have a negative impact on our net equity and earnings. The lack of liquidity in our securities investments may make it difficult to liquidate our securities portfolio at favorable prices, and as a result, we may suffer losses. We have historically invested in the equity of companies whose securities are not publicly traded, and whose securities may be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or otherwise be less liquid than publicly-traded securities. As of November 30, 2012 approximately 26% of our securities investments were invested in illiquid securities. The illiquidity of these investments may make it difficult for us to sell these investments when desired. In addition, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we had previously recorded these investments when we liquidate our securities portfolio. The illiquidity of most of our securities investments may make it difficult for us to dispose of them at favorable prices, and, as a result, we may suffer losses. If our acquisitions do not meet our performance expectations, you may not receive distributions. We intend to make distributions on a quarterly basis to our stockholders out of assets legally available for distribution. We may not be able to achieve operating results that will allow us to make distributions at a specific level or to increase the amount of these distributions from time to time. Also, restrictions and provisions in any credit facilities we enter into or debt securities we issue may limit our ability to make distributions. We cannot assure you that you will receive distributions at a particular level or at all. If we were deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, applicable restrictions could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and could have a material adverse effect on our business and the price of our securities. We do not believe that we are an investment company under the 1940 Act. If during the period in which we are liquidating our securities portfolio we make an investment in securities, or one of our infrastructure real property asset acquisitions were characterized as an investment in securities, we could be deemed an investment company for purposes of the 1940 Act. If we were to be deemed an investment company, restrictions imposed by the 1940 Act, including limitations on our capital structure, could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and would have a material adverse effect on our operations and the price of our common stock. 21 Table of Contents Changes in laws or regulations or in the interpretations of laws or regulations could significantly affect our operations and cost of doing business. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations and are subject to judicial and administrative decisions that affect our operations, including loan originations, maximum interest rates, fees and other charges, disclosures to portfolio companies, the terms of secured transactions, collection and foreclosure procedures and other trade practices. If these laws, regulations or decisions change, we may have to incur significant expenses in order to comply, or we may have to restrict our operations. In addition, if we do not comply with applicable laws, regulations and decisions, or fail to obtain licenses that may become necessary for the conduct of our business, we may be subject to civil fines and criminal penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations or financial condition. Risks Related to Investments in Real Estate and the U.S. Energy Infrastructure Sector We may be unable to identify and complete acquisitions of real property assets. Our ability to identify and complete acquisitions of real property assets on favorable terms and conditions are subject to the following risks: • we may be unable to acquire a desired asset because of competition from other investors with significant capital, including publicly traded REITs and institutional investment funds; • competition from other investors may significantly increase the purchase price of a desired real property asset or result in less favorable terms; • we may not complete the acquisition of a desired real property asset even if we have signed an agreement to acquire such real property asset because such agreements are subject to customary conditions to closing, including completion of due diligence investigations to our satisfaction; • we may be unable to finance acquisitions of real property assets on favorable terms or at all. Net leases may not result in fair market lease rates over time. We expect a large portion of our future income to come from net leases. Net leases typically have longer lease terms and, thus, there is an increased risk that if market rental rates increase in future years, the rates under our net leases will be less than fair market rental rates during those years. As a result, our income and distributions could be lower than they would otherwise be if we did not engage in net leases. We generally will seek to include a clause in each lease that provides increases in rent over the term of the lease, but there can be no assurance we will be successful in obtaining such a clause. Some losses related to our real property assets, including, among others, losses related to potential terrorist activities, may not be covered by insurance and would adversely impact distributions to stockholders. Our leases will generally require the tenant companies to carry comprehensive liability and casualty insurance on our properties comparable in amounts and against risks customarily insured against by other companies engaged in similar businesses in the same geographic region as our tenant companies. We believe the required coverage will be of the type, and amount, customarily obtained by an owner of similar properties. However, there are some types of losses, such as catastrophic acts of nature, acts of war or riots, for which we or our tenants cannot obtain insurance at an acceptable cost. If there is an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insurance limits, we could lose both the revenues generated by the affected property and the capital we have invested in the property if our tenant company fails to pay us the casualty value in excess of such insurance limit, if any, or to indemnify us for such loss. This would in turn reduce the amount of income available for distributions. We would, however, remain obligated to repay any secured indebtedness or other obligations related to the property. Since September 11, 2001, the cost of insurance protection against terrorist acts has risen dramatically. The cost of coverage for acts of terrorism is currently mitigated by the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act (“TRIA”). If TRIA is not extended beyond its current expiration date of December 31, 2014, our tenants may incur higher insurance costs and greater difficulty in obtaining insurance that covers terrorist-related damages. There can be no assurance our tenant companies will be able to obtain terrorism insurance coverage, or that any coverage they do obtain will adequately protect our properties against loss from terrorist attack. If a sale-leaseback transaction is re-characterized in a lessee company’s bankruptcy proceeding, our financial condition could be adversely affected. We intend to enter into sale-leaseback transactions, whereby we purchase a property and then simultaneously lease the same property back to the seller. In the event of the bankruptcy of a lessee company, a transaction structured as a sale-leaseback may be re-characterized as either a financing or a joint venture, either of which outcomes could adversely affect our business. 22 Table of Contents If the sale-leaseback were re-characterized as a financing, we might not be considered the owner of the property, and as a result would have the status of a creditor in relation to the lessee company. In that event, we would no longer have the right to sell or encumber our ownership interest in the property. Instead, we would have a claim against the lessee company for the amounts owed under the lease, with the claim arguably secured by the property. The lessee company/debtor might have the ability to restructure the terms, interest rate and amortization schedule of its outstanding balance. If confirmed by the bankruptcy court, we could be bound by the new terms, and prevented from foreclosing our lien on the property. If the sale-leaseback were re-characterized as a joint venture, we and the lessee company could be treated as co-venturers with regard to the property. As a result, we could be held liable, under some circumstances, for debts incurred by the lessee company relating to the property. Either of these outcomes could adversely affect our cash flow and the amount available for distribution. We may not be able to sell our real property asset investments when we desire. Investments in real property assets are relatively illiquid compared to other investments. Accordingly, we may not be able to sell real property asset investments when we desire or at prices acceptable to us in response to changes in economic or other conditions. This could substantially reduce the funds available for satisfying our obligations and for distribution to our stockholders. Costs of complying with governmental laws and regulations, including those relating to environmental matters, may adversely affect our income and the cash available for distribution. We have invested, and expect to continue to invest, in real property assets, which are subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety. These laws and regulations generally govern wastewater discharges, air emissions, the operation and removal of underground and aboveground storage tanks, the use, storage, treatment, transportation and disposal of solid and hazardous materials, and the remediation of contamination associated with disposals. Environmental laws and regulations may impose joint and several liability on tenants, owners or operators for the costs to investigate or remediate contaminated properties, regardless of fault or whether the acts causing the contamination were legal. This liability could be substantial. In addition, the presence of hazardous substances, or the failure to properly remediate these substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell, rent or pledge such property as collateral for future borrowings. Some of these laws and regulations have been amended so as to require compliance with new or more stringent standards as of future dates. Compliance with new or more stringent laws or regulations or stricter interpretation of existing laws may require material expenditures by us. Future laws, ordinances or regulations may impose material environmental liability. Additionally, our tenant companies’ operations, the existing condition of land when we buy it, operations in the vicinity of our properties, such as the presence of underground storage tanks, or activities of unrelated third parties may affect our properties. In addition, there are various local, state and federal fire, health, life-safety and similar regulations with which we may be required to comply, and that may subject us to liability in the form of fines or damages for noncompliance. Any material expenditures, fines, or damages we must pay will reduce our ability to make distributions. State and federal laws in this area are constantly evolving, and we intend to monitor these laws and take commercially reasonable steps to protect ourselves from the impact of these laws, including where deemed necessary, obtaining environmental assessments of properties that we acquire; however, we will not obtain an independent third-party environmental assessment for every property we acquire. In addition, any such assessment that we do obtain may not reveal all environmental liabilities or whether a prior owner of a property created a material environmental condition not known to us. The cost of defending against claims of liability, of compliance with environmental regulatory requirements, of remediating any contaminated property, or of paying personal injury claims would materially adversely affect our business, assets or results of operations and, consequently, amounts available for distribution. Our focus on the energy infrastructure sector will subject us to more risks than if we were broadly diversified. Because we specifically focus on the energy infrastructure sector, investments in our common stock may present more risks than if we were broadly diversified over numerous sectors of the economy. Therefore, a downturn in the U.S. energy infrastructure sector would have a larger impact on us than on a company that does not concentrate in one sector of the economy. The energy infrastructure sector can be significantly affected by the supply of and demand for specific products and services; the supply and demand for crude oil, natural gas, and other energy commodities; the price of crude oil, natural gas, and other energy commodities; exploration, production and other capital expenditures; government regulation; world and regional events and economic conditions. 23 Table of Contents Energy infrastructure companies are subject to variations in the supply and demand of various energy commodities. A decrease in the production of natural gas, natural gas liquids, crude oil, coal, refined petroleum products or other such commodities, or a decrease in the volume of such commodities available for transportation, mining, processing, storage or distribution, may adversely impact the financial performance of companies in the energy infrastructure sector. Production declines and volume decreases could be caused by various factors, including catastrophic events affecting production, depletion of resources, labor difficulties, political events, OPEC actions, environmental proceedings, increased regulations, equipment failures and unexpected maintenance problems, failure to obtain necessary permits, unscheduled outages, unanticipated expenses, inability to successfully carry out new construction or acquisitions, import supply disruption, increased competition from alternative energy sources or related commodity prices. Alternatively, a sustained decline in demand for such commodities could also adversely affect the financial performance of companies in the energy infrastructure sector. Factors that could lead to a decline in demand include economic recession or other adverse economic conditions, higher fuel taxes or governmental regulations, increases in fuel economy, consumer shifts to the use of alternative fuel sources, changes in commodity prices or weather. Factors that could lead to a decrease in market demand include a recession or other adverse economic conditions, an increase in the market price of the underlying commodity, higher taxes or other regulatory actions that increase costs, or a shift in consumer demand for such products. Demand may also be adversely impacted by consumer sentiment with respect to global warming and/or by any state or federal legislation intended to promote the use of alternative energy sources such as bio-fuels, solar and wind. Should energy infrastructure companies experience variations in supply and demand as described above, the resulting decline in operating or financial performance could impact the value or quality of our assets. Many companies in the energy infrastructure sector are subject to the risk that they, or their customers, will be unable to replace depleted reserves of energy commodities. Many companies in the energy infrastructure sector are either (i) engaged in the production of natural gas liquids, refined petroleum products, or aggregates such as crushed stone, sand and gravel, or (ii) are engaged in transporting, storing, distributing and processing these items on behalf of producers. To maintain or grow their revenues, many customers of these companies need to maintain or expand their reserves through exploration of new sources of supply, through the development of existing sources, through acquisitions, or through long-term contracts to acquire reserves. The financial performance of companies in the energy infrastructure sector, which we expect to comprise all of the tenants for the properties in which we plan to invest, may be adversely affected if the companies to which they provide service are unable to cost-effectively acquire additional reserves sufficient to replace the natural decline. These adverse impacts on our tenants also could adversely impact the value or quality of our assets. Energy infrastructure companies are and will be subject to extensive regulation because of their participation in the energy infrastructure sector, which could adversely impact the business and financial performance of our tenants and the value of our assets. Companies in the energy infrastructure sector are subject to significant federal, state and local government regulation in virtually every aspect of their operations, including how facilities are constructed, maintained and operated, environmental and safety controls, and the prices they may charge for the products and services they provide. Various governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with these regulations and the permits issued under them, and violators are subject to administrative, civil and criminal penalties, including civil fines, injunctions or both. Stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be enacted in the future that likely would increase compliance costs, which could adversely affect the business and financial performance of our tenants in the energy infrastructure sector and the value or quality of our assets. Energy infrastructure companies are and will be subject to the risk of fluctuations in commodity prices. The operations and financial performance of companies in the energy infrastructure sector may be directly affected by energy commodity prices, especially those companies in the energy infrastructure sector owning the underlying energy commodity. Commodity prices fluctuate for several reasons, including changes in market and economic conditions, the impact of weather on demand or supply, levels of domestic production and imported commodities, energy conservation, domestic and foreign governmental regulation and taxation and the availability of local, intrastate and interstate transportation systems. Volatility of commodity prices, which may lead to a reduction in production or supply, may also negatively impact the performance of companies in the energy infrastructure sector that are solely involved in the transportation, processing, storing, distribution or marketing of commodities. Volatility of commodity prices may also make it more difficult for companies in the energy infrastructure sector to raise capital to the extent the market perceives that their performance may be tied directly or indirectly to commodity prices. Historically, energy commodity prices have been cyclical and exhibited significant volatility. Should energy infrastructure companies experience variations in supply and demand as described above, the resulting decline in operating or financial performance could impact the value or quality of our assets. 24 Table of Contents Energy infrastructure companies are and will be subject to the risk of extreme weather patterns. Extreme weather patterns, such as prolonged or abnormal seasons, or specific events, such as hurricanes, could result in significant volatility in the supply of energy and power. This volatility may create fluctuations in commodity prices and earnings of companies in the energy infrastructure sector. Moreover, any extreme weather events, such as hurricanes, could adversely impact the assets and valuation of our real property assets or investment securities. Additional Risks to Common Stockholders Our use of leverage increases the risk of investing in our securities and will increase the costs borne by common stockholders. Our use of leverage through the issuance of any preferred stock or debt securities, and any additional borrowings or other transactions involving indebtedness (other than for temporary or emergency purposes) are or would be considered “senior securities” and create risks. Leverage is a speculative technique that may adversely affect common stockholders. If the return on securities acquired with borrowed funds or other leverage proceeds does not exceed the cost of the leverage, the use of leverage could cause us to lose money. Our issuance of senior securities involves offering expenses and other costs, including interest payments, which are borne indirectly by our common stockholders. Fluctuations in interest rates could increase interest or dividend payments on our senior securities, and could reduce cash available for distribution on common stock. Increased operating costs, including the financing cost associated with any leverage, may reduce our total return to common stockholders. Rating agency guidelines applicable to any senior securities may impose asset coverage requirements, dividend limitations, voting right requirements (in the case of the senior equity securities), and restrictions on our portfolio composition and our use of certain investment techniques and strategies. The terms of any senior securities or other borrowings may impose additional requirements, restrictions and limitations that are more stringent than those required by a rating agency that rates outstanding senior securities. These requirements may have an adverse effect on us and may affect our ability to pay distributions on common stock and preferred stock. To the extent necessary, we may redeem our senior securities to maintain the required asset coverage. Doing so may require that we liquidate investments at a time when it would not otherwise be desirable to do so. In addition, lenders from whom we may borrow money or holders of our debt securities may have fixed dollar claims on our assets that are superior to the claims of our stockholders, and we have granted, and may in the future grant, a security interest in our assets in connection with our debt. In the case of a liquidation event, those lenders or note holders would receive proceeds before our stockholders. If the value of our assets increases, then leveraging would cause the book value of our common stock to increase more than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged. Conversely, if the value of our assets decreases, leveraging would cause the book value of our common stock to decline more than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged. Similarly, any increase in our revenue in excess of interest expense on our borrowed funds would cause our net income to increase more than it would without the leverage. Any decrease in our revenue would cause our net income to decline more than it would have had we not borrowed funds and could negatively affect our ability to make distributions on our common stock. Our ability to service any debt that we incur will depend largely on our financial performance and the performance of our portfolio companies and will be subject to prevailing economic conditions and competitive pressures. Sales of our common stock may put pressure on our stock price. The sale of our common stock (or the perception that such sales may occur) may have an adverse effect on prices in the secondary market for our common stock. An increase in the number of shares of common stock available may put downward pressure on the market price for our common stock and make it more difficult for stockholders to sell their shares. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell additional equity securities in the future at a time and price we deem appropriate. Additional Risks to Senior Security Holders Generally, an investment in our senior securities is subject to the following risks: 25 Table of Contents We will be subject to interest rate risk. Distributions and interest payable on our senior securities are subject to interest rate risk. To the extent that distributions or interest on such securities are based on short-term rates, our leverage costs may rise so that the amount of dividends or interest due to holders of senior securities would exceed available cash flow. To the extent that any of our leverage costs are fixed, our leverage costs may increase when our senior securities mature. This might require us to sell investments at a time when we would otherwise not do so, which may affect adversely our future ability to generate cash flow. Preferred stock will be junior to any outstanding notes or other borrowings. Preferred stock will be junior in liquidation and with respect to distribution rights to debt securities and any other borrowings. Senior securities representing indebtedness may constitute a substantial lien and burden on preferred stock by reason of their prior claim against our income and against our net assets in liquidation. We may not be permitted to declare dividends or other distributions with respect to any series of preferred stock unless at such time we meet applicable asset coverage requirements and the payment of principal or interest is not in default with respect to any notes or other borrowings. Our debt securities, upon issuance, are expected to be unsecured obligations and, upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, will rank: (1) senior to all of our outstanding common stock and any outstanding preferred stock; (2) on a parity with any of our unsecured creditors and any unsecured senior securities representing our indebtedness; and (3) junior to any of our secured creditors. Secured creditors of ours may include, without limitation, parties entering into interest rate swap, floor or cap transactions, or other similar transactions with us that create liens, pledges, charges, security interests, security agreements or other encumbrances on our assets. We may be subject to ratings and asset coverage risk. To the extent that senior securities are rated, a rating does not eliminate or necessarily mitigate the risks of investing in our senior securities, and a rating may not fully or accurately reflect all of the credit and market risks associated with a security. A rating agency could downgrade the rating of our shares of preferred stock or debt securities, which may make such securities less liquid at an auction or in the secondary market, though probably with higher resulting interest rates. If a rating agency downgrades, or indicates a potential downgrade to, the rating assigned to a senior security, we may alter our portfolio or redeem a portion of our senior securities. We may voluntarily redeem a senior security under certain circumstances to the extent permitted by its governing documents. Inflation may negatively impact our senior securities. Inflation is the reduction in the purchasing power of money resulting from an increase in the price of goods and services. Inflation risk is the risk that the inflation adjusted or “real” value of an investment in preferred stock or debt securities or the income from that investment will be worth less in the future. As inflation occurs, the real value of the preferred stock or debt securities and the dividend payable to holders of preferred stock or interest payable to holders of debt securities declines. Additional Risks Related to Warrants and Subscription Rights An active public market for our warrants or subscription rights may not develop. Currently, no public market exists for our warrants or for subscription rights we may issue. We cannot assure you that one will develop or be sustained. We do not currently intend to apply to list the warrants, and may not list any subscription rights, on any national securities exchange or automated quotation system. There may be dilution of the value of our common stock when our warrants or subscription rights are exercised or if we issue common stock below book value. The issuance of additional common stock upon the exercise of any warrants or subscription rights, if the warrants or subscription rights are exercised at a time when the exercise price is less than the book value per share of our common stock, will have a dilutive effect on the value of our common stock. The warrants or subscription rights may have no value in bankruptcy. In the event a bankruptcy or reorganization is commenced by or against us, a bankruptcy court may hold that unexercised warrants or subscription rights are executory contracts subject to rejection by us with approval of the bankruptcy court. As a result, holders of warrants or subscription rights may, even if sufficient funds are available, not be entitled to receive any consideration or may receive an amount less than they would be entitled to if they had exercised their warrants or subscription rights prior to the commencement of any such bankruptcy or reorganization. As a holder of warrants or subscription rights, you will not receive distributions on our common stock. Holders of warrants or subscription rights will not have the right to receive any distributions and will not have any voting rights so long as their warrants or subscription rights are unexercised. 26 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 