Risk Factors.” Sales, Marketing and Distribution Our end-use customers consist of healthcare facilities, such as hospitals and long-term care facilities, healthcare professionals, such as physicians, individual patients, and other customers that purchase our systems for non-healthcare applications, such as construction, oil and gas companies. Our sales and marketing strategy is to sell our systems through multiple channels. However, to date we have sold essentially all of our active RFID systems through dealers. Most of our largest dealers, by volume of systems sold, are focused exclusively or primarily on the healthcare industry. As of December 31, 2007, our sales staff consists of a total of 19 people, based primarily in Ottawa, Canada and at our corporate headquarters in Florida. We have a limited number of medical device representatives strategically located in other places in North America, where we have a number of hospitals that have adopted our VeriMed system. In general, the terms of our dealer agreements for our healthcare security systems obligate our dealers to provide us with reports, on a monthly basis, regarding information such as: • sales and inventory levels for the preceding month; • sales analyses within the dealers’ territories; • forecasts for future sales on a rolling one month, three month and annual basis; and • service and support activity. We use these reports, among other things, to effectively plan our inventory levels, manage dealer performance against sales targets, identify and resolve channel conflicts, and manage our customer support. We market our systems primarily by attending trade shows and medical conferences and by advertising in publications. 18 Table of Contents Our Healthcare Security Systems Infant Protection/Wander Prevention We currently sell our infant protection and wander prevention systems through dealers. These dealers are typically appointed, on a non-exclusive basis, to cover a specific geographic sales territory. The term of such appointment is generally for one year, but subject to automatic renewal from year-to-year in the absence of a termination by us or the dealer. In general, our agreements with our dealers impose no minimum purchase requirements. Some of our dealer agreements include price protection provisions, under which we undertake not to charge the dealer prices higher than the best price we are offering our systems to any of our other dealers. Our dealers of our infant protection and wander prevention systems have responsibility for the installation and after-sale servicing and maintenance of such systems. System installation requires relationships with cable companies, knowledge of the other products that need to be integrated with our hardware and knowledge of local codes. To ensure that our systems are installed in accordance with our standards, we have established a distribution technical training and certification program. In addition to system installation, our dealers provide end-use customers with post-sale customer service and system maintenance. Asset/Personnel Location and Identification System Through March 17, 2008, a limited number of our asset/personnel location and identification systems have been sold and installed. Those systems were sold primarily through two dealers on a private label basis. We are in the process of building out our distribution network for our asset/personnel location and identification system and providing the requisite training to certain dealers in an effort to be at the forefront of the emerging market for such systems in the healthcare sector. We effected a limited commercial launch of our asset/personnel location and identification system to our dealer channel for this system in 2007. Our VeriMed System As of December 31, 2007, our marketing efforts with respect to our VeriMed system have been to provide our scanners to hospitals and third-party emergency room management companies at no charge in order to build out the geographic footprint of the healthcare facilities that can and will use our VeriMed system as part of their standard protocol. We expect to continue this “seeding” process for the foreseeable future as we endeavor to build out our network across the United States and overseas. In addition, we have been marketing our VeriMed system to physicians, who treat patients who fit the profile for which our VeriMed system is intended to benefit, in those geographic areas surrounding hospitals that have adopted the VeriMed system. In the future we expect to utilize dealer arrangements to allow us to more widely distribute the VeriMed system and the microchip insertion kits. Beginning in 2008 we plan to begin a direct to consumer advertising campaign, to educate consumers as to the benefits of the VeriMed system and to direct them to our customer support center and healthcare store fronts that we will co-locate with a healthcare provider partner. This campaign will begin in South Florida where our infrastructure of VeriMed adopted hospitals is strongest and upon success in South Florida will be replicated in additional geographies based on the strength of our infrastructure in those geographies and consumer demographics. Our Industrial Systems Vibration Monitoring Instruments We distribute our Blastmate and Minimate systems to engineering, construction and mining professionals through an independent network consisting of approximately 85 dealers, approximately 35 of which operate in North America. Competition Most of our systems utilize RFID technologies. While certain of our competitors in certain of our system applications also sell products that use RFID technologies, some sell products that incorporate other technologies, such as high frequency radio signals, or WiFi, barcode technology and biometric technology. With respect to the healthcare industry in particular, we are unable to predict which technology will be most widely adopted in the future. In addition, some of our current competitors, as well as companies who utilize RFID technologies in applications outside of our target markets, have significantly greater financial, marketing and product development resources than we do. Low barriers to entry across most of our product lines may result in new competitors entering the markets we serve. Also, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or improved technologies by devoting greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the performance of and support for their current products. We also expect that, like us, they will introduce new products, technologies or services. Our competitors’ new or upgraded products could adversely affect sales of our current and future products. 19 Table of Contents With respect to our infant protection and wander prevention systems, several other companies offer solutions for these applications, including Visonic Technologies, RF Technologies, Innovative Control Systems and Senior Technologies. We believe that competition in these markets is mainly based on product features, reputation, including endorsements by other healthcare facilities, and brand awareness. With respect to our VeriMed system, we do not believe any other company currently offers a human implantable microchip-based patient identification system. Various alternative patient identification solutions are currently available, such as bracelets sold by MedicAlert, health information wallet cards, biometric systems and key fobs that store personal health records. We are currently in the process of seeking to create a market for our VeriMed system, and our competitive position in this market will depend on whether hospitals and other healthcare providers accept this new technology and incorporate it into their standard protocol. Our competitive position will also depend on whether patients prefer our VeriMed system to existing or future identification systems, as well as whether the implant process becomes subject to reimbursement by government and private insurers. With respect to the other systems we offer, we believe that competition is mainly based on product performance and ease of use, purchase price and operating cost. We believe that our systems are designed and manufactured to compete favorably based on these criteria with competitive systems currently in the market. Manufacturing; Supply Arrangements We outsource the manufacturing of all the hardware components of our active RFID systems to third-party contractors, but conduct final assembly, testing and quality control functions internally. To date, we have not had material difficulties obtaining system components. Except as discussed below, we believe that if any of our manufacturers or suppliers were to cease supplying us with system components, we would be able to procure alternative sources without material disruption to our business. We source the custom straps used with our Hugs infant protection systems from a sole supplier, Emerson & Cuming Microwave Products. Emerson & Cuming manufactures the straps at a single facility located in New England, although it operates another facility in Belgium from which the straps could be manufactured. While we and our dealers maintain excess inventory to ensure that we maintain an adequate supply of the straps, we believe it would take several months to make alternative arrangements should we be unable to source these custom straps from Emerson & Cuming. Under the agreement with Emerson & Cuming, we are subject to minimum purchase requirements, with the aggregate amount of our minimum purchase requirements being $4 million over the next five years. We and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Digital Angel are parties to an agreement dated December 27, 2005, as amended, pursuant to which Digital Angel supplies us with the implantable microchips, readers, other products, and the underlying technology relating to the microchip, for use in secure implantable human applications. The microchip and the related underlying technology are used in our VeriMed and VeriTrace systems. Digital Angel is our sole supplier of the implantable microchips, which it obtains from Raytheon Microelectronics España, a subsidiary of Raytheon Company, or RME, under the terms of a separate supply agreement as discussed below. The following is a summary of the principal terms of our amended and restated supply agreement with Digital Angel: • Digital Angel has agreed to sell to us and our resellers, on an exclusive basis, the transponders and reader equipment for our VeriMed system, as well any upgrades, enhancements and improvements, which are to be used for the primary purpose of secure human identification. Digital Angel has committed not to sell these products to any other party if Digital Angel knows or should know that such products are to be used principally for secure identification applications. 20 Table of Contents • Digital Angel has committed to use its best efforts to supply all of our requirements for the transponders and reader equipment as and when required. However, if Digital Angel is unable or unwilling to meet our requirements, we may obtain additional suppliers and Digital Angel is obligated to permit the use of the underlying intellectual property for that purpose. We also have the right to design and build, or cause to be designed and built, and sell, our own readers, to be used for human applications only, and Digital Angel has granted to us a fully-paid, royalty-free, non-exclusive license to utilize one of its patents for that purpose. • Digital Angel may not supply human implantable microchips to other parties if we meet certain minimum purchase requirements, specifically: $0 in 2007; $0.9 million in 2008 less purchases made in 2006 and 2007; $1.8 million in 2009; $2.5 million in 2010; and $3.8 million in each year thereafter, subject to the parties reaching agreement on a different amount. If during any year we purchase in excess of the minimum purchase requirement for that year, the excess will be credited against the minimum purchase requirement for the following year or years. We purchased $0.4 million and nil of implantable microchips from Digital Angel in 2006 and 2007, respectively. • In the event a competitor makes, uses, sells or offers any similar product or service, the price we are required to pay for products is subject to downward adjustment to enable us to more effectively compete. • The term of the agreement ends on March 4, 2014, subject to earlier termination in the event of either party’s default or bankruptcy. However, so long as we meet the minimum purchase obligations under the agreement, the term is to be automatically renewed on an annual basis until the expiration of the last of the patents covering any of the supplied products. • If we desire to have a third party manufacture any of the products, product upgrades, enhancements or improvements, or any new products – for reasons other than Digital Angel’s inability or unwillingness to supply us – we have the right to do so. In such event, we are obligated to pay Digital Angel a royalty on each product manufactured by third parties that would otherwise infringe Digital Angel’s underlying intellectual property rights. Our implantable microchip is manufactured for Digital Angel by RME under the terms of a supply agreement between Digital Angel and RME. The term of that agreement ends on June 30, 2010, subject to earlier termination by either party if, among other things, the other party breaches the agreement and does not remedy the breach within 30 days of receiving notice. Under the agreement, RME is Digital Angel’s preferred supplier of the glass encapsulated, syringe-implantable transponders, provided that RME’s pricing remains market competitive. Certain of the automated equipment and tooling used in the production of the transponders is owned by Digital Angel; other automated equipment and tooling is owned by RME. It would be difficult and time-consuming for Digital Angel to arrange for production of the transponders by a third party. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to procure alternative manufacturing capability if we are unable to obtain the implantable microchip from Digital Angel or if Digital Angel is unable to obtain it from RME or another supplier. Environmental Regulation We must comply with local, state, federal, and international environmental laws and regulations in the countries in which we do business, including laws and regulations governing the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes. We expect our operations and products will be affected by future environmental laws and regulations, but we cannot predict the effects of any such future laws and regulations at this time. Our distributors who place our products on the market in the European Union are required to comply with EU Directive 2002/96/EC on waste electrical and electronic equipment, known as the WEEE Directive. Noncompliance by our distributors with EU Directive 2002/96/EC may adversely affect the success of our business in that market. Additionally, we are investigating the applicability of EU Directive 2002/95/EC on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment, known as the RoHS Directive which took effect on July 1, 2006. We do not expect the RoHS Directive will have a significant impact on our business. 21 Table of Contents Government Regulation Laws and Regulations Pertaining to RFID Technologies Our active RFID systems, as well as our RFID systems that use our implantable microchip, rely on low-power, localized use of radio frequency spectrum to operate. As a result, we must comply with U.S. Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, and Industry Canada regulations, as well as the laws and regulations of other jurisdictions where we sell our products, governing the design, testing, marketing, operation and sale of RFID devices. Accordingly, all of our products and systems have a paired FCC and Industry Canada equipment authorization. U.S. Federal Communications Commission Regulations Under FCC regulations and Section 302 of the Communications Act, RFID devices, including those we market and sell, must be authorized and comply with all applicable technical standards and labeling requirements prior to being marketed in the United States. The FCC’s rules prescribe technical, operational and design requirements for devices that operate on the electromagnetic spectrum at very low powers. The rules ensure that such devices do not cause interference to licensed spectrum services, mislead consumers regarding their operational capabilities or produce emissions that are harmful to human health. Our RFID devices are intentional radiators, as defined in the FCC’s rules. As such, our devices may not cause harmful interference to licensed services and must accept any interference received. We must construct all equipment in accordance with good engineering design as well as manufacturers’ practices. Manufacturers of RFID devices must submit testing results and/or other technical information demonstrating compliance with the FCC’s rules in the form of an application for equipment authorization. The FCC processes each application when it is in a form acceptable for filing and, upon grant, issues an equipment identification number. Each of our RFID devices must bear a label which displays the equipment authorization number, as well as specific language set forth in the FCC’s rules. In addition, each device must include a user manual cautioning users that changes or modifications not expressly approved by the manufacturer could void the equipment authorization. As a condition of each FCC equipment authorization, we warrant that each of our devices marked under the grant and bearing the grant identifier will conform to all the technical and operational measurements submitted with the application. RFID devices used and/or sold in interstate commerce must meet these requirements or the equipment authorization may be revoked, the devices may be seized and a forfeiture may be assessed against the equipment authorization grantee. The FCC requires all holders of equipment authorizations to maintain a copy of each authorization together with all supporting documentation and make these records available for FCC inspection upon request. The FCC may also conduct periodic sampling tests of equipment to ensure compliance. We believe we are in substantial compliance with all FCC requirements applicable to our products and systems. Industry Canada Regulations Industry Canada regulates the design, sale and use of radio communications devices in accordance with its Radio Standards Specifications, or RSS, and Radio Standards Procedures, or RSP. As intentional emitters, our RFID devices are subject to Industry Canada’s RSP-100, which establishes the procedures by which RFID communications equipment receives certification by Industry Canada. The RSP-100 certification procedure and RSS standards ensure that RFID radio devices do not cause interference to licensed spectrum services and that the devices do not produce emissions that are harmful to human health. Manufacturers of RFID devices must demonstrate compliance with RSP-100 and RSS-210. Industry Canada requires manufacturers of RFID devices to file an application and agreement for certification of services. A manufacturer of active RFID equipment must submit testing results and/or other technical information demonstrating compliance with RSS-210 along with the manufacturer’s application. Industry Canada’s Certification and Engineering Bureau processes the application and, upon grant, issues a unique certification/registration number, which is required to be displayed on each certified piece of equipment. In addition, in accordance with RSS-Gen, the following information must appear on any radio frequency device: the certification/registration number; the manufacturer’s name, trade name or brand name; and the model name or number. 22 Table of Contents Each RFID device must include a user manual. The user manual must identify that the radio frequency device operates on a no interference, no protection basis, meaning that the device may not cause radio interference and cannot claim protection from interference. Radio frequency devices that do not meet the certification, labeling and user manual provision requirements and are sold within or between the Canadian territories/provinces are subject to penalty by Industry Canada, which may include seizure of the devices and/or assessment of forfeitures. Industry Canada will also conduct audit checks, from time to time, to ensure compliance. We believe we are in substantial compliance with all Industry Canada requirements applicable to our products and systems. Regulation by the FDA Our VeriMed microchip is a medical device subject to regulation by the FDA, as well as other federal and state regulatory bodies in the United States and comparable authorities in other countries. In October 2004, the VeriMed system received classification as a Class II medical device by the FDA for patient identification and health information purposes. The FDA also permits us to market and sell the VeriMed system in the United States. FDA Premarket Clearance and Approval Requirements. Generally speaking, unless an exemption applies, each medical device we wish to distribute commercially in the United States will require either prior clearance under Section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FFDCA, or a premarket approval application, or PMA, from the FDA. Medical devices are classified into one of three classes – Class I, Class II or Class III – depending on the degree of risk to the patient associated with the medical device and the extent of control needed to ensure safety and effectiveness. Devices deemed to pose lower risks are placed in either Class I or II. The manufacturer of a Class II device is typically required to submit to the FDA a premarket notification requesting permission to commercially distribute the device and demonstrating that the proposed device is substantially equivalent to a previously cleared and legally marketed 510(k) device or a device that was in commercial distribution before May 28, 1976 for which the FDA has not yet called for the submission of a PMA. This process is known as 510(k) clearance. Devices deemed by the FDA to pose the greatest risk, such as life-sustaining, life-supporting implantable devices, or devices deemed not substantially equivalent to a previously cleared 510(k) device, are generally placed in Class III, requiring premarket approval. In October 2004, we received classification of our VeriMed system as a Class II device. In granting this classification, the FDA created a new device category for “implantable radiofrequency transponder systems for patient identification and health information.” The FDA also determined that devices that meet this description will be exempt from 510(k) premarket clearance so long as they comply with the FFDCA, its implementing regulations and the provisions of an FDA guidance document issued by the FDA in December 2004, entitled “ Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff, Class II Special Controls Guidance Document: Implantable Radiofrequency Transponder System for Patient Identification and Health Information,” that establishes special controls for this type of device. The special controls, which are intended to ensure that the device is safe and effective for its intended use, include the following: biocompatibility testing, information security procedures, performance standard verification, software validation, electro-magnetic compatibility and sterility testing. We believe that we are in compliance with FFDCA, its implementing regulations and the December 2004 guidance document. Similarly, a company that wishes to market products that will compete with the VeriMed system will not be required to submit a 510(k) premarket clearance application to the FDA if they comply with the requirements of the special controls guidance document as well as a full spectrum of FDA regulations, described more fully below. In January, 2007, the FDA published a Draft Guidance entitled “ Radio-Frequency Wireless Technology in Medical Devices.” This document includes the FDA’s current recommendations regarding specific risks and limitations to be considered when developing and implementing a Quality System for medical devices using radio frequency wireless technology, as well as additional information to be included in the labeling for such devices. We believe our Quality System and labeling for our VeriMed System meet the recommendations outlined in the draft guidance. 23 Table of Contents Pervasive and Continuing Regulation. After a medical device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements continue to apply. These include: • quality system regulations, or QSR, which require manufacturers, including third-party manufacturers, to follow stringent design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during all aspects of the manufacturing process; • labeling regulations and FDA prohibitions against the promotion of regulated products for uncleared, unapproved or off-label uses; • clearance or approval of product modifications that could significantly affect safety or effectiveness or that would constitute a major change in intended use; • medical device reporting, or MDR, regulations, which require that a manufacturer report to the FDA if the manufacturer’s device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur; and • post-market surveillance regulations, which apply when necessary to protect the public health or to provide additional safety and effectiveness data for the device. Our manufacturer, Digital Angel, has registered with the FDA as a medical device manufacturer. The FDA has broad post-market and regulatory enforcement powers. We are subject to unannounced inspections by the FDA to determine our compliance with the QSR and other regulations, and these inspections may include the manufacturing facilities of our suppliers. The Digital Angel manufacturing facility located in St. Paul, Minnesota, was inspected by the FDA in late May and early June 2006, during which the FDA inspector conducted a routine Level II Quality System Inspectional Technique inspection. During the inspection, the FDA inspector made three verbal observations regarding deviations in Digital Angel’s quality system unrelated to our implantable microchip. It is our understanding that Digital Angel has corrected the three deviations. To our knowledge, the Raytheon Microelectronics España facility has not yet been inspected by the FDA. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action by the FDA, which may include any of the following sanctions: • FDA Form 483s, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; • repair, replacement, refunds, recall or seizure of products; • operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; • refusing requests for 510(k) clearance or premarket approval of new products, new intended uses or modifications to existing products; • withdrawing 510(k) clearance or premarket approvals that have already been granted; and • criminal prosecution. Fraud and Abuse We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and Veterans Affairs health programs. We have never been challenged by a government authority under any of these laws and believe that our operations are in material compliance with such laws. However, because of the far-reaching nature of these laws, there can be no assurance that we would not be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. In addition, there can be no assurance that the occurrence of one or more violations of these laws would not result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents Anti-Kickback Laws We may directly or indirectly be subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws. In particular, the federal healthcare program Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing, arranging for or recommending a good or service, for which payment may be made in whole or part under federal healthcare programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Penalties for violations include criminal penalties and civil sanctions such as fines, imprisonment and possible exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs. Federal False Claims Act We may become subject to the Federal False Claims Act, or FCA. The FCA imposes civil fines and penalties against anyone who knowingly submits or causes to be submitted to a government agency a false claim for payment. The FCA contains so-called “whistle-blower” provisions that permit a private individual to bring a claim, called a qui tam action, on behalf of the government to recover payments made as a result of a false claim. The statute provides that the whistle-blower may be paid a portion of any funds recovered as a result of the lawsuit. Even though the VeriMed system is not reimbursed by federal healthcare programs, it is still possible that we may be liable for violations of the FCA, for instance, if a sales representative were to assist or instruct a physician to bill a government program for microchip implantation by listing on the claim form some other service that is reimbursable. State Laws and Regulations Many states have enacted laws similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and FCA. The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 contains provisions that give monetary incentives to states to enact new state false claims acts. The state Attorneys General are actively engaged in promoting the passage and enforcement of these laws. While the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute and FCA apply only to federal programs, many similar state laws apply both to state funded and to commercial health care programs. In addition to these laws, all states have passed various consumer protection statutes. These statutes generally prohibit deceptive and unfair marketing practices, including making untrue or exaggerated claims regarding consumer products. There are potentially a wide variety of other state laws, including state privacy laws, to which we might be subject. We have not conducted an exhaustive examination of these state laws. Privacy Laws and Regulations Our VeriMed business is subject to various federal and state laws regulating the protection of consumer privacy. We have never been challenged by a governmental authority under any of these laws and believe that our operations are in material compliance with such laws. However, because of the far-reaching nature of these laws, there can be no assurance that we would not be required to alter one or more of our systems and data security procedures to be in compliance with these laws. Our failure to protect health information received from customers could subject us to liability and adverse publicity and could harm our business and impair our ability to attract new customers. U.S. Federal Trade Commission Oversight An increasing focus of the United States Federal Trade Commission’s (FTC’s) consumer protection regulation is the impact of technological change on protection of consumer privacy. Under the FTC’s statutory authority to prosecute unfair or deceptive acts and practices, the FTC vigorously enforces promises a business makes about how personal information is collected, used and secured. Since 1999, the FTC has taken enforcement action against companies that do not abide by their representations to consumers of electronic security and privacy. More recently, the FTC has found that failure to take reasonable and appropriate security measures to protect sensitive personal information is an unfair practice violating federal law. In the consent decree context, offenders are routinely required to adopt very specific cybersecurity and internal compliance mechanisms, as well as submit to twenty years of independent compliance audits. Businesses that do not adopt reasonable and appropriate data security controls have been found liable for as much as $10 million in civil penalties and $5 million in consumer redress. 25 Table of Contents The FTC continues to actively consider the potential impact of RFID on consumer protection issues. In 2006, the FTC launched a new initiative, “Protecting Consumers in the Next Tech-ade” and convened public hearings on November 6-8, 2006 that brought together experts from the business, government and technology sectors as well as consumer advocates, academics and law enforcement officials to explore ways in which convergence and the globalization of commerce impact consumer protection. Panelists examined changes in marketing and technology over the past decade and challenges facing consumers, business and government. One of the panels, entitled “RFID Technology in the Next Tech-ade,” focused on the role of RFID in the healthcare and retail sectors. State Legislation During 2007, several state legislatures considered legislation addressing implantable chips and consumer privacy concerns. Among the laws passed was a California bill prohibiting anyone from requiring, coercing or compelling any other individual to undergo a subcutaneous chip implant. The California law provides for a private cause of action for damages and injunctive relief. In addition, North Dakota passed a law prohibiting any person from requiring another to undergo a “microchip implant.” Violation of the North Dakota law is a misdemeanor. The Michigan legislature also considered, but did not pass, a law similar to that of North Dakota that would have prohibited chip implantation without the recipient’s prior consent. A number of states also have introduced legislation focusing on the consumer privacy implications of RFID use in government identification documents, prescription drug tracking and retail sales. As of December 31, 2007, none of this legislative activity restricts our current or planned operations. Many states have privacy laws relating specifically to the use and disclosure of healthcare information. Federal healthcare privacy laws preempt state laws that are less restrictive than the federal law, but more restrictive state laws still may apply to us. Therefore, we may be required to comply with one or more of these multiple state privacy laws. Statutory penalties for violation of these state privacy laws varies widely. Violations also may subject us to lawsuits for invasion of privacy claims. The European Union In the European Union (EU), promotion of RFID technology is viewed as a critical economic issue. It is established that insofar as RFID is a technology involving collection, sharing and storage of personally identifiable information, the mandates of Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the Protection of Individuals With Regard to the Processing of Personal Data and On the Free Movement of Such Data (“EU Data Directive”) applies. All 25 EU member countries have implemented the EU data directive. At issue today is whether additional privacy protection laws beyond those prescribed by the EU data directive and its country-specific laws are needed for privacy issues raised by RFID technology. On January 19, 2005, the EU’s Working Party 29, charged with interpretation and expansion of EU data protection law and policy, adopted Working Document 105, addressing data protection issues related to RFID technology. That document reinforced the need to comply with the basic principles of the EU data directive and related documents whenever personal data is collected via RFID technology. Guidance to RFID manufacturers was also provided regarding responsibilities to design privacy compliant technology. The EU recently completed a six-month consultation with public and industry stakeholders on the use of RFID tags. At a conference held on October 16, 2006, the Commissioner for Information Society and Media, the top official leading the RFID consultation, announced that the EU must consider adopting a specialized legal framework to ensure that RFID technology does not infringe on privacy. The consultation results indicated that while the EU was prepared to be convinced of the benefits of RFID, the public expressed great concerns about ensuring that privacy is not compromised. 26 Table of Contents Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 We are not a health care provider, health plan or health care clearinghouse. Therefore, we are not subject to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA. To the extent required by HIPAA, we have entered into business associate agreements with certain health care providers and health plans relating to the privacy and security of protected health information. We have implemented policies and procedures to enable us to comply with these HIPAA business associate agreements. Employees As of March 17, 2008, we had 152 employees, of whom 46 were in our sales and marketing group, 27 were in project management/technical support, 30 were in research and development, 34 were in operations and 15 were in finance and administration. We consider our relationship with our employees to be satisfactory and have not experienced any interruptions of our operations as a result of labor disagreements. None of our employees are represented by labor unions or covered by collective bargaining agreements. Financial Information About Segments and Geographic Areas For a discussion of revenues attributed to our three business segments and to geographic areas over the past three years, refer to Note 13 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 27 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risks and the risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” could materially affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. If any these risks materialize, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business If we cannot successfully implement our business strategy, we expect that our business, results of operations and potential for growth will be adversely affected. If our market assessments, or the assumptions, estimates and judgments underlying such assessments, on which we have charted our course for our business, prove to be incorrect, we may not be successful in implementing our strategy or achieving our objectives. In that case, we would expect that our business, results of operations, financial condition and potential for growth will be adversely affected. Our business strategy for our Canadian-based business, from which we are currently generating substantially all of our revenue, includes: • endeavoring to market and sell, through international distributors, an increasing number of our infant protection, wander prevention and asset/personnel location and identification systems outside of North America, where the market for these products is largely undeveloped; • leveraging our established brand recognition, reseller network and extensive end-use customer base for our infant protection and wander prevention systems to gain inroads in the emerging market for asset/personnel location and identification systems; and • introducing a new vibration monitoring instrumentation platform that better integrates with contemporary data communications protocols so as to improve our vibration monitoring instruments’ remote monitoring capabilities. Our business strategy also includes dedicating a portion of the operating cash flows derived from our healthcare security, implantable and industrial, businesses, as well as a portion of the net proceeds from our initial public offering, to funding our efforts to create markets for our systems that utilize our implantable microchip, principally our VeriMed system, from which, to date, we have generated only nominal revenue. We do not expect to generate more than nominal revenue from these systems over the next 12 to 18 months and possibly for a longer period of time. We may decide to alter or discontinue aspects of our business strategy and may adopt alternative or additional strategies because of business or competitive factors or factors not currently foreseen, such as the introduction of new products by our competitors or the emergence of new technologies that would make our products and systems obsolete. If we are unable to successfully implement our current or future business strategy, our business, results of operations, financial condition and potential for growth may be adversely affected. We have a history of losses, and expect to incur additional losses in the future. We are unable to predict the extent of future losses or when we will become profitable. We were formed by Digital Angel in November 2001 and have incurred operating losses since that time. Our accumulated deficit was $29.0 million as of December 31, 2007. Our net losses for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, 2005 and 2004 were $11.9 million, $6.7 million, $5.3 million and $2.0 million, respectively. We expect to continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. Our ability in the future to achieve or sustain profitability is based on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the future demand for our active RFID systems targeted at the healthcare sector and the development of the market for our VeriMed system. If demand for our RFID systems generally, and the VeriMed system in particular, does not reach anticipated levels, or if we fail to manage our cost structure, we may not achieve or be able to sustain profitability. 28 Table of Contents Our expense levels will increase over the next several years, contributing to our expectation that we will incur losses for the foreseeable future. We expect our operating expenses to increase over the next several years. For example, our operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2007 were 31.7% higher than our operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2006. The increase in 2007 was due, in part, to the expansion of our sales and marketing efforts to create a market for our VeriMed system and our having become an SEC-reporting and Nasdaq-listed company. The increase in future operating expenses will result from, among other things: • the expansion of our sales and marketing efforts to create a market for our VeriMed system as we expect to continue the buildout of our VeriMed infrastructure in the geographies in which we currently operate and to expand our geographical reach during 2008; and • our having become an SEC-reporting and Nasdaq-listed company and, as such, being subject to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, SEC rules and regulations to implement certain of the Act’s provisions, including the requirement to have in place, and evaluate, internal control over financial reporting, and Nasdaq listing standards. This Annual Report on Form 10-K does not include an attestation report of our registered public accounting firm due to a transition period established by rules of the SEC for newly public companies. Our independent registered public accounting firm will not be engaged to attest to management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting until our annual report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2008. In addition, we will incur significant amortization expense associated with intangible assets that we acquired as a result of the acquisition of our Canadian-based businesses in the first half of 2005. Specifically, we incurred approximately $1.8 million in amortization expense associated with these intangible assets in the year ended December 31, 2007. We may need additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or efforts to create a market for our VeriMed system. We expect to require funding in future years, in addition to the proceeds from our initial public offering, to create a market for our VeriMed system and any additional technologies or systems that we may license or develop. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution. In addition, our business and operations may change in a manner that would consume available resources at a greater rate than we anticipated. In such event, we may need to raise substantial additional capital. We may seek to raise necessary funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or strategic alliance and licensing arrangements. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our development programs, and our business, financial performance and stock price may be materially and adversely affected. To raise additional funds through strategic alliance or licensing arrangements, we may be required to relinquish rights to our technologies or systems, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. The markets for our infant protection and wander prevention systems in the United States and for our vibration monitoring instruments internationally are relatively mature markets of limited size, which may limit our ability to increase our sales of these systems. In the near term, we expect that our revenue will continue to be derived primarily from sales of our infant protection and wander prevention systems, and our vibration monitoring instruments. The markets for our infant protection are wander prevention systems—in the United States, where historically we have sold the substantial majority of our sales of these systems—and for our vibration monitoring instruments internationally can all be characterized as being of limited size and relatively mature. In the event we are not able to develop new markets, our future growth prospects will be modest. We cannot assure you that our historical revenue growth rates from these systems will continue. 29 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2007, we have sold and had installed a limited number of our asset/personnel location and identification systems. There are a number of factors beyond our control that may limit future sales of these systems. As of March 17, 2008, we have sold seven of our asset/personnel location and identification systems. These systems were sold through two dealers on a private label basis. While we believe that the potential for RFID real-time location systems, such as our asset/personnel location and identification system, to improve the quality and decrease the cost of healthcare is significant, the market for such systems in the healthcare sector is just emerging. The pace at which healthcare facilities have implemented RFID systems has been slower than many who follow the industry have anticipated. Market analysts have cited a number of factors that may be constraining the rate and extent of the U.S. healthcare industry’s adoption of RFID asset/personnel location and identification systems, including: • the cost of deployment, coupled with the limited budgets of many hospitals; • the uncertainty or unquantifiable nature of the return on investment; • system compatibility issues; • the low level of awareness; and • privacy concerns. We believe that our asset/personnel location and identification system will need to capture market share in this emerging market within the next 12-24 months, as we expect that a significant factor in hospitals’ choice of system vendors will be referrals to other healthcare facilities that have deployed, and are pleased with, such systems. To achieve this, we will need to be on the forefront of the effort to educate healthcare industry personnel regarding the benefits, including the return on investment, achievable through implementation of RFID location and identification systems. We may be unable to increase our sales of infant protection and wander prevention systems outside of North America. We currently sell substantially all of our infant protection and wander prevention systems in North America. Part of our growth strategy is to increase our penetration of markets outside of North America for these systems. Conducting business internationally entails numerous risks, which could disrupt or otherwise adversely affect our business, including: • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, taxes, trade laws, tariffs, import and export controls, customs duties and other trade restrictions or barriers; • more stringent regulations relating to data privacy and the unauthorized use of, or access to, commercial and personal information, particularly in Europe; • regulations, such as with respect to radio frequency bands, that require us to redesign our existing systems or develop new systems to comply; • restrictions on the transfer of funds; • changes in governmental policies and regulations; 30 Table of Contents • limitations on the level of intellectual property protections; and • political unrest, terrorism and war. If we are unable to expand our international distribution network in a timely and cost-effective manner, we could miss sales opportunities, which could constrain our growth. Sales of our vibration monitoring instruments will be adversely affected if the introduction of our new instrumentation platform for these instruments is delayed or if the new platform does not achieve market acceptance. If the introduction of our new vibration monitoring instrumentation platform is delayed or if the new platform does do not achieve market acceptance, sales of our vibration monitoring instruments, which currently represent the primary source of revenue in our industrial segment, will be adversely affected. The introduction of the new platform represents our primary strategy to grow our vibration monitoring business. If we fail to timely introduce the new platform or if the new platform does not achieve market acceptance, our ability to grow this business will be materially and adversely affected. Our competitors, including those who have greater resources and experience than we do, may commercialize technologies that make ours obsolete or noncompetitive. There are many public and private companies, universities, governmental agencies and research organizations actively engaged in research and development of RFID and other competing technologies with the same or similar functionality as our systems and that target the same markets that we target. Our active RFID systems, such as our infant protection, wander prevention and asset/personnel location and identification systems, utilize a zonal, also known as cell ID, system in which a network of readers are positioned to cover a defined area, including points of ingress or egress, to read tagged persons or objects within the defined area. There are a number of other technologies, such as UHF-based active RFID technologies, lower power Ultra Wide Band-based location technologies, 802.11 and Zigbee-based location and wireless networking technologies, and advanced, long range, encrypted passive RFID technology, that are being developed and sold that can be employed for our target applications. One or more of these technologies may prove to be a better or more cost-effective solution than our RFID systems for customers in our target markets and thus achieve greater market acceptance than the technologies used in our systems. If this were to occur, our ability to sell our systems, as well as our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects, would be adversely affected. Some of our current competitors, as well as companies who utilize RFID technologies in applications outside of our target markets, have significantly greater financial, marketing and product development resources than we do. Low barriers to entry across most of our product lines may result in new competitors entering the markets we serve. If a current or future competitor were to successfully develop or acquire rights to more effective or lower cost systems for applications targeted by our systems, then sales of our systems could suffer and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We rely upon third-party dealers to market and sell, as well as install, service and maintain, our infant protection, wander prevention and asset/personnel location and identification systems, and to market and sell our vibration monitoring instruments. As such, our revenue from sales of these products significantly depends on their efforts, as does the level of end-use customer satisfaction. We currently have a limited sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure. We market and sell our infant protection, wander prevention and asset/personnel location and identification systems, as well as vibration monitoring instruments, through third-party dealers. We currently derive substantially all of our revenue from these systems and instruments. In general, our dealer agreements impose no minimum purchase requirements. 31 Table of Contents By virtue of our reliance on dealers, our revenue significantly depends on the efforts of others. In addition, we are at risk that an end-use customer may have an unfavorable view of one of our systems based on a dealer’s improper installation, support or maintenance of that system. Our dealers of our infant protection, wander prevention and asset/personnel location and identification systems also have responsibility for the installation and after-sale servicing and maintenance of such systems. System installation requires relationships with cable companies, knowledge of the other products that need to be integrated with our hardware and knowledge of local codes. After-market customer service and maintenance is an important aspect of overall end-use customer satisfaction. We may be subject to costly product liability claims from the use of our systems, which could damage our reputation, impair the marketability of our systems and force us to pay costs and damages that may not be covered by adequate insurance. Manufacturing, marketing, selling, testing and operation of our systems entail a risk of product liability. We could be subject to product liability claims in the event our systems fail to perform as intended. Even unsuccessful claims against us could result in the expenditure of funds in litigation, the diversion of management time and resources, damage to our reputation and impairment in the marketability of our systems. While we maintain liability insurance, it is possible that a successful claim could be made against us, that the amount of our insurance coverage would not be adequate to cover the costs of defending against or paying such a claim, or that damages payable by us would harm our business. In addition, the receipt of insurance proceeds would not mitigate any damage to our reputation, which could harm future sales. If others assert that our products infringe their intellectual property rights, including rights to the patent covering our implantable microchip, we may be drawn into costly disputes and risk paying substantial damages or losing the right to sell our products. We face the risk of adverse claims and litigation alleging our infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. If infringement claims are brought against us or our suppliers, including, in the case of our implantable microchip, Digital Angel, these assertions could distract management and necessitate our expending potentially significant funds and resources to defend or settle such claims. We cannot be certain that we will have the financial resources to defend ourselves against any patent or other intellectual property litigation. If we or our suppliers are unsuccessful in any challenge to our rights to market and sell our products, we may, among other things, be required to: • pay actual damages, royalties, lost profits and/or increased damages and the third party’s attorneys’ fees, which may be substantial; • cease the development, manufacture, use and/or sale of products that use the intellectual property in question through a court-imposed sanction called an injunction; • expend significant resources to modify or redesign our products, manufacturing processes or other technology so that it does not infringe others’ intellectual property rights or to develop or acquire non-infringing technology, which may not be possible; or • obtain licenses to the disputed rights, which could require us to pay substantial upfront fees and future royalty payments and may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, or to cease marketing the challenged products. Ultimately, we could be prevented from selling a product or otherwise forced to cease some aspect of our business operations as a result of any intellectual property litigation. Even if we or our suppliers are successful in defending an infringement claim, the expense, time delay, and burden on management of litigation and negative publicity could have a material adverse effect on our business. See also “Item 1A. Risks Related to Our Businesses Which Utilize the Implantable Microchip—Our sales of systems that incorporate our implantable microchip may be enjoined by third parties who have rights to the intellectual property used in these systems and we may be required to pay damages which could have an adverse effect on our business.” 32 Table of Contents Our inability to safeguard our intellectual property may adversely affect our business by causing us to lose a competitive advantage or by forcing us to engage in costly and time-consuming litigation to defend or enforce our rights. We rely on copyrights, trademarks, trade secret protections, know-how and contractual safeguards to protect our non-patented intellectual property, including our software technologies. Our employees, consultants and advisors are required to enter into confidentiality agreements that prohibit the disclosure or use of our confidential information. We also have entered into confidentiality agreements to protect our confidential information delivered to third parties for research and other purposes. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively enforce these agreements, the confidential information will not be disclosed, others will not independently develop substantially equivalent confidential information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our confidential information, or that we can meaningfully protect our confidential information. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our confidential information, and failure to maintain the confidentiality of our confidential information could adversely affect our business by causing us to lose a competitive advantage maintained through such confidential information. Disputes may arise in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to any technology developed with third parties. These and other possible disagreements could lead to delays in the collaborative research, development or commercialization of our systems, or could require or result in costly and time-consuming litigation that may not be decided in our favor. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations by delaying our ability to commercialize innovations or by diverting our resources away from revenue-generating projects. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property may be less effective in some foreign countries where intellectual property rights are not as well protected as in the United States. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. Policing unauthorized use of the intellectual property utilized in our systems and system components is difficult, and there is a risk that our means of protecting our intellectual property may prove inadequate in these countries. Our competitors in these countries may independently develop similar technology or duplicate our systems, which would likely reduce our sales in these countries. Furthermore, some of our patent rights may be limited in enforceability to the United States or certain other select countries, which may limit our intellectual property rights abroad. We may not be successful in our efforts to obtain federal registration of our trademarks containing the “Veri” prefix with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. In June 2004, VeriSign, Inc. filed oppositions with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, objecting to our registration of the VeriChip trade name and our trademarks that begin with the “Veri” prefix. We and VeriSign are seeking to amicably resolve the opposition proceeding. Settlement negotiations are ongoing; however, the proceeding is currently active, and we served further discovery to VeriSign on January 3, 2008 to obtain information that will be relevant to any settlement. In the event an amicable resolution is not reached and VeriSign is successful in the opposition proceedings, our applications to register VeriChip and our other “Veri-” marks will be refused. It is also possible that VeriSign could bring a court action seeking to enjoin our use of VeriChip and the other “Veri-” marks and/or seek monetary damages from our use of these marks. If VeriSign were to bring a court action and prevail in that action, we may be required to re-name our Company and re-brand some of our products, such as VeriChip, VeriMed and VeriTrace, as well as to possibly pay damages to VeriSign for our use of any trademarks found to have been confusingly similar to those of VeriSign. 33 Table of Contents We depend on key personnel to manage our business effectively, and, if we are unable to hire, retain or motivate qualified personnel, our ability to design, develop, market and sell our systems could be harmed. Our future success depends, in part, on certain key employees, including Scott R. Silverman, our chief executive officer, and the chairman of our board of directors, and key technical and operations personnel, and on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel may seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineering, operations, finance, accounting, sales and marketing personnel, may also seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel will be a critical factor in determining whether we will be successful in the future. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs upon us. We must comply with local, state, federal, and international environmental laws and regulations in the countries in which we do business, including those governing the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes. If we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws, we could incur costs or fines, or be subject to third-party property damage or personal injury claims, or be required to incur investigation or remediation costs. Our operations and products will be affected by future environmental laws and regulations, but we cannot predict the ultimate impact of any such future laws and regulations at this time. Our distributors who place our products on the market in the European Union, or EU, are required to comply with EU Directive 2002/96/EC on waste electrical and electronic equipment, known as the WEEE Directive. Noncompliance by our distributors may adversely affect the success of our business in that market. Additionally, we are investigating the applicability of EU Directive 2002/95/EC on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment, known as the RoHS Directive. We do not expect the RoHS Directive will have a significant impact on our business. Risks Related to Our VeriMed Business Which Utilizes the Implantable Microchip We are endeavoring to create a market for our VeriMed system. We may never achieve market acceptance or significant sales of this system. We have been in the process of endeavoring to create a market for our VeriMed system since the FDA cleared the VeriMed system for use for patient identification and health information purposes in October 2004. Through December 31, 2007, we had generated nomial revenue from sales of the microchip inserter kits. We may never achieve market acceptance or more than nominal or modest sales of this system. We attribute the modest number of people who, through March 17, 2008, have undergone the microchip implant procedure to the following factors: • Many people who fit the profile for which the VeriMed system was designed may not be willing to have a microchip implanted in their upper right arm. • Physicians may be reluctant to discuss the implant procedure with their patients until a greater number of hospital emergency rooms have adopted the VeriMed system as part of their standard protocol. • Physicians may be reluctant to discuss the implant procedure with their patients because of the cost to their patients. • The media has from time to time reported, and may continue to report, on the VeriMed system in an unfavorable and, on occasion, an inaccurate manner. For example, there have been articles published asserting, despite at least one study to the contrary, that the implanted microchip is not magnetic resonance imaging, or MRI, compatible. There have also been articles published asserting, despite numerous studies to the contrary, that the implanted microchip causes malignant tumor formation in laboratory animals. 34 Table of Contents • Privacy concerns may influence individuals to refrain from undergoing the implant procedure or dissuade physicians from recommending the VeriMed system to their patients. Misperceptions that a microchip-implanted person can be “tracked” and that the microchip itself contains a person’s basic information, such as name, contact information, and personal health records, may contribute to such concerns. • Misperceptions and/or negative publicity may prompt legislative or administrative efforts by politicians or groups opposed to the development and use of human-implantable RFID microchips. In 2006 and 2007, a number of states introduced, and at least three states (Wisconsin, California and North Dakota) have enacted, legislation that would prohibit any requirement that an individual undergo a microchip-implant procedure. While we support all pending and enacted legislation that would preclude anything other than voluntary implantation, legislative bodies or government agencies may determine to go further, and their actions may have the effect, directly or indirectly, of delaying, limiting or preventing the use of human-implantable RFID microchips or the sale, manufacture or use of RFID systems utilizing such microchips. • At present, the cost of the microchip implant procedure is not covered by Medicare, Medicaid or private health insurance. • At present, no studies to assess the impact of the VeriMed system on the quality of emergency department care have been completed and publicly released. In light of these and perhaps other factors and if we are unable to successfully implement our marketing strategy, it is difficult to predict whether our VeriMed system will achieve market acceptance, how widespread that market acceptance will be, and the timing of such acceptance. Accordingly, we are uncertain as to whether we will generate the level of future revenue and revenue growth we have forecast from sales of the VeriMed system. We believe that sales of our implantable microchip, and the extent to which our VeriMed system achieves market acceptance, will depend, in part, on the availability of insurance reimbursement from third-party payers, including federal and state governments under programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and private insurance plans. Insurers may not determine to cover the cost of the implant procedure, or it may take a considerable period of time for this to occur. We believe that sales of our implantable microchip, and the extent to which our VeriMed system achieves market acceptance, will depend, in part, on the availability of insurance reimbursement from third-party payers, including federal and state government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, private health insurers, managed care organizations and other healthcare providers. Both governmental and private third-party payers are increasingly challenging the coverage and prices of medical products and services, and require proven efficacy and cost effectiveness for reimbursement. If patients undergoing the microchip implant procedure, or health institutions and doctors using the VeriMed system, are not able to obtain adequate reimbursement for the cost of using these products and services, they may forego or reduce their use. While we are in the process of facilitating and, in one case, funding clinical studies that may demonstrate the efficacy of the VeriMed system, which we believe will make it more likely that government and private insurers will cover the cost of the microchip implant process, it may take a considerable period of time for this to occur, if, in fact, it does occur. If government and private insurers do not determine to reimburse the cost of the implant process, we would not expect to realize the anticipated level of future sales of our implantable microchip and the database subscription fees. Our sales of systems that incorporate our implantable microchip may be enjoined by third parties who have rights to the intellectual property used in these systems and we may be required to pay damages which would have an adverse effect on our business. We may face a claim that we are violating the intellectual property rights of one or more third parties with respect to U.S. Patent No. 5,211,129, “Syringe-Implantable Identification Transponders.” If such a claim is successful, we could be required to cease engaging in activities to market our systems that utilize the implantable microchip and to pay damages, which may be substantial. 35 Table of Contents We obtain the implantable microchip used in our VeriMed and VeriTrace systems from a wholly-owned subsidiary of Digital Angel, under the terms of a supply agreement. Digital Angel, in turn, obtains the implantable microchip from a subsidiary of Raytheon Company under a separate supply agreement. The technology underlying our VeriMed and VeriTrace systems is covered, in part, by U.S. Patent No. 5,211,129. In 1994, Destron/IDI, Inc., a predecessor company to Digital Angel Corporation, granted a co-exclusive license under this patent, other than for certain specified fields of use retained by the predecessor company, to Hughes Aircraft Company, or Hughes, and its then wholly-owned subsidiary, Hughes Identification Devices, Inc., or HID. The specified fields of use retained by the predecessor company do not include human identification and security applications. The rights licensed in 1994 to Hughes and HID were freely assignable, and we do not know which party or parties currently have these rights or whether these rights have been assigned, transferred or conveyed to any third party. We source the implantable microchip indirectly from a subsidiary of Raytheon Company, with which Hughes, then known as HE Holdings, Inc. was merged in 1997. However, we have no documentation that establishes our right to use the patented technology for human identification and security applications. Hughes, HID, any of their respective successors in interest, or any party to whom any of the foregoing parties may have assigned its rights under the 1994 license agreement may commence a claim against us asserting that we are violating its rights. In October 2007, Digital Angel and the successor to HID executed a cross-license which includes Digital Angel obtaining a royalty free non-exclusive license to HID’s rights to the implantable human applications of the ‘129 patent, for which it purports certain ownership rights to. Digital Angel has, in turn, sublicensed those rights to us. If such a claim is successful, sales of our VeriMed and VeriTrace systems could be enjoined, and we could be required to cease our efforts to create a market for these systems, until the patent expires in April 2008. In addition, we could be required to pay damages, which may be substantial. Regardless of whether any claimant is successful, we would face the prospect of the expenditure of funds in litigation, the diversion of management time and resources, damage to our reputation and the potential impairment in the marketability of our systems even after the expiration of the patent, which could harm our business and negatively affect our prospects. Even if our VeriMed system achieves some level of market acceptance, the anticipated significant and growing recurrent revenue from microchip-implanted persons’ subscribing to our database may not be realized. Our business model envisages that our VeriMed system will achieve some level of penetration within our target market for such system: the approximately 45 million at-risk people in the United States with cognitive impairment, chronic diseases and related conditions, or implanted medical devices. The model also anticipates our deriving significant and growing recurrent revenue from subscriptions to our database by persons implanted with our microchip. However, a person implanted with our microchip may decide not to subscribe to our database if, for example, the hospital emergency room where he or she would most likely be taken in an emergency maintains its own database. We do not currently anticipate that a significant percentage of VeriMed-adopting hospitals and other healthcare facilities will choose to provide databases for this purpose. However, future regulatory changes, such as in connection with the U.S. government’s efforts to address inefficiencies in the U.S. healthcare system related to information technology, could spur hospitals and other healthcare facilities to establish systems to maintain electronic health records. This might have the effect of reducing the number of people implanted with our microchip who might otherwise subscribe to our database which could, in turn, negatively affect the future revenue that we anticipate we will derive from the VeriMed system. Currently, individuals implanted with our microchip take responsibility for inputting all of their information into our database, including personal health records, as physicians currently have little interest in being involved in this process – primarily because of liability concerns and because they are generally not paid for this service. Over time, we envision that persons implanted with our microchip may prevail upon their physicians to assist them with the inputting of information for which, by virtue of their medical training, physicians are better equipped to handle. If this does not occur, emergency room personnel and emergency medical technicians may lack confidence in the accuracy and completeness of implanted persons’ personal health records in the database. This could negatively affect the revenue we anticipate we will derive in the future from the VeriMed system. We obtain the implantable microchip used in our VeriMed and VeriTrace systems from a single supplier, making us vulnerable to supply disruptions that could constrain our sales of such systems and/or increase our per-unit cost of production of the microchip. 36 Table of Contents At present, Digital Angel is our sole supplier of our implantable microchip under the terms of an agreement we entered into with Digital Angel in December 2005. Digital Angel, in turn, sources the microchip from Raytheon Microelectronics España, or RME, the actual manufacturer, under a supply agreement between Digital Angel and RME. The term of that agreement expires on June 30, 2010, subject to earlier termination by either party if, among other things, the other party breaches the agreement and does not remedy the breach within 30 days of receiving notice. Digital Angel and RME each own certain of the automated equipment and tooling used in the manufacture of the microchip. Accordingly, it would be difficult for Digital Angel to arrange for a third party other than RME to manufacture the implantable microchip if for any reason RME was unable to manufacture the implantable microchip or RME did not manufacture sufficient implantable microchips for Digital Angel to satisfy our requirements. Even if Digital Angel were able to arrange to have the implantable microchip manufactured in another facility, we currently believe making such arrangements and commencement of production could take at least three to six months. A supply disruption of this length could cause customers to cancel orders, negatively affect future sales and damage our business reputation. In addition, the per-unit cost of production at another facility could be more than the price per unit we pay to Digital Angel. If we do not meet the minimum purchase requirements under our agreement with Digital Angel, Digital Angel may sell implantable microchips for secure human identification applications to third parties. Our loss of this exclusive supply arrangement may result in our facing competition with respect to our implantable microchip-based systems, which could have a material adverse effect on the expected growth of our business. Our agreement with Digital Angel, under which we source our implantable microchip, includes a provision that Digital Angel may not sell to parties other than us and our resellers the implantable microchips, as well as the reader equipment, for secure human identification applications, provided we meet specified minimum purchase requirements. If we do not meet the minimum purchase requirements, Digital Angel is free to sell to other parties implantable microchips for secure human identification applications. The minimum purchase requirements for implantable microchips under the agreement are as follows: Minimum Purchase Year Requirement 2007 $ 0 2008 $ 875,000 2009 $ 1,750,000 2010 $ 2,500,000 2011 and thereafter $ 3,750,000 For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the aggregate amount of our purchases under our agreement with Digital Angel were nil, $0.4 million and $0.7 million, respectively. If we lose the benefit of the exclusivity provision under our agreement with Digital Angel, we may face competition in the various target markets for our systems that use our implantable microchip, such as VeriMed and VeriTrace, or face such competition at an earlier point in time than might otherwise have been the case, which could negatively affect our revenue, cash flows from operations, operating margins and profitability, as well as our growth prospects. If Digital Angel were to terminate its agreement with us, we would not be able to obtain our implantable microchip. This would make it difficult to fulfill our expectations for future revenue and revenue growth from the sale of systems that use the implantable microchip. Provided we meet our minimum purchase requirements, our agreement with Digital Angel is scheduled to remain in force until the last of the patents covering the supplied products expire. However, Digital Angel can terminate the agreement upon the occurrence of any of the following events: • our default in the performance of any of our obligations under the agreement (e.g., our failure to take delivery and pay for products) that is not cured within 90 days of receiving written notice of the default; 37 Table of Contents • either party to the agreement filing a petition in bankruptcy; or • a petition in bankruptcy is filed against us and is not discharged within 30 days. If the agreement were to be terminated, we would not be able to purchase our implantable microchip from Digital Angel. Further, if the termination occurred while the patents covering our implantable microchip remain in force, we could not obtain implantable microchips for secure human identification applications from any other source. As a result, we would not be able to sell our VeriMed system or any other products that incorporate our implantable microchip, such as our VeriTrace system. This would make it difficult for us to fulfill our expectations of future revenue and revenue growth from sales of such systems. Implantation of our implantable microchip may be found to cause risks to a person’s health, which could adversely affect sales of our systems which incorporate the implantable microchip. The implantation of our implantable microchip may be found, or be perceived, to cause risks to a person’s health. Potential or perceived risks include adverse tissue reactions, migration of the microchip and infection from implantation. There have been articles published asserting, despite numerous studies to the contrary, that the implanted microchip causes malignant tumor formation in laboratory animals. As more people are implanted with our implantable microchip, it is possible that these and other risks to health will manifest themselves. Actual or perceived risks to a person’s health associated with the microchip implantation process could constrain our sales of the VeriMed system or result in costly and expensive litigation. Further, the potential resultant negative publicity could damage our business reputation, leading to loss in sales of our other systems targeted at the healthcare market which would harm our business and negatively affect our prospects. If we are required to effect a recall of our implantable microchip, our reputation could be materially and adversely affected and the cost of any such recall could be substantial, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. From time to time, implanted devices have become subject to recall due to safety, efficacy, product failures or other concerns. To date, we have not had to recall any of our implantable microchips. However, if, in the future, we are required to effect such a recall, the cost of the recall, and the likely related loss of system sales, could be substantial and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, any such recall could materially adversely affect our reputation and our ability to sell our systems that make use of the implantable microchip which would harm our business and negatively affect our prospects. Interruptions in access to, or the hacking into, our VeriMed patient information database may have a negative impact on our revenue, damage our reputation and expose us to litigation. Reliable access to the VeriMed patient information database is a key component of the functionality of our VeriMed system. Our ability to provide uninterrupted access to the database, whether operated by us or one or more third parties with whom we contract, will depend on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of the computer and communications systems involved. Although certain elements of technological, power, communications, personnel and site redundancy are maintained, the database may not be fully redundant. Further, the database may not function properly if certain necessary third-party systems fail, or if some other unforeseen act or natural disaster should occur. In the past, we have experienced short periods during which the database was inaccessible as a result of development work, system maintenance and power outages. Any disruption of the database services, computer systems or communications networks, or those of third parties that we rely on, could result in the inability of users to access the database for an indeterminate period of time. This, in turn, could cause us to lose the confidence of the healthcare community and persons who have undergone the microchip implant procedure, resulting in a loss of revenue and possible litigation. In addition, if the firewall software protecting the information contained in our database fails or someone is successful in hacking into the database, we could face damage to our business reputation and litigation. 38 Table of Contents Regulation of products and services that collect personally-identifiable information or otherwise monitor an individual’s activities may make the provision of our services more difficult or expensive and could jeopardize our growth prospects. Certain technologies that we currently, or may in the future, support are capable of collecting personally-identifiable information. A growing body of laws designed to protect the privacy of personally- identifiable information, as well as to protect against its misuse, and the judicial interpretations of such laws, may adversely affect the growth of our business. In the United States, these laws include the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, or HIPAA, the Federal Trade Commission Act, the Electronic Communications Privacy Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, as well as various state laws and related regulations. Although we are not a covered entity under HIPAA, we have entered into agreements with certain covered entities in which we are considered to be a “business associate” under HIPAA. As a business associate, we are required to implement policies, procedures and reasonable and appropriate security measures to protect individually identifiable health information we receive from covered entities. Our failure to protect health information received from customers could subject us to liability and adverse publicity, and could harm our business and impair our ability to attract new customers. In addition, certain governmental agencies, like the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and the Federal Trade Commission, have the authority to protect against the misuse of consumer information by targeting companies that collect, disseminate or maintain personal information in an unfair or deceptive manner. We are also subject to the laws of those foreign jurisdictions in which we operate, some of which currently have more protective privacy laws. If we fail to comply with applicable regulations in this area, our business and prospects could be harmed. Certain regulatory approvals generally must be obtained from the governments of the countries in which our foreign distributors sell our systems. However, any such approval may be subject to significant delays or may not be obtained. Any actions by regulatory agencies could materially and adversely affect our growth plans and the success of our business. If we fail to comply with anti-kickback and false claims laws, we could be subject to costly and time-consuming litigation and possible fines or other penalties. We are, or may become subject to, various federal and state laws designed to address healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. The federal anti-kickback statute prohibits the offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for referring items or services payable by Medicare, Medicaid or any other federally-funded healthcare program. This statute also prohibits remuneration in return for purchasing, leasing or ordering or arranging, or recommending the purchasing, leasing or ordering, of items or services payable by Medicare, Medicaid or any other federally-funded healthcare program. The anti-kickback laws of various states apply more broadly to prohibit remuneration in return for referrals of business payable by payers other than federal healthcare programs. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, for payment to third-party payers, including Medicare and Medicaid, which currently do not provide reimbursement for our microchip implant procedure, claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed, or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Our activities relating to the reporting of wholesale or estimated retail prices of our VeriMed system, the reporting of Medicaid rebate information, and other information affecting federal, state and third-party payment for the VeriMed system, will be subject to scrutiny under these laws. The anti-kickback statute and other fraud and abuse laws are very broad in scope, and many of their provisions have not been uniformly or definitively interpreted by existing case law or regulations. Violations of the anti-kickback statute and other fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from federal healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, which currently do not provide reimbursement for our microchip implant procedure. We have not been challenged by a governmental authority under any of these laws and believe that our operations are in compliance with such laws. However, because of the far-reaching nature of these laws, we may be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. Healthcare fraud and abuse regulations are complex and even minor, inadvertent irregularities in submissions can potentially give rise to claims that the statute has been violated. If we are found to have violated these laws, or are charged with violating them, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer, and our management team could be required to dedicate significant time addressing the actual or alleged violations. 39 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Continued Affiliation with Digital Angel Digital Angel maintains significant voting control over us. This may delay, prevent or deter corporate actions that may be in the best interest of our stockholders. As of December 31, 2007, Digital Angel owned 50.8% of our outstanding common stock and 44.1% of our common stock on a fully-diluted basis. As of March 17, 2008, Digital Angel owned 49.3% of our common stock. As a result, Digital Angel may exercise significant influence over all matters requiring approval of our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of our Company even when such a change may be in the best interests of all our stockholders. It could also have the effect of depriving stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our Company or assets and might affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. Conflicts of interest may arise among Digital Angel and us that could be resolved in a manner unfavorable to us. Questions relating to conflicts of interest may arise between Digital Angel and us, in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships. During 2007, three of our five directors served as directors of Digital Angel. This included Scott R. Silverman, our chief executive officer and the chairman of our board of directors, who served as the chairman of the board of a subsidiary of Digital Angel until December 2007. Areas in which conflicts of interest between or among Digital Angel and us could arise include, but are not limited to, the following: Cross directorships and stock ownership. The equity interests of our directors in Digital Angel or service as a director of both Digital Angel and us in the past could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest when directors are faced with decisions that could have different implications for the two companies. For example, these decisions could relate to, among other matters: • the nature, quality and cost of services rendered to us by Digital Angel; • the desirability of a potential acquisition or joint venture opportunity; • employee retention or recruiting; or • our dividend policy. Intercompany transactions. From time to time, Digital Angel or its affiliates, may enter into transactions with us or our subsidiary or other affiliates. Although the terms of any such transactions will be established based upon negotiations between employees of Digital Angel and/or the applicable affiliate and us and, when appropriate, subject to the approval of the independent directors on our board or a committee of disinterested directors, there can be no assurance that the terms of any such transactions will be as favorable to us or our subsidiary or affiliates as may otherwise be obtained in arm’s-length negotiations with an unaffiliated third party. Intercompany agreements. We have entered several agreements with Digital Angel, including: • a transition services agreement under which Digital Angel provides us certain management, administrative, accounting, tax, legal and other services; 40 Table of Contents • a tax allocation agreement setting forth Digital Angel’s and our rights and obligations with respect to the handling and allocation of taxes and related matters for all periods prior to the consummation of our initial public offering, which occurred on February 14, 2007; • a loan agreement; and • letter agreements amending financing terms entered into with Digital Angel. The terms of these agreements were established while we have been controlled by Digital Angel and were not the result of arm’s-length negotiations. In addition, conflicts could arise in the interpretation, or in connection with any extension or renegotiation, of these existing agreements. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We expect that our stock price will fluctuate significantly due to events and developments unique to our business or the healthcare industry generally. The stock market has from time to time experienced significant volatility. Factors that could cause volatility in the market price of our common stock include: • false and/or defamatory comments made about our product made in the press; • failure of any of our products, particularly our asset/personnel location and identification system and our VeriMed system, to achieve commercial success; • FDA or international regulatory actions; • announcements of new products by our competitors; • market conditions in the healthcare sector; • litigation or public concern about the efficacy or safety of existing, new or potential products or technologies; • comments by securities analysts; and • rumors relating to us or our competitors. These and other factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of our common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. In addition, in the past, when the market price of a company’s common stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit and the time and attention of our management may be diverted. Since our common stock began trading on the Nasdaq Global Market on February 9, 2007 through March 17, 2008, the price has ranged between $1.76 and $10.62. Provisions of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our amended and restated bylaws could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and could make it more difficult for you to change management. Provisions of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. 41 Table of Contents This is because these provisions may prevent or frustrate attempts by stockholders to replace or remove our current management or members of our board of directors. These provisions, among other things: • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which might otherwise allow holders of less than a majority of our outstanding shares of voting stock to elect one or more director candidates; • permit our board of directors to issue, without further action by our stockholders, up to 5,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock, with any rights, preferences and privileges as they may designate (including the right to approve an acquisition or other change in control); • establish advance notice procedures with respect to stockholder proposals and the nomination of candidates for election as directors, other than nominations made by or at the direction of our board of directors; • prohibit stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; and • provide that members of our board of directors may only be removed for cause by the affirmative vote of holders of at least a majority of the voting power of all then outstanding shares of capital stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class. As a result, these provisions and others available under Delaware’s General Corporation Law could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We will need to dedicate significant time and expense to enhancing, documenting, testing and certifying our internal control over financial reporting. As a publicly-traded company, we are required to file annual and quarterly reports containing our financial statements within specified time periods. SEC rules will require that our chief executive officer and chief financial officer periodically provide certifications as to, among other things, the existence and effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In general, this process requires significant documentation of policies, procedures and controls, review of that documentation by our internal accounting staff, and testing of our internal controls by our internal accounting staff and our outside independent registered public accounting firm. Documentation and testing of our internal controls will involve considerable time and expense and may strain our internal resources. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place to help ensure that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated on a periodic basis. This Annual Report on Form 10-K does not include an attestation report of our registered public accounting firm due to a transition period established by rules of the SEC for newly public companies. Our independent registered public accounting firm will not be engaged to attest to management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting until our annual report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2008. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which could adversely affect our operating results, our ability to operate our business and our stock price. During the course of our testing of our internal controls, we may identify, and have to disclose, material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls that will have to be remediated. Implementing any appropriate changes to our internal controls may require specific compliance training of our directors, officers and employees, entail substantial costs in order to modify our existing accounting systems, and take a significant period of time to complete. Such changes may not, however, be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal controls, and any failure to maintain that adequacy, or consequent inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase our operating costs and could materially impair our ability to operate our business. In addition, investors’ perceptions that our internal controls are inadequate or that we are unable to produce accurate financial statements may negatively affect our stock price. 42 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 