Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Businesses Which Utilize the Implantable Microchip.” Our sales and marketing strategy for our Health Link system is to contemporaneously market our system to hospitals, hospital networks, third-party emergency department management companies and nursing homes, as well as to physicians who treat at-risk patients: persons with diabetes, cancer, coronary heart disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, cerebrovascular disease (stroke), congestive heart failure, Alzheimer’s, epilepsy and other diseases or conditions, including persons with implanted medical devices. This approach is intended to accelerate the adoption of the Health Link system by healthcare facilities, as well as by physicians and patients. In the initial phase of our efforts to create a market for the Health Link system, we have focused on getting hospitals and third-party emergency room management companies to adopt the Health Link system protocol in their emergency rooms. This focus reflects our recognition that physicians who treat patients within our target market may be disinclined to discuss with their patients, and patients may not be persuaded by, the benefits of the Health Link system in the absence of some or all of the hospital emergency rooms in their immediate geographic area having become part of our network. To build out our network, we have been providing our scanners, at no charge, to hospitals and third-party emergency room companies. As of December 31, 2008, more than 200 hospitals and other medical facilities have adopted our Health Link system protocol in their emergency rooms. The facilities that have adopted the Health Link protocol have received training in the use of our system and, as part of the standard protocol, are scanning patients who arrive in their emergency rooms unconscious, confused or unable to communicate. We expect to continue this “seeding” process for the foreseeable future, as we endeavor to build out the network across the United States and overseas. Physicians whose patients fit within our target market are the focus of the second phase of our commercialization efforts. At present, our sales and marketing strategy for physicians who treat patients who fit the profile for which our Health Link system is intended to benefit includes using our sales force to directly market to and educate such physicians in those geographic regions surrounding hospitals that have adopted the Health Link system as part of their standard protocol. We are distributing marketing materials, such as brochures and posters, intended to be displayed in physicians’ offices. Our focus on physicians reflects our belief that, as with all medical treatments and procedures, it is the physician who is responsible for discussing and recommending a particular course of action, knowing the particular circumstances of the individual patient. As of February 4, 2009, 616 people have received our VeriMed microchip and have enrolled in the VeriMed patient registry, of which 40 are paying subscribers. We attribute the modest number of people who have undergone the microchip implant procedure to a number of factors: • A lack of direct to consumer advertising to educate the patient population to the benefits of the Health Link system. • Many people who fit the profile for which the Health Link system was designed may not be willing to have a microchip implanted in their upper right arms. • Physicians may be reluctant to discuss the implant procedure with their patients until a greater number of hospital emergency rooms have adopted the Health Link system as part of their standard protocol. • The media has from time to time reported, and may continue to report, on the Health Link system in an unfavorable and, on occasion, an inaccurate manner. For example, there have been articles published asserting, despite at least one study to the contrary, that the implanted microchip is not MRI compatible. There have also been articles published asserting, despite numerous studies to the contrary, that the implanted microchip causes malignant tumor formation in animals. 8 Table of Contents • Privacy concerns may influence individuals to refrain from undergoing the implant procedure or dissuade physicians from recommending the Health Link system to their patients. Misperceptions that a microchip-implanted person can be “tracked” and that the microchip itself contains a person’s basic information and personal health records may contribute to such concerns. • Misperceptions and/or negative publicity may prompt legislative or administrative efforts by politicians or groups opposed to the development and use of human-implantable RFID microchips. In that regard, in 2007 and 2008, a number of states have introduced, and at least three states have enacted, legislation that would prohibit any requirement that an individual undergo a microchip-implant procedure. While we support all pending and enacted legislation that would preclude anything other than voluntary implantation, legislative bodies or government agencies may determine to go further, and their actions may have the effect, directly or indirectly, of delaying, limiting or preventing the use of human-implantable RFID microchips or the sale, manufacture or use of RFID systems utilizing such microchips. • The cost of the microchip implant procedure is not covered by Medicare, Medicaid or private health insurance. • No studies to assess the impact of the Health Link system on the quality of emergency department care have been completed and publicly released. With respect to the last two factors listed above, we are in the process of facilitating and, in one case, providing product and de minimus funding clinical studies that we believe may demonstrate the efficacy of the Health Link system. We believe that once this is established, government and private insurers may be more likely to cover the cost of the microchip implant process. In any event, these studies are likely to be of considerable interest to physicians who treat at-risk patients. In June 2006, we began a study with Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield of New Jersey, the largest health insurer in the State of New Jersey (Horizon BCBSNJ), the Hackensack University Medical Center Independent Physicians Association (IPA) and the Hackensack University Medical Center, under which Hackensack University Medical Center and its physicians have the right to test the Health Link system over a period of approximately two years. Together with BCBSNJ, we have enrolled in the study 30 members of Horizon BCBSNJ who were treated for an episode of care by a Hackensack IPA physician between January 1, 2004 and December 31, 2006. Each participant in the program was to be tested for a period of two years after receiving the microchip implant. The objective of this clinical study was to assess the impact of the Health Link system on emergency department care provided to patients with specified chronic medical conditions. This included an assessment of: the insertion technique; patient data selection and input; staff acceptance and use of the technology; frequency of database access; the time involved for information gathering with current methods compared to the Health Link System; the impact of the Health Link system on clinical presentation and treatment; and the functionality of the Health Link system in an application environment. The Institutional Review Board approved a clinical study to be performed by the American Medical Directors Association (AMDA) to assess the efficacy of the Health Link system in improving patient outcomes and improving access to patient medical information while patients are in route to emergency rooms from long-term care facilities, both skilled nursing facilities and assisted living facilities. The proposed study would involve 10 facilities, either skilled nursing facilities or assisted living facilities, with an estimated study population of 100 people. The inclusion criteria for the study participants would include being age 65 or above and having two or more of the following conditions: dementia, stroke, diabetes, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, congestive heart failure, coronary heart disease and epilepsy. No patient or third party will be billed for use of the Health Link system during the study. 9 Table of Contents In early 2007, we entered into a partnership with Alzheimer’s Community Care, or ACC, of West Palm Beach, Florida, in which VeriChip and ACC will conduct a study of the effectiveness of the VeriMed Health Link System in managing the records of Alzheimer’s patients and their caregivers. In the two-year, 200 patient study, participating individuals suffering from Alzheimer’s disease and other forms of dementia, as well as their caregivers, would receive the VeriMed implantable microchip to provide emergency department staff easy access to those patients’ identification and medical information. Alzheimer’s disease is one of several medical conditions we identify as being ideally suited for the benefits of the Health Link system since individuals with the disease or other forms of dementia are often unable to give necessary identifying information or critical medical history upon being admitted to a hospital. ACC also believes it is important for caregivers to obtain the implantable Health Link. If a caregiver becomes ill, the Health Link database will inform medical personnel that he or she is the caregiver for someone unable to care for themselves. All participants in the study will be voluntary. The legally designated responsible party of an Alzheimer’s patient unable to make medical decisions must give permission for the patient to participate. As of December 31, 2008, more than 100 patients and caregivers have received the Health Link microchip as part of this study. We believe that if the results of these and other clinical studies that may be undertaken are sufficiently compelling, the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services may determine that the Health Link microchip implant procedure is reimbursable under Medicare and Medicaid. If this were to occur, we believe many private insurers would follow suit. We can provide no assurance as to if and when government or private insurers will decide to take such action. It may take a considerable period of time for this to occur, if, in fact, it does occur. If government and private insurers do not determine to reimburse the cost of the implant procedure, we would not expect to realize the currently anticipated level of sales of our implantable microchip and the database subscription fees. Other Applications We have also developed another system that utilizes the implantable microchip, our VeriTrace system. Our VeriTrace system was conceived of in the wake of Hurricane Katrina, when we donated implantable microchips to FEMA’s Department of Mortuary Services in Mississippi and Louisiana to help with FEMA’s efforts to identify corpses. Our implantable microchips were used to provide an end-to-end tagging solution for the accurate tracking and identification of human remains and associated evidentiary items. We began marketing of our VeriTrace system in 2006. Sales, Marketing and Distribution Our end-use customers have consisted of healthcare facilities, such as hospitals and long-term care facilities, healthcare professionals, such as physicians and individual patients. We have historically marketed our systems primarily by attending trade shows and medical conferences and by advertising in publications. Until June 2007, our marketing efforts with respect to our Health Link system had been to provide our scanners to hospitals and third-party emergency room management companies at no charge in order to build out the geographic footprint of the healthcare facilities that were able to use our Health Link system as part of their standard protocol. We expected to continue this “seeding” process for the foreseeable future as we endeavored to build out our network across the United States and overseas. In addition, we marketed our Health Link system to physicians, who treated patients who fit the profile for which our Health Link system was intended to benefit, in those geographic areas surrounding hospitals that have adopted the Health Link system. With respect to our Health Link system, we do not believe any other company currently offers a human implantable microchip-based patient identification system. Various alternative patient identification solutions are currently available, such as bracelets sold by MedicAlert, health information wallet cards, biometric systems and key fobs that store personal health records. We are currently focused on the options for the Company, including the possible development of the glucose sensing microchip and are considering and will review other strategic opportunities. 10 Table of Contents Manufacturing; Supply Arrangements We have historically outsourced the manufacturing of all the hardware components of our active RFID systems to third-party contractors, but conduct final assembly, testing and quality control functions internally. As of February 4, 2009, we have not had material difficulties obtaining system components. We believe that if any of our manufacturers or suppliers were to cease supplying us with system components, we would be able to procure alternative sources without material disruption to our business. Digital Angel was our sole supplier of the implantable microchips, which it obtained from Raytheon Microelectronics España, a subsidiary of Raytheon Company, or RME, under the terms of a separate supply agreement which was terminated on November 12, 2008. Environmental Regulation We must comply with local, state, federal, and international environmental laws and regulations in the countries in which we do business, including laws and regulations governing the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes. We expect our operations and products will be affected by future environmental laws and regulations, but we cannot predict the effects of any such future laws and regulations at this time. Our distributors who place our products on the market in the European Union are required to comply with EU Directive 2002/96/EC on waste electrical and electronic equipment, known as the WEEE Directive. Noncompliance by our distributors with EU Directive 2002/96/EC may adversely affect the success of our business in that market. Additionally, we are investigating the applicability of EU Directive 2002/95/EC on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment, known as the RoHS Directive which took effect on July 1, 2006. We do not expect the RoHS Directive will have a significant impact on our business. Government Regulation Laws and Regulations Pertaining to RFID Technologies Our active RFID systems, as well as our RFID systems that use our implantable microchip, rely on low-power, localized use of radio frequency spectrum to operate. As a result, we must comply with U.S. Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, and Industry Canada regulations, as well as the laws and regulations of other jurisdictions where we sell our products, governing the design, testing, marketing, operation and sale of RFID devices. Accordingly, all of our products and systems have a paired FCC and Industry Canada equipment authorization. U.S. Federal Communications Commission Regulations Under FCC regulations and Section 302 of the Communications Act, RFID devices, including those we market and sell, must be authorized and comply with all applicable technical standards and labeling requirements prior to being marketed in the United States. The FCC’s rules prescribe technical, operational and design requirements for devices that operate on the electromagnetic spectrum at very low powers. The rules ensure that such devices do not cause interference to licensed spectrum services, mislead consumers regarding their operational capabilities or produce emissions that are harmful to human health. Our RFID devices are intentional radiators, as defined in the FCC’s rules. As such, our devices may not cause harmful interference to licensed services and must accept any interference received. We must construct all equipment in accordance with good engineering design as well as manufacturers’ practices. 11 Table of Contents Manufacturers of RFID devices must submit testing results and/or other technical information demonstrating compliance with the FCC’s rules in the form of an application for equipment authorization. The FCC processes each application when it is in a form acceptable for filing and, upon grant, issues an equipment identification number. Each of our RFID devices must bear a label which displays the equipment authorization number, as well as specific language set forth in the FCC’s rules. In addition, each device must include a user manual cautioning users that changes or modifications not expressly approved by the manufacturer could void the equipment authorization. As a condition of each FCC equipment authorization, we warrant that each of our devices marked under the grant and bearing the grant identifier will conform to all the technical and operational measurements submitted with the application. RFID devices used and/or sold in interstate commerce must meet these requirements or the equipment authorization may be revoked, the devices may be seized and a forfeiture may be assessed against the equipment authorization grantee. The FCC requires all holders of equipment authorizations to maintain a copy of each authorization together with all supporting documentation and make these records available for FCC inspection upon request. The FCC may also conduct periodic sampling tests of equipment to ensure compliance. We believe we are in substantial compliance with all FCC requirements applicable to our products and systems. Regulation by the FDA Our VeriMed microchip is a medical device subject to regulation by the FDA, as well as other federal and state regulatory bodies in the United States and comparable authorities in other countries. In October 2004, the Health Link system received classification as a Class II medical device by the FDA for patient identification and health information purposes. The FDA also permits us to market and sell the Health Link system in the United States. FDA Premarket Clearance and Approval Requirements. Generally speaking, unless an exemption applies, each medical device we wish to distribute commercially in the United States will require either prior clearance under Section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FFDCA, or a premarket approval application, or PMA, from the FDA. Medical devices are classified into one of three classes — Class I, Class II or Class III — depending on the degree of risk to the patient associated with the medical device and the extent of control needed to ensure safety and effectiveness. Devices deemed to pose lower risks are placed in either Class I or II. The manufacturer of a Class II device is typically required to submit to the FDA a premarket notification requesting permission to commercially distribute the device and demonstrating that the proposed device is substantially equivalent to a previously cleared and legally marketed 510(k) device or a device that was in commercial distribution before May 28, 1976 for which the FDA has not yet called for the submission of a PMA. This process is known as 510(k) clearance. Devices deemed by the FDA to pose the greatest risk, such as life-sustaining, life-supporting implantable devices, or devices deemed not substantially equivalent to a previously cleared 510(k) device, are generally placed in Class III, requiring premarket approval. In October 2004, we received classification of our VeriMed system as a Class II device. In granting this classification, the FDA created a new device category for “implantable radiofrequency transponder systems for patient identification and health information.” The FDA also determined that devices that meet this description will be exempt from 510(k) premarket clearance so long as they comply with the FFDCA, its implementing regulations and the provisions of an FDA guidance document issued by the FDA in December 2004, entitled “ Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff, Class II Special Controls Guidance Document: Implantable Radiofrequency Transponder System for Patient Identification and Health Information,” that establishes special controls for this type of device. The special controls, which are intended to ensure that the device is safe and effective for its intended use, include the following: biocompatibility testing, information security procedures, performance standard verification, software validation, electro-magnetic compatibility and sterility testing. We believe that we are in compliance with FFDCA, its implementing regulations and the December 2004 guidance document. Similarly, a company that wishes to market products that will compete with the VeriMed system will not be required to submit a 510(k) premarket clearance application to the FDA if they comply with the requirements of the special controls guidance document as well as a full spectrum of FDA regulations, described more fully below. In January, 2007, the FDA published a Draft Guidance entitled “ Radio-Frequency Wireless Technology in Medical Devices.” This document includes the FDA’s current recommendations regarding specific risks and limitations to be considered when developing and implementing a Quality System for medical devices using radio frequency wireless technology, as well as additional information to be included in the labeling for such devices. We believe our Quality System and labeling for our VeriMed System meet the recommendations outlined in the draft guidance. 12 Table of Contents Pervasive and Continuing Regulation. After a medical device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements continue to apply. These include: • quality system regulations, or QSR, which require manufacturers, including third-party manufacturers, to follow stringent design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during all aspects of the manufacturing process; • labeling regulations and FDA prohibitions against the promotion of regulated products for uncleared, unapproved or off-label uses; • clearance or approval of product modifications that could significantly affect safety or effectiveness or that would constitute a major change in intended use; • medical device reporting, or MDR, regulations, which require that a manufacturer report to the FDA if the manufacturer’s device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur; and • post-market surveillance regulations, which apply when necessary to protect the public health or to provide additional safety and effectiveness data for the device. Fraud and Abuse We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and Veterans Affairs health programs. We have never been challenged by a government authority under any of these laws and believe that our operations are in material compliance with such laws. However, because of the far-reaching nature of these laws, there can be no assurance that we would not be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. In addition, there can be no assurance that the occurrence of one or more violations of these laws would not result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Anti-Kickback Laws We may directly or indirectly be subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws. In particular, the federal healthcare program Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing, arranging for or recommending a good or service, for which payment may be made in whole or part under federal healthcare programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Penalties for violations include criminal penalties and civil sanctions such as fines, imprisonment and possible exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs. Federal False Claims Act We may become subject to the Federal False Claims Act, or FCA. The FCA imposes civil fines and penalties against anyone who knowingly submits or causes to be submitted to a government agency a false claim for payment. The FCA contains so-called “whistle-blower” provisions that permit a private individual to bring a claim, called a qui tam action, on behalf of the government to recover payments made as a result of a false claim. The statute provides that the whistle-blower may be paid a portion of any funds recovered as a result of the lawsuit. Even though the VeriMed system is not reimbursed by federal healthcare programs, it is still possible that we may be liable for violations of the FCA, for instance, if a sales representative were to assist or instruct a physician to bill a government program for microchip implantation by listing on the claim form some other service that is reimbursable. 13 Table of Contents State Laws and Regulations Many states have enacted laws similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and FCA. The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 contains provisions that give monetary incentives to states to enact new state false claims acts. The state Attorneys General are actively engaged in promoting the passage and enforcement of these laws. While the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute and FCA apply only to federal programs, many similar state laws apply both to state funded and to commercial health care programs. In addition to these laws, all states have passed various consumer protection statutes. These statutes generally prohibit deceptive and unfair marketing practices, including making untrue or exaggerated claims regarding consumer products. There are potentially a wide variety of other state laws, including state privacy laws, to which we might be subject. We have not conducted an exhaustive examination of these state laws. Privacy Laws and Regulations Our VeriMed business is subject to various federal and state laws regulating the protection of consumer privacy. We have never been challenged by a governmental authority under any of these laws and believe that our operations are in material compliance with such laws. However, because of the far-reaching nature of these laws, there can be no assurance that we would not be required to alter one or more of our systems and data security procedures to be in compliance with these laws. Our failure to protect health information received from customers could subject us to liability and adverse publicity and could harm our business and impair our ability to attract new customers. U.S. Federal Trade Commission Oversight An increasing focus of the United States Federal Trade Commission’s (FTC’s) consumer protection regulation is the impact of technological change on protection of consumer privacy. Under the FTC’s statutory authority to prosecute unfair or deceptive acts and practices, the FTC vigorously enforces promises a business makes about how personal information is collected, used and secured. Since 1999, the FTC has taken enforcement action against companies that do not abide by their representations to consumers of electronic security and privacy. More recently, the FTC has found that failure to take reasonable and appropriate security measures to protect sensitive personal information is an unfair practice violating federal law. In the consent decree context, offenders are routinely required to adopt very specific cybersecurity and internal compliance mechanisms, as well as submit to twenty years of independent compliance audits. Businesses that do not adopt reasonable and appropriate data security controls have been found liable for as much as $10 million in civil penalties and $5 million in consumer redress. The FTC continues to actively consider the potential impact of RFID on consumer protection issues. In 2006, the FTC launched a new initiative, “Protecting Consumers in the Next Tech-ade” and convened public hearings on November 6-8, 2006 that brought together experts from the business, government and technology sectors as well as consumer advocates, academics and law enforcement officials to explore ways in which convergence and the globalization of commerce impact consumer protection. Panelists examined changes in marketing and technology over the past decade and challenges facing consumers, business and government. One of the panels, entitled “RFID Technology in the Next Tech-ade,” focused on the role of RFID in the healthcare and retail sectors. State Legislation During 2008, four state legislatures (Georgia, Maryland, Missouri and Pennsylvania) considered but did not pass legislation addressing implantable chips and consumer privacy concerns. The states of California, North Dakota and Wisconsin have adopted laws prohibiting chip implantation without the recipient’s prior consent. A number of states also introduced legislation focusing on the consumer privacy implications of RFID use in government identification documents, prescription drug tracking, retail sales, healthcare records and tracking of one individual by another. As of December 31, 2008, none of this legislative activity restricts our current or planned operations. Many states have privacy laws relating specifically to the use and disclosure of healthcare information. Federal healthcare privacy laws preempt state laws that are less restrictive than the federal law, but more restrictive state laws still may apply to us. Therefore, we may be required to comply with one or more of these multiple state privacy laws. Statutory penalties for violation of these state privacy laws varies widely. Violations also may subject us to lawsuits for invasion of privacy claims. 14 Table of Contents The European Union In the European Union (EU), promotion of RFID technology is viewed as a critical economic issue. It is established that insofar as RFID is a technology involving collection, sharing and storage of personally identifiable information, the mandates of Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the Protection of Individuals With Regard to the Processing of Personal Data and On the Free Movement of Such Data (“EU Data Directive”) applies. All 25 EU member countries have implemented the EU data directive. At issue today is whether additional privacy protection laws beyond those prescribed by the EU data directive and its country-specific laws are needed for privacy issues raised by RFID technology. On January 19, 2005, the EU’s Working Party 29, charged with interpretation and expansion of EU data protection law and policy, and adopted Working Document 105, addressing data protection issues related to RFID technology. That document reinforced the need to comply with the basic principles of the EU data directive and related documents whenever personal data is collected via RFID technology. Guidance to RFID manufacturers was also provided regarding responsibilities to design privacy compliant technology. On March 15, 2007, the Commission of the European Communities adopted a Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions, entitled Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) in Europe: Steps Towards a Policy Framework (SEC(2007)312). The Communication highlights the need for legal certainty for both users and investors in the context of a policy framework that will address: ethical implications; the need to protect privacy and security; governance of the RFID identity databases; availability of radio spectrum; the establishment of harmonized international standards; and concerns over the health and environmental implications. Over the next two years the Commission plans to analyze its options for responding to these concerns through discussions with relevant stakeholders. The Commission will also strengthen its international contacts with other countries, including the United States, with the objective of striving for global interoperability on the basis of open, fair and transparent international standards. The Communication is advisory in nature. While no affirmative regulatory action has been taken by the EU on the specific of these RFID regulatory concerns, working through them in the coming years appears to provide both challenges and opportunities. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 We are not a health care provider, health plan or health care clearinghouse. Therefore, we are not subject to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA. To the extent required by HIPAA, we have entered into business associate agreements with certain health care providers and health plans relating to the privacy and security of protected health information. We have implemented policies and procedures to enable us to comply with these HIPAA business associate agreements. Employees As of February 4, 2009, we had 7 employees, of whom 3 in management, finance and accounting, 2 in medical and business development, and 2 in support. We consider our relationship with our employees to be satisfactory and have not experienced any interruptions of our operations as a result of labor disagreements. None of our employees are represented by labor unions or covered by collective bargaining agreements. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risks and the risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” could materially affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. If any these risks materialize, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. 15 Table of Contents Risks Occasioned by the Xmark Transaction We will be unable to compete with Xmark’s business for four years from the date of closing. We have agreed that, for a period of four years after the closing of the Xmark Transaction, or July 2012, we will not (i) directly or indirectly participate with, control or own an interest in any entity that is engaged in the business of manufacturing, selling, financing, supplying, marketing or distributing infant security systems, wander prevention systems, asset/personnel and identification systems, and vibration monitoring instruments anywhere in the world or (ii) solicit, induce, encourage or attempt to persuade any employee of Xmark to terminate his or her employment relationship with Xmark, or offer to hire any Xmark employee. Our remaining business, the VeriMed Health Link business, is not deemed to compete with Xmark’s business. However, the non-compete provisions will restrict our ability to engage in any business that competes with Xmark’s business until July 2012. We will continue to incur the expenses of complying with public company reporting requirements. We have an obligation to continue to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, which includes the filing with the SEC of periodic reports, proxy statements and other documents relating to our business, financial conditions and other matters, even though compliance with such reporting requirements is economically burdensome. Risks Related to Our VeriMed Health Link Business Which Utilizes the Implantable Microchip We may never achieve market acceptance or significant sales of this system. Through December 31, 2008, we had generated nominal revenue from sales of the microchip inserter kits. We may never achieve market acceptance or more than nominal or modest sales of this system. We attribute the modest number of people who, through December 31, 2008, have undergone the microchip implant procedure to the following factors: • Many people who fit the profile for which the VeriMed Health Link system was designed may not be willing to have a microchip implanted in their upper right arm. • Physicians may be reluctant to discuss the implant procedure with their patients until a greater number of hospital emergency rooms have adopted the VeriMed Health Link system as part of their standard protocol. • Physicians may be reluctant to discuss the implant procedure with their patients because of the cost to their patients. • The media has from time to time reported, and may continue to report, on the VeriMed Health Link system in an unfavorable and, on occasion, an inaccurate manner. For example, there have been articles published asserting, despite at least one study to the contrary, that the implanted microchip is not magnetic resonance imaging, or MRI, compatible. There have also been articles published asserting, despite numerous studies to the contrary, that the implanted microchip causes malignant tumor formation in laboratory animals. • Privacy concerns may influence individuals to refrain from undergoing the implant procedure or dissuade physicians from recommending the VeriMed Health Link system to their patients. Misperceptions that a microchip-implanted person can be “tracked” and that the microchip itself contains a person’s basic information, such as name, contact information, and personal health records, may contribute to such concerns. 16 Table of Contents • Misperceptions and/or negative publicity may prompt legislative or administrative efforts by politicians or groups opposed to the development and use of human-implantable RFID microchips. In 2007 and 2008, a number of states introduced, and at least four states (Wisconsin, California, Oklahoma and North Dakota) have enacted, legislation that would prohibit any requirement that an individual undergo a microchip-implant procedure. While we support all pending and enacted legislation that would preclude anything other than voluntary implantation, legislative bodies or government agencies may determine to go further, and their actions may have the effect, directly or indirectly, of delaying, limiting or preventing the use of human-implantable RFID microchips or the sale, manufacture or use of RFID systems utilizing such microchips. • At present, the cost of the microchip implant procedure is not covered by Medicare, Medicaid or private health insurance. • At present, no studies to assess the impact of the VeriMed Health Link system on the quality of emergency department care have been completed and publicly released. We do not expect to generate more than nominal revenue form our VeriMed Health Link business over the next 12 to 18 months, and we cannot assure you that our VeriMed Health Link business will achieve profitability in the near term. Our VeriMed Health Link business generated gross sales of $76,000 in 2007 and $43,000 in 2008. We are currently focused on the options for the Company, including the possible development of the glucose sensing microchip, and are considering and will review other strategic opportunities. We believe that sales of our implantable microchip, and the extent to which our VeriMed Health Link system achieves market acceptance, will depend, in part, on the availability of insurance reimbursement from third-party payers, including federal and state governments under programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and private insurance plans. Insurers may not determine to cover the cost of the implant procedure, or it may take a considerable period of time for this to occur. We believe that sales of our implantable microchip, and the extent to which our VeriMed Health Link system achieves market acceptance, will depend, in part, on the availability of insurance reimbursement from third-party payers, including federal and state government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, private health insurers, managed care organizations and other healthcare providers. Both governmental and private third-party payers are increasingly challenging the coverage and prices of medical products and services, and require proven efficacy and cost effectiveness for reimbursement. If patients undergoing the microchip implant procedure, or health institutions and doctors using the VeriMed Health Link system, are not able to obtain adequate reimbursement for the cost of using these products and services, they may forego or reduce their use. While we are in the process of facilitating and, in one case, funding clinical studies that may demonstrate the efficacy of the VeriMed Health Link system, which we believe will make it more likely that government and private insurers will cover the cost of the microchip implant process, it may take a considerable period of time for this to occur, if, in fact, it does occur. If government and private insurers do not determine to reimburse the cost of the implant process, we would not expect to realize the anticipated level of future sales of our implantable microchip and the database subscription fees. 17 Table of Contents Implantation of our implantable microchip may be found to cause risks to a person’s health, which could adversely affect sales of our systems which incorporate the implantable microchip. The implantation of our implantable microchip may be found, or be perceived, to cause risks to a person’s health. Potential or perceived risks include adverse tissue reactions, migration of the microchip and infection from implantation. There have been articles published asserting, despite numerous studies to the contrary, that the implanted microchip causes malignant tumor formation in laboratory animals. As more people are implanted with our implantable microchip, it is possible that these and other risks to health will manifest themselves. Actual or perceived risks to a person’s health associated with the microchip implantation process could constrain our sales of the VeriMed Health Link system or result in costly and expensive litigation. Further, the potential resultant negative publicity could damage our business reputation, leading to loss in sales of our other systems targeted at the healthcare market which would harm our business and negatively affect our prospects. If we are required to effect a recall of our implantable microchip, our reputation could be materially and adversely affected and the cost of any such recall could be substantial, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. From time to time, implanted devices have become subject to recall due to safety, efficacy, product failures or other concerns. To date, we have not had to recall any of our implantable microchips. However, if, in the future, we are required to effect such a recall, the cost of the recall, and the likely related loss of system sales, could be substantial and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, any such recall could materially adversely affect our reputation and our ability to sell our systems that make use of the implantable microchip which would harm our business and negatively affect our prospects. Interruptions in access to, or the hacking into, our VeriMed Health Link patient information database may have a negative impact on our revenue, damage our reputation and expose us to litigation. Reliable access to the VeriMed Health Link patient information database is a key component of the functionality of our VeriMed Health Link system. Our ability to provide uninterrupted access to the database, whether operated by us or one or more third parties with whom we contract, will depend on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of the computer and communications systems involved. Although certain elements of technological, power, communications, personnel and site redundancy are maintained, the database may not be fully redundant. Further, the database may not function properly if certain necessary third-party systems fail, or if some other unforeseen act or natural disaster should occur. In the past, we have experienced short periods during which the database was inaccessible as a result of development work, system maintenance and power outages. Any disruption of the database services, computer systems or communications networks, or those of third parties that we rely on, could result in the inability of users to access the database for an indeterminate period of time. This, in turn, could cause us to lose the confidence of the healthcare community and persons who have undergone the microchip implant procedure, resulting in a loss of revenue and possible litigation. In addition, if the firewall software protecting the information contained in our database fails or someone is successful in hacking into the database, we could face damage to our business reputation and litigation. Regulation of products and services that collect personally-identifiable information or otherwise monitor an individual’s activities may make the provision of our services more difficult or expensive and could jeopardize our growth prospects. Certain technologies that we currently, or may in the future, support are capable of collecting personally-identifiable information. A growing body of laws designed to protect the privacy of personally-identifiable information, as well as to protect against its misuse, and the judicial interpretations of such laws, may adversely affect the growth of our business. In the U.S., these laws include the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, or HIPAA, the Federal Trade Commission Act, the Electronic Communications Privacy Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, as well as various state laws and related regulations. Although we are not a covered entity under HIPAA, we have entered into agreements with certain covered entities in which we are considered to be a “business associate” under HIPAA. As a business associate, we are required to implement policies, procedures and reasonable and appropriate security measures to protect individually identifiable health information we receive from covered entities. Our failure to protect health information received from customers could subject us to liability and adverse publicity, and could harm our business and impair our ability to attract new customers. 18 Table of Contents In addition, certain governmental agencies, like the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and the Federal Trade Commission, have the authority to protect against the misuse of consumer information by targeting companies that collect, disseminate or maintain personal information in an unfair or deceptive manner. We are also subject to the laws of those foreign jurisdictions in which we operate, some of which currently have more protective privacy laws. If we fail to comply with applicable regulations in this area, our business and prospects could be harmed. Certain regulatory approvals generally must be obtained from the governments of the countries in which our foreign distributors sell our systems. However, any such approval may be subject to significant delays or may not be obtained. Any actions by regulatory agencies could materially and adversely affect our growth plans and the success of our business. If we fail to comply with anti-kickback and false claims laws, we could be subject to costly and time-consuming litigation and possible fines or other penalties. We are, or may become subject to, various federal and state laws designed to address healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. The federal anti-kickback statute prohibits the offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for referring items or services payable by Medicare, Medicaid or any other federally-funded healthcare program. This statute also prohibits remuneration in return for purchasing, leasing or ordering or arranging, or recommending the purchasing, leasing or ordering, of items or services payable by Medicare, Medicaid or any other federally-funded healthcare program. The anti-kickback laws of various states apply more broadly to prohibit remuneration in return for referrals of business payable by payers other than federal healthcare programs. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, for payment to third-party payers, including Medicare and Medicaid, which currently do not provide reimbursement for our microchip implant procedure, claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed, or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Our activities relating to the reporting of wholesale or estimated retail prices of our VeriMed Health Link system, the reporting of Medicaid rebate information, and other information affecting federal, state and third-party payment for the VeriMed Health Link system, if such payment becomes available, will be subject to scrutiny under these laws. The anti-kickback statute and other fraud and abuse laws are very broad in scope, and many of their provisions have not been uniformly or definitively interpreted by existing case law or regulations. Violations of the anti-kickback statute and other fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from federal healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, which currently do not provide reimbursement for our microchip implant procedure. We have not been challenged by a governmental authority under any of these laws and believe that our operations are in compliance with such laws. However, because of the far-reaching nature of these laws, we may be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. Healthcare fraud and abuse regulations are complex and even minor, inadvertent irregularities in submissions can potentially give rise to claims that the statute has been violated. If we are found to have violated these laws, or are charged with violating them, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer, and our management team could be required to dedicate significant time and resources addressing the actual or alleged violations. 19 Table of Contents If we are found liable in lawsuits that have been brought against us or if we are found liable in other litigation to which we may become subject in the future, we may be forced to pay substantial damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are currently involved in a few legal proceedings. We have accrued our estimate of the probable costs for the resolution of these claims. It is possible, however, that future results of operations for any particular quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by changes in these estimates. If we are unsuccessful in the defense against any of the legal proceedings, we may be forced to pay substantial damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we fail to continue to meet all applicable Nasdaq Stock Market requirements, our stock could be delisted by the Nasdaq Stock Market. If delisting occurs, it would adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock and harm our businesses. On October 21, 2008, we received a letter from Nasdaq indicating that we are not in compliance with the Nasdaq’s requirements for continued listing because, for the 30 consecutive business days prior to October 16, 2008, the bid price of our common stock closed below the minimum $1.00 per share price requirement for continued listing under Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4450(a) (the “Rule”) and, our common stock had not maintained a minimum market value of publicly held shares (“MVPHS”) of $5 million as required for continued inclusion by the Rule. On November 17, 2008, we received a notice from Nasdaq indicating that our stockholders’ equity at September 30, 2008 was less than the $10 million in stockholders’ equity required for continued listing on The Nasdaq Global Market under Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(3). In its notice, Nasdaq requested that we provide our plan to achieve and sustain compliance with the continued listing requirements of The Nasdaq Global Market, including the minimum stockholders’ equity requirement, before December 2, 2008, which we complied with. If Nasdaq determines that we have not presented a definitive plan to achieve compliance in the short term and sustain compliance in the long term, it will provide us with a written notification that our securities will be delisted from Nasdaq Global Market. If we receive a notification, we may then apply to move to The Nasdaq Capital Market or appeal Nasdaq’s delisting determination to a Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel. Given the current market conditions, Nasdaq suspended enforcement of the bid price and market value of publicly held shares requirements for all companies listed on Nasdaq through Sunday, April 19, 2009. Following the reinstatement of these rules, and in accordance with Marketplace Rule 4450(e)(2), we have 180 calendar days from Monday, April 20, 2009, or until October 19, 2009, to regain compliance with the bid price requirement. Following the reinstatement of these rules, and in accordance with Marketplace Rule 4450(e)(1), we have 90 calendar days from April 20, 2009, or until July 20, 2009, to regain compliance with the market value requirements. If, at anytime before October 19, 2009, including during the suspension period, the bid price of our common stock closes at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of ten (10) consecutive business days, the Nasdaq staff will provide written notification that we have achieved compliance with the Rule. However, if we do not regain compliance with the Rule by October 19, 2009, the Nasdaq staff will provide written notification that our securities will be delisted. At that time, we may appeal the Nasdaq staff’s determination to delist our securities to a Listing Qualifications Panel. If, at anytime before July 20, 2009, the MVPHS of our common stock is $5,000,000 or greater for a minimum of ten (10) consecutive trading days, the Nasdaq staff will provide written notification that we comply with the Rule. If compliance with the Rule cannot be demonstrated by July 20, 2009, the Nasdaq staff will provide written notification that our securities will be delisted. At that time, we may appeal the Nasdaq staff’s determination to a Listing Qualifications Panel. If our common stock is delisted from the Nasdaq Stock Market, trading of our common stock most likely will be conducted in the over-the-counter market on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities, such as the Pink Sheets or the OTC Bulletin Board. Delisting would adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock and harm our business. Such delisting could also adversely affect our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations and could result in the loss of confidence by investors, suppliers and employees. 20 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 