ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risks and the risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” could materially affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. If any these risks materialize, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business If we cannot successfully implement our business strategy, we expect that our business, results of operations and potential for growth will be adversely affected. If our market assessments, or the assumptions, estimates and judgments underlying such assessments, on which we have charted our course for our business, prove to be incorrect, we may not be successful in implementing our strategy or achieving our objectives. In that case, we would expect that our business, results of operations, financial condition and potential for growth will be adversely affected. Our business strategy for our Canadian-based businesses, from which we are currently generating substantially all of our revenue, includes: • endeavoring to market and sell, through international distributors, an increasing number of our infant protection, wander prevention and asset/staff location and identification systems outside of North America, where the market for these products is largely undeveloped; • leveraging our established brand recognition, reseller network and extensive end-use customer base for our infant protection and wander prevention systems to gain inroads in the emerging market for asset/staff location and identification systems; • working to complete our efforts to integrate our infant protection, wander prevention and asset/staff location and identification systems on one technology platform to enhance the flexibility, scalability and expandability of our system offerings; and • introducing a new vibration monitoring instrumentation platform that better integrates with contemporary data communications protocols so as to improve our vibration monitoring instruments’ remote monitoring capabilities. Our business strategy also includes dedicating a portion of the operating cash flows derived from our healthcare security, implantable and industrial, businesses, as well as a portion of the net proceeds from our initial public offering, to funding our efforts to create markets for our systems that utilize our implantable microchip, principally our VeriMed system, from which, to date, we have generated only nominal revenue. We do not expect to generate more than nominal revenue from these systems over the next 12 to 18 months and possibly for a longer period of time. We may decide to alter or discontinue aspects of our business strategy and may adopt alternative or additional strategies because of business or competitive factors or factors not currently foreseen, such as the introduction of new products by our competitors or the emergence of new technologies that would make our products and systems obsolete. If we are unable to successfully implement our current or future business strategy, our business, results of operations, financial condition and potential for growth may be adversely affected. We have a history of losses, and expect to incur additional losses in the future. We are unable to predict the extent of future losses or when we will become profitable. We were formed by Applied Digital in November 2001 and have incurred operating losses since that time. Our accumulated deficit was $17.0 million as of December 31, 2006. Our net losses for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 were $6.7 million, $5.3 million and $2.0 million, respectively. We expect to continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. Our ability in the future to achieve or sustain profitability is based on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the future demand for our active RFID systems targeted at the healthcare sector and the development of the market for our VeriMed system. If demand for our RFID systems generally, and the VeriMed system in particular, does not reach anticipated levels, or if we fail to manage our cost structure, we may not achieve or be able to sustain profitability. 27 Table of Contents Our expense levels will increase over the next several years, contributing to our expectation that we will incur losses for the foreseeable future. We expect our operating expenses to increase over the next several years. For example, our operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2006 were 6% higher than our pro forma combined operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2005. The 2006 increase was due, in part, to the restructuring charges taken in the fourth quarter of 2006 relating to the consolidation of our Canadian operations. The increase in future operating expenses will result from, among other things: • the expansion of our sales and marketing efforts to create a market for our VeriMed system as we expect to continue the buildout of our VeriMed infrastructure in the geographies in which we currently operate and to expand our geographical reach during 2007; and • our having become an SEC-reporting and Nasdaq-listed company and, as such, being subject to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, SEC rules and regulations to implement certain of the Act’s provisions, including the requirement to have in place, and evaluate, internal control over financial reporting, and Nasdaq listing standards. This Annual Report on Form 10-K does not include a report of management’s assessment regarding internal control over financial reporting or an attestation report of the Company’s registered public accounting firm due to a transition period established by rules of the SEC for newly public companies. We will have to include a report of management’s assessment regarding internal control over financial reporting, beginning with our annual report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. Assuming we do not become an accelerated filer by the time we file our annual report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2007, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be engaged to attest to management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting until our annual report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2008. • As a result of stock based compensation granted in late 2006 and through March 23, 2007, we expect to record between $2.5 million and $3.0 million in stock-based compensation expense in 2007. In addition, we will incur significant amortization expense associated with intangible assets that we acquired as a result of the acquisition of our Canadian-based businesses in the first half of 2005. Specifically, we incurred approximately $1.8 million in amortization expense associated with these intangible assets in the year ended December 31, 2006. VHI’s existing bank credit facility may be terminated, or the lender may limit the availability of borrowings under that facility, at any time without notice. Further, all borrowings under the facility are repayable upon the lender’s demand. A demand for repayment or any restriction on the availability of borrowings under the facility would adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. Our wholly-owned subsidiary, VHI, is a party to loan agreements providing it with a bank credit facility of up to CDN$1.5 million, or approximately $1.3 million based on the exchange rate as of December 31, 2006, in revolving credit loans. The facility is not a committed facility, as it provides that loans are made available at the sole discretion of the lender. The lender may cancel or restrict the availability of the facility, or any unutilized portion of the facility, at any time or from time to time. Borrowings under the facility are repayable on demand, as a result of which outstanding borrowings are reflected as current liabilities in our consolidated financial statements. In addition, the payment and other obligations under the loan agreements are secured by all of the assets of VHI and its subsidiary. If the lender demands repayment of the borrowings under the facility, we may not have sufficient funds, or may be required to use a portion of any then remaining proceeds of our initial public offering to honor such demand. In such event, the lender would have the right to foreclose on the assets securing such borrowings. In addition, if the lender cancels or restricts our available borrowings under the facility, our ability to fund our operations may be materially and adversely affected and our prospects for growth would be harmed. 28 Table of Contents To support the expected increase in our working capital requirements, we will seek to obtain a larger, committed bank credit facility. However, no assurance can be given that we will be successful in obtaining such a facility. If we are unable to do so, our ability to grow our business and our prospects may be adversely affected. We may need additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or efforts to create a market for our VeriMed system. We expect to require funding in future years, in addition to the proceeds from our initial public offering, to create a market for our VeriMed system and any additional technologies or systems that we may license or develop. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution. In addition, our business and operations may change in a manner that would consume available resources at a greater rate than we anticipated. In such event, we may need to raise substantial additional capital. We may seek to raise necessary funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or strategic alliance and licensing arrangements. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our development programs, and our business, financial performance and stock price may be materially and adversely affected. To raise additional funds through strategic alliance or licensing arrangements, we may be required to relinquish rights to our technologies or systems, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. The markets for our infant protection and wander prevention systems, and our vibration monitoring instruments, in the United States are relatively mature markets of limited size, which may limit our ability to increase our sales of these systems. In the near term, we expect that our revenue will continue to be derived primarily from sales of our infant protection and wander prevention systems, and our vibration monitoring instruments. The markets for these systems—at least in the United States, where historically we have sold the substantial majority of our sales of these systems—can all be characterized as being of limited size and relatively mature. In the event we are not able to develop new markets, our future growth prospects will be modest. We cannot assure you that our historical revenue growth rates from these systems will continue. To date, we have sold and had installed a limited number of our asset/staff location and identification systems. There are a number of factors beyond our control that may limit future sales of these systems. To date, we have sold and had installed three of our asset/staff location and identification systems. These systems were sold through a single distributor on a private label basis. While we believe that the potential for RFID real-time location systems, such as our asset/staff location and identification system, to improve the quality and decrease the cost of healthcare is significant, the market for such systems in the healthcare sector is just emerging. The pace at which healthcare facilities have implemented RFID systems has been slower than many who follow the industry have anticipated. Market analysts have cited a number of factors that may be constraining the rate and extent of the U.S. healthcare industry’s adoption of RFID asset/staff location and identification systems, including: • the cost of deployment, coupled with the limited budgets of many hospitals; • the uncertainty or unquantifiable nature of the return on investment; • system compatibility issues; • the low level of awareness; and • privacy concerns. We believe that our asset/staff location and identification system will need to capture market share in this emerging market within the next 12-24 months, as we expect that a significant factor in hospitals’ choice of system vendors will be referrals to other healthcare facilities that have deployed, and are pleased with, such systems. To achieve this, we will need to be on the forefront of the effort to educate healthcare industry personnel regarding the benefits, including the return on investment, achievable through implementation of RFID location and identification systems. 29 Table of Contents We may be unable to increase our sales of infant protection and wander prevention systems outside of North America. We currently sell substantially all of our infant protection and wander prevention systems in North America. Part of our growth strategy is to increase our penetration of markets outside of North America for these systems. Conducting business internationally entails numerous risks, which could disrupt or otherwise adversely affect our business, including: • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, taxes, trade laws, tariffs, import and export controls, customs duties and other trade restrictions or barriers; • more stringent regulations relating to data privacy and the unauthorized use of, or access to, commercial and personal information, particularly in Europe; • regulations, such as with respect to radio frequency bands, that require us to redesign our existing systems or develop new systems to comply; • restrictions on the transfer of funds; • changes in governmental policies and regulations; • limitations on the level of intellectual property protections; and • political unrest, terrorism and war. If we are unable to expand our international distribution network in a timely and cost-effective manner, we could miss sales opportunities, which could constrain our growth. Sales of our vibration monitoring instruments will be adversely affected if the introduction of our new instrumentation platform for these instruments is delayed or if the new platform does not achieve market acceptance. If the introduction of our new vibration monitoring instrumentation platform is delayed or if the new platform does not achieve market acceptance, sales of our vibration monitoring instruments, which currently represent the primary source of revenue in our industrial segment, will be adversely affected. The new platform will replace our existing platform for vibration monitoring instruments for which we are facing certain manufacturing challenges due to the discontinuation and unavailability of key components. The introduction of the new platform represents our primary strategy to grow our vibration monitoring business. If we fail to timely introduce the new platform or if the new platform does not achieve market acceptance, our ability to grow this business will be materially and adversely affected. Our competitors, including those who have greater resources and experience than we do, may commercialize technologies that make ours obsolete or noncompetitive. There are many public and private companies, universities, governmental agencies and research organizations actively engaged in research and development of RFID and other competing technologies with the same or similar functionality as our systems and that target the same markets that we target. Our active RFID systems, such as our infant protection, wander prevention and asset/staff location and identification systems, utilize a zonal, also known as cell ID, system in which a network of readers are positioned to cover a defined area, including points of ingress or egress, to read tagged persons or objects within the defined area. There are a number of other technologies, such as UHF-based active RFID technologies, lower power Ultra Wide Band-based location technologies, 802.11 and Zigbee-based location and wireless networking technologies, and advanced, long range, encrypted passive RFID technology, that are being developed and sold that can be employed for our target applications. One or more of these technologies may prove to be a better or more cost-effective solution than our RFID systems for customers in our target markets and thus achieve greater market acceptance than the technologies used in our systems. If this were to occur, our ability to sell our systems, as well as our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects, would be adversely affected. Some of our current competitors, as well as companies who utilize RFID technologies in applications outside of our target markets, have significantly greater financial, marketing and product development resources than we do. Low barriers to entry across most of our product lines may result in new competitors entering the markets we serve. If a current or future competitor were to successfully develop or acquire rights to more effective or lower cost systems for applications targeted by our systems, then sales of our systems could suffer and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 30 Table of Contents If we are unable to successfully integrate the operations, systems and personnel of the two Canadian-based businesses we acquired in the first half of 2005, our management team may be distracted or ineffective and our sales efforts may be impaired. In the first half of 2005, we acquired two Canadian-based businesses that currently account for essentially all of our revenue. The acquired companies significantly expanded the scope of our operations in a rapid manner, and the integration of their operations, systems and personnel is ongoing and continues to present us with challenges, including: • the consolidation of the acquired companies’ respective facilities, scheduled to be completed in the first half of 2007; • managing our relationships with the acquired companies’ dealers and end-use customers; • entering markets or types of businesses in which certain members of our management team (who were not affiliated with either of the acquired companies) have little or no prior experience; and • integrating different and complex accounting and financial reporting systems. As part of our integration of the acquired companies, we are in the process of integrating virtually all of our infant protection, wander prevention and asset/staff location and identification systems onto a common technology platform, capable of being integrated with other wireless technologies to enhance the flexibility, scalability and expandability of these system offerings. A key element of our growth strategy is to demonstrate the advantages of this common platform and cross-market to our customers our full portfolio of systems. If we are unable to successfully integrate these systems onto a single platform, our sales efforts and ability to cross-market our systems may be impaired, and our revenue may be adversely affected. We rely upon third-party dealers to market and sell, as well as install, service and maintain, our infant protection, wander prevention and asset/staff location and identification systems, and to market and sell our vibration monitoring instruments. As such, our revenue from sales of these products significantly depends on their efforts, as does the level of end-use customer satisfaction. We currently have a limited sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure. We market and sell our infant protection, wander prevention and asset/staff location and identification systems, as well as vibration monitoring instruments, through third-party dealers. We currently derive substantially all of our revenue from these systems and instruments. In general, our dealer agreements impose no minimum purchase requirements. By virtue of our reliance on dealers, our revenue significantly depends on the efforts of others. In addition, we are at risk that an end-use customer may have an unfavorable view of one of our systems based on a dealer’s improper installation, support or maintenance of that system. Our dealers of our infant protection, wander prevention and asset/staff location and identification systems also have responsibility for the installation and after-sale servicing and maintenance of such systems. System installation requires relationships with cable companies, knowledge of the other products that need to be integrated with our hardware and knowledge of local codes. After-market customer service and maintenance is an important aspect of overall end-use customer satisfaction. We may be subject to costly product liability claims from the use of our systems, which could damage our reputation, impair the marketability of our systems and force us to pay costs and damages that may not be covered by adequate insurance. Manufacturing, marketing, selling, testing and operation of our systems entail a risk of product liability. We could be subject to product liability claims in the event our systems fail to perform as intended. Even unsuccessful claims against us could result in the expenditure of funds in litigation, the diversion of management time and resources, damage to our reputation and impairment in the marketability of our systems. While we maintain liability insurance, it is possible that a successful claim could be made against us, that the amount of our insurance coverage would not be adequate to cover the costs of defending against or paying such a claim, or that damages payable by us would harm our business. 31 Table of Contents If others assert that our products infringe their intellectual property rights, including rights to the patent covering our implantable microchip, we may be drawn into costly disputes and risk paying substantial damages or losing the right to sell our products. We face the risk of adverse claims and litigation alleging our infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. If infringement claims are brought against us or our suppliers, including, in the case of our implantable microchip, Digital Angel, these assertions could distract management and necessitate our expending potentially significant funds and resources to defend or settle such claims. We cannot be certain that we will have the financial resources to defend ourselves against any patent or other intellectual property litigation. If we or our suppliers are unsuccessful in any challenge to our rights to market and sell our products, we may, among other things, be required to: • pay actual damages, royalties, lost profits and/or increased damages and the third party’s attorneys’ fees, which may be substantial; • cease the development, manufacture, use and/or sale of products that use the intellectual property in question through a court-imposed sanction called an injunction; • expend significant resources to modify or redesign our products, manufacturing processes or other technology so that it does not infringe others’ intellectual property rights or to develop or acquire non-infringing technology, which may not be possible; or • obtain licenses to the disputed rights, which could require us to pay substantial upfront fees and future royalty payments and may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, or to cease marketing the challenged products. Ultimately, we could be prevented from selling a product or otherwise forced to cease some aspect of our business operations as a result of any intellectual property litigation. Even if we or our suppliers are successful in defending an infringement claim, the expense, time delay, and burden on management of litigation and negative publicity could have a material adverse effect on our business. See also “Item 1A. Risks Related to Our Businesses Which Utilize the Implantable Microchip—Our sales of systems that incorporate our implantable microchip may be enjoined by third parties who have rights to the intellectual property used in these systems and we may be required to pay damages which could have an adverse effect on our business.” Our inability to safeguard our intellectual property may adversely affect our business by causing us to lose a competitive advantage or by forcing us to engage in costly and time-consuming litigation to defend or enforce our rights. We rely on copyrights, trademarks, trade secret protections, know-how and contractual safeguards to protect our non-patented intellectual property, including our software technologies. Our employees, consultants and advisors are required to enter into confidentiality agreements that prohibit the disclosure or use of our confidential information. We also have entered into confidentiality agreements to protect our confidential information delivered to third parties for research and other purposes. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively enforce these agreements, the confidential information will not be disclosed, others will not independently develop substantially equivalent confidential information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our confidential information, or that we can meaningfully protect our confidential information. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our confidential information, and failure to maintain the confidentiality of our confidential information could adversely affect our business by causing us to lose a competitive advantage maintained through such confidential information. Disputes may arise in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to any technology developed with third parties. These and other possible disagreements could lead to delays in the collaborative research, development or commercialization of our systems, or could require or result in costly and time-consuming litigation that may not be decided in our favor. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations by delaying our ability to commercialize innovations or by diverting our resources away from revenue-generating projects. 32 Table of Contents Our efforts to protect our intellectual property may be less effective in some foreign countries where intellectual property rights are not as well protected as in the United States. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. Policing unauthorized use of the intellectual property utilized in our systems and system components is difficult, and there is a risk that our means of protecting our intellectual property may prove inadequate in these countries. Our competitors in these countries may independently develop similar technology or duplicate our systems, which would likely reduce our sales in these countries. Furthermore, some of our patent rights may be limited in enforceability to the United States or certain other select countries, which may limit our intellectual property rights abroad. We may not be successful in our efforts to obtain federal registration of our trademarks containing the “Veri” prefix with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. In June 2004, VeriSign, Inc. filed oppositions with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, objecting to our registration of the VeriChip trade name and our trademarks that begin with the “Veri” prefix. We and VeriSign are seeking to amicably resolve the opposition proceeding. In the event an amicable resolution is not reached and VeriSign is successful in the opposition proceedings, our applications to register VeriChip and our other “Veri-” marks will be refused. It is also possible that VeriSign could bring a court action seeking to enjoin our use of VeriChip and the other “Veri-” marks and/or seek monetary damages from our use of these marks. If VeriSign were to bring a court action and prevail in that action, we may required to re-name our Company and re-brand some of our products, such as VeriMed, VeriGuard and VeriTrace, as well as to possibly pay damages to VeriSign for our use of any trademarks found to have been confusingly similar to those of VeriSign. We depend on key personnel to manage our business effectively, and, if we are unable to hire, retain or motivate qualified personnel, our ability to design, develop, market and sell our systems could be harmed. Our future success depends, in part, on certain key employees, including Scott R. Silverman, our chief executive officer, acting president and the chairman of our board of directors, and key technical and operations personnel, and on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel may seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In this regard, only five of the 15 people who served as vice presidents of the Company in June 2005, the time we completed the second of our two acquisitions in the first half of 2005, remained as our employees as of December 31, 2006. In addition, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineering, operations, finance, accounting, sales and marketing personnel, may also seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel will be a critical factor in determining whether we will be successful in the future. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs upon us. We must comply with local, state, federal, and international environmental laws and regulations in the countries in which we do business, including those governing the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes. If we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws, we could incur costs or fines, or be subject to third-party property damage or personal injury claims, or be required to incur investigation or remediation costs. Our operations and products will be affected by future environmental laws and regulations, but we cannot predict the ultimate impact of any such future laws and regulations at this time. Our distributors who place our products on the market in the European Union, or EU, are required to comply with EU Directive 2002/96/EC on waste electrical and electronic equipment, known as the WEEE Directive. Noncompliance by our distributors may adversely affect the success of our business in that market. Additionally, we are investigating the applicability of EU Directive 2002/95/EC on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment, known as the RoHS Directive. We do not expect the RoHS Directive will have a significant impact on our business. Risks Related to Our Businesses Which Utilize the Implantable Microchip We are endeavoring to create a market for our VeriMed system. We may never achieve market acceptance or significant sales of this system. We have been in the process of endeavoring to create a market for our VeriMed system since the FDA cleared the VeriMed system for use for patient identification and health information purposes in October 2004. Through December 31, 2006, we had only generated approximately $0.1 million in revenue from sales of the microchip inserter kits. We may never achieve market acceptance or more than nominal or modest sales of this system. 33 Table of Contents We attribute the modest number of people who, through the date of this Annual Report, have undergone the microchip implant procedure to the following factors: • Many people who fit the profile for which the VeriMed system was designed may not be willing to have a microchip implanted in their upper right arm. • Physicians may be reluctant to discuss the implant procedure with their patients until a greater number of hospital emergency rooms have adopted the VeriMed system as part of their standard protocol. • The media has from time to time reported, and may continue to report, on the VeriMed system in an unfavorable and, on occasion, an inaccurate manner. For example, there have been articles published asserting, despite at least one study to the contrary, that the implanted microchip is not magnetic resonance imaging, or MRI, compatible. • Privacy concerns may influence individuals to refrain from undergoing the implant procedure or dissuade physicians from recommending the VeriMed system to their patients. Misperceptions that a microchip-implanted person can be “tracked” and that the microchip itself contains a person’s basic information, such as name, contact information, and personal health records, may contribute to such concerns. • Misperceptions and/or negative publicity may prompt legislative or administrative efforts by politicians or groups opposed to the development and use of human-implantable RFID microchips. In 2006, a number of states have introduced, and at least one state, Wisconsin, has enacted, legislation that would prohibit any requirement that an individual undergo a microchip-implant procedure. While we support all pending and enacted legislation that would preclude anything other than voluntary implantation, legislative bodies or government agencies may determine to go further, and their actions may have the effect, directly or indirectly, of delaying, limiting or preventing the use of human-implantable RFID microchips or the sale, manufacture or use of RFID systems utilizing such microchips. • At present, the cost of the microchip implant procedure is not covered by Medicare, Medicaid or private health insurance. • At present, no clinical studies to assess the impact of the VeriMed system on the quality of emergency department care have been completed. In light of these and perhaps other factors, it is difficult to predict whether our VeriMed system will achieve market acceptance, how widespread that market acceptance will be, and the timing of such acceptance. Accordingly, we are uncertain as to whether we will generate the level of future revenue and revenue growth we have forecast from sales of the VeriMed system. We believe that sales of our implantable microchip, and the extent to which our VeriMed system achieves market acceptance, will depend, in part, on the availability of insurance reimbursement from third-party payers, including federal and state governments under programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and private insurance plans. Insurers may not determine to cover the cost of the implant procedure, or it may take a considerable period of time for this to occur. We believe that sales of our implantable microchip, and the extent to which our VeriMed system achieves market acceptance, will depend, in part, on the availability of insurance reimbursement from third-party payers, including federal and state government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, private health insurers, managed care organizations and other healthcare providers. Both governmental and private third-party payers are increasingly challenging the coverage and prices of medical products and services, and require proven efficacy and cost effectiveness for reimbursement. If patients undergoing the microchip implant procedure, or health institutions and doctors using the VeriMed system, are not able to obtain adequate reimbursement for the cost of using these products and services, they may forego or reduce their use. While we are in the process of facilitating and, in one case, funding clinical studies that may demonstrate the efficacy of the VeriMed system, which we believe will make it more likely that government and private insurers will cover the cost of the microchip implant process, it may take a considerable period of time for this to occur, if, in fact, it does occur. If government and private insurers do not determine to reimburse the cost of the implant process, we would not expect to realize the anticipated level of future sales of our implantable microchip and the database subscription fees. 34 Table of Contents Our sales of systems that incorporate our implantable microchip may be enjoined by third parties who have rights to the intellectual property used in these systems and we may be required to pay damages which would have an adverse effect on our business. We may face a claim that we are violating the intellectual property rights of one or more third parties with respect to U.S. Patent No. 5,211,129, “Syringe-Implantable Identification Transponders.” If such a claim is successful, we could be required to cease engaging in activities to market our systems that utilize the implantable microchip and to pay damages, which may be substantial. We obtain the implantable microchip used in our VeriMed, VeriGuard and VeriTrace systems from Digital Angel, a majority-owned subsidiary of our parent company, Applied Digital, under the terms of a supply agreement. Digital Angel, in turn, obtains the implantable microchip from a subsidiary of Raytheon Company under a separate supply agreement. The technology underlying our VeriMed, VeriGuard and VeriTrace systems is covered, in part, by U.S. Patent No. 5,211,129. In 1994, Destron/IDI, Inc., a predecessor company to Digital Angel Corporation, granted a co-exclusive license under this patent, other than for certain specified fields of use retained by the predecessor company, to Hughes Aircraft Company, or Hughes, and its then wholly-owned subsidiary, Hughes Identification Devices, Inc., or HID. The specified fields of use retained by the predecessor company do not include human identification and security applications. The rights licensed in 1994 to Hughes and HID were freely assignable, and we do not know which party or parties currently have these rights or whether these rights have been assigned, transferred or conveyed to any third party. We source the implantable microchip indirectly from a subsidiary of Raytheon Company, with which Hughes, then known as HE Holdings, Inc. was merged in 1997. However, we have no documentation that establishes our right to use the patented technology for human identification and security applications. Hughes, HID, any of their respective successors in interest, or any party to whom any of the foregoing parties may have assigned its rights under the 1994 license agreement may commence a claim against us asserting that we are violating its rights. If such a claim is successful, sales of our VeriMed, VeriGuard and VeriTrace systems could be enjoined, and we could be required to cease our efforts to create a market for these systems, until the patent expires in April 2008. In addition, we could be required to pay damages, which may be substantial. Regardless of whether any claimant is successful, we would face the prospect of the expenditure of funds in litigation, the diversion of management time and resources, damage to our reputation and the potential impairment in the marketability of our systems even after the expiration of the patent, which could harm our business and negatively affect our prospects. Even if our VeriMed system achieves some level of market acceptance, the anticipated significant and growing recurrent revenue from microchip-implanted persons’ subscribing to our database may not be realized. Our business model envisages that our VeriMed system will achieve some level of penetration within our target market for such system: the approximately 45 million at-risk people in the United States with cognitive impairment, chronic diseases and related conditions, or implanted medical devices. The model also anticipates our deriving significant and growing recurrent revenue from subscriptions to our database by persons implanted with our microchip. However, a person implanted with our microchip may decide not to subscribe to our database if, for example, the hospital emergency room where he or she would most likely be taken in an emergency maintains its own database. We do not currently anticipate that a significant percentage of VeriMed-adopting hospitals and other healthcare facilities will choose to provide databases for this purpose. However, future regulatory changes, such as in connection with the U.S. government’s efforts to address inefficiencies in the U.S. healthcare system related to information technology, could spur hospitals and other healthcare facilities to establish systems to maintain electronic health records. This might have the effect of reducing the number of people implanted with our microchip who might otherwise subscribe to our database which could, in turn, negatively affect the future revenue that we anticipate we will derive from the VeriMed system. We intend to offer two annual subscription levels to our database: basic, which will allow an individual to include personal identification and contact information, physician and emergency contact information, blood type and advance directives, and full-featured, which will allow an individual to include all information provided by the basic subscription as well as personal health records. Initially, we anticipate that individuals implanted with our microchip will take responsibility for inputting all of their information into our database, including personal health records, as physicians currently have little interest in being involved in this process – primarily because of liability concerns and because they are generally not paid for this service. Over time, we envision that persons implanted with our microchip may prevail upon their physicians to assist them with the inputting of information for which, by virtue of their medical training, physicians are better equipped to handle. If this does not occur, emergency room personnel and emergency medical technicians may lack confidence in the accuracy and completeness of implanted persons’ personal health records in the database. This may prompt some persons implanted with our microchip to choose to subscribe to our database only at the basic level, for which we plan to charge a lower annual fee. This could negatively affect the revenue we anticipate we will derive in the future from the VeriMed system. 35 Table of Contents We obtain the implantable microchip used in our VeriMed, VeriGuard and VeriTrace systems from a single supplier, making us vulnerable to supply disruptions that could constrain our sales of such systems and/or increase our per-unit cost of production of the microchip. At present, Digital Angel is our sole supplier of our implantable microchip under the terms of an agreement we entered into with Digital Angel in December 2005. Digital Angel, in turn, sources the microchip from Raytheon Microelectronics España, or RME, the actual manufacturer, under a supply agreement between Digital Angel and RME. The term of that agreement expires on June 30, 2010, subject to earlier termination by either party if, among other things, the other party breaches the agreement and does not remedy the breach within 30 days of receiving notice. Digital Angel and RME each own certain of the automated equipment and tooling used in the manufacture of the microchip. Accordingly, it would be difficult for Digital Angel to arrange for a third party other than RME to manufacture the implantable microchip if for any reason RME was unable to manufacture the implantable microchip or RME did not manufacture sufficient implantable microchips for Digital Angel to satisfy our requirements. Even if Digital Angel were able to arrange to have the implantable microchip manufactured in another facility, we currently believe making such arrangements and commencement of production could take at least three to six months. A supply disruption of this length could cause customers to cancel orders, negatively affect future sales and damage our business reputation. In addition, the per-unit cost of production at another facility could be more than the price per unit we pay to Digital Angel. If we do not meet the minimum purchase requirements under our agreement with Digital Angel, Digital Angel may sell implantable microchips for secure human identification applications to third parties. Our loss of this exclusive supply arrangement may result in our facing competition with respect to our implantable microchip-based systems, which could have a material adverse effect on the expected growth of our business. Our agreement with Digital Angel, under which we source our implantable microchip, includes a provision that Digital Angel may not sell to parties other than us and our resellers the implantable microchips, as well as the reader equipment, for secure human identification applications, provided we meet specified minimum purchase requirements. If we do not meet the minimum purchase requirements, Digital Angel is free to sell to other parties implantable microchips for secure human identification applications. The minimum purchase requirements for implantable microchips under the agreement are as follows: Year MinimumPurchaseRequirement 2007 $ 875,000 2008 $ 1,750,000 2009 $ 2,500,000 2010 $ 3,750,000 2011 and thereafter $ 3,750,000 For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, the aggregate amount of our purchases under our agreement with Digital Angel were $0.4 million and $0.7 million, respectively. If we lose the benefit of the exclusivity provision under our agreement with Digital Angel, we may face competition in the various target markets for our systems that use our implantable microchip, such as VeriMed, VeriGuard and VeriTrace, or face such competition at an earlier point in time than might otherwise have been the case, which could negatively affect our revenue, cash flows from operations, operating margins and profitability, as well as our growth prospects. 36 Table of Contents If Digital Angel were to terminate its agreement with us, we would not be able to obtain our implantable microchip. This would make it difficult to fulfill our expectations for future revenue and revenue growth from the sale of systems that use the implantable microchip. Provided we meet our minimum purchase requirements, our agreement with Digital Angel is scheduled to remain in force until the last of the patents covering the supplied products expire. However, Digital Angel can terminate the agreement upon the occurrence of any of the following events: • our default in the performance of any of our obligations under the agreement (e.g., our failure to take delivery and pay for products) that is not cured within 90 days of receiving written notice of the default; • either party to the agreement filing a petition in bankruptcy; or • a petition in bankruptcy is filed against us and is not discharged within 30 days. If the agreement were to be terminated, we would not be able to purchase our implantable microchip from Digital Angel. Further, if the termination occurred while the patents covering our implantable microchip remain in force, we could not obtain implantable microchips for secure human identification applications from any other source. As a result, we would not be able to sell our VeriMed system or any other products that incorporate our implantable microchip, such as our VeriGuard and VeriTrace systems. This would make it difficult for us to fulfill our expectations of future revenue and revenue growth from sales of such systems. Implantation of our implantable microchip may be found to cause risks to a person’s health, which could adversely affect sales of our systems which incorporate the implantable microchip. The implantation of our implantable microchip may be found, or be perceived, to cause risks to a person’s health. Potential or perceived risks include adverse tissue reactions, migration of the microchip and infection from implantation. As more people are implanted with our implantable microchip, it is possible that these and other risks to health will manifest themselves. Actual or perceived risks to a person’s health associated with the microchip implantation process could constrain our sales of the VeriMed system or result in costly and expensive litigation. Further, the potential resultant negative publicity could damage our business reputation, leading to loss in sales of our other systems targeted at the healthcare market which would harm our business and negatively affect our prospects. If we are required to effect a recall of our implantable microchip, our reputation could be materially and adversely affected and the cost of any such recall could be substantial, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. From time to time, implanted devices have become subject to recall due to safety, efficacy, product failures or other concerns. To date, we have not had to recall any of our implantable microchips. However, if, in the future, we are required to effect such a recall, the cost of the recall, and the likely related loss of system sales, could be substantial and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, any such recall could materially adversely affect our reputation and our ability to sell our systems that make use of the implantable microchip which would harm our business and negatively affect our prospects. Interruptions in access to, or the hacking into, our VeriMed patient information database may have a negative impact on our revenue, damage our reputation and expose us to litigation. Reliable access to the VeriMed patient information database is a key component of the functionality of our VeriMed system. Our ability to provide uninterrupted access to the database, whether operated by us or one or more third parties with whom we contract, will depend on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of the computer and communications systems involved. Although certain elements of technological, power, communications, personnel and site redundancy are maintained, the database may not be fully redundant. Further, the database may not function properly if certain necessary third-party systems fail, or if some other unforeseen act or natural disaster should occur. In the past, we have experienced short periods during which the database was inaccessible as a result of development work, system maintenance and power outages. Any disruption of the database services, computer systems or communications networks, or those of third parties that we rely on, could result in the inability of users to access the database for an indeterminate period of time. This, in turn, could cause us to lose the confidence of the healthcare community and persons who have undergone the microchip implant procedure, resulting in a loss of revenue and possible litigation. In addition, if the firewall software protecting the information contained in our database fails or someone is successful in hacking into the database, we could face damage to our business reputation and litigation. 37 Table of Contents Regulation of products and services that collect personally-identifiable information or otherwise monitor an individual’s activities may make the provision of our services more difficult or expensive and could jeopardize our growth prospects. Certain technologies that we currently, or may in the future, support are capable of collecting personally-identifiable information. A growing body of laws designed to protect the privacy of personally- identifiable information, as well as to protect against its misuse, and the judicial interpretations of such laws, may adversely affect the growth of our business. In the United States, these laws include the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, or HIPAA, the Federal Trade Commission Act, the Electronic Communications Privacy Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, as well as various state laws and related regulations. Although we are not a covered entity under HIPAA, we have entered into agreements with certain covered entities in which we are considered to be a “business associate” under HIPAA. As a business associate, we are required to implement policies, procedures and reasonable and appropriate security measures to protect individually identifiable health information we receive from covered entities. Our failure to protect health information received from customers could subject us to liability and adverse publicity, and could harm our business and impair our ability to attract new customers. In addition, certain governmental agencies, like the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and the Federal Trade Commission, have the authority to protect against the misuse of consumer information by targeting companies that collect, disseminate or maintain personal information in an unfair or deceptive manner. We are also subject to the laws of those foreign jurisdictions in which we operate, some of which currently have more protective privacy laws. If we fail to comply with applicable regulations in this area, our business and prospects could be harmed. Certain regulatory approvals generally must be obtained from the governments of the countries in which our foreign distributors sell our systems. However, any such approval may be subject to significant delays or may not be obtained. Any actions by regulatory agencies could materially and adversely affect our growth plans and the success of our business. If we fail to comply with anti-kickback and false claims laws, we could be subject to costly and time-consuming litigation and possible fines or other penalties. We are, or may become subject to, various federal and state laws designed to address healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. The federal anti-kickback statute prohibits the offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for referring items or services payable by Medicare, Medicaid or any other federally-funded healthcare program. This statute also prohibits remuneration in return for purchasing, leasing or ordering or arranging, or recommending the purchasing, leasing or ordering, of items or services payable by Medicare, Medicaid or any other federally-funded healthcare program. The anti-kickback laws of various states apply more broadly to prohibit remuneration in return for referrals of business payable by payers other than federal healthcare programs. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, for payment to third-party payers, including Medicare and Medicaid, which currently do not provide reimbursement for our microchip implant procedure, claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed, or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Our activities relating to the reporting of wholesale or estimated retail prices of our VeriMed system, the reporting of Medicaid rebate information, and other information affecting federal, state and third-party payment for the VeriMed system, will be subject to scrutiny under these laws. The anti-kickback statute and other fraud and abuse laws are very broad in scope, and many of their provisions have not been uniformly or definitively interpreted by existing case law or regulations. Violations of the anti-kickback statute and other fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from federal healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, which currently do not provide reimbursement for our microchip implant procedure. We have not been challenged by a governmental authority under any of these laws and believe that our operations are in compliance with such laws. However, because of the far-reaching nature of these laws, we may be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. Healthcare fraud and abuse regulations are complex and even minor, inadvertent irregularities in submissions can potentially give rise to claims that the statute has been violated. If we are found to have violated these laws, or are charged with violating them, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer, and our management team could be required to dedicate significant time addressing the actual or alleged violations. 38 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Continued Affiliation with Applied Digital and Digital Angel Applied Digital maintains significant voting control over us. This may delay, prevent or deter corporate actions that may be in the best interest of our stockholders. Applied Digital controls 60% of our outstanding common stock and 45.7% of our common stock on a fully-diluted basis. As a result, Applied Digital controls and may exercise significant influence over all matters requiring approval of our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of our Company even when such a change may be in the best interests of all our stockholders. It could also have the effect of depriving stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our Company or assets and might affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. Conflicts of interest may arise among Applied Digital, Digital Angel and us that could be resolved in a manner unfavorable to us. Questions relating to conflicts of interest may arise between Applied Digital, our parent company, and/or Digital Angel, a subsidiary of Applied Digital, on the one hand, and us, on the other, in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships. Three of our five directors serve as directors of Applied Digital. This includes Scott R. Silverman, our new chief executive officer, acting president and the chairman of our board of directors, who serves as the chairman of the board of Applied Digital and also as a director of Digital Angel. Areas in which conflicts of interest between or among Applied Digital, Digital Angel and us could arise include, but are not limited to, the following: Cross directorships and stock ownership. The equity interests of our directors in Applied Digital or service as a director of both Applied Digital and us could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest when directors are faced with decisions that could have different implications for the two companies. For example, these decisions could relate to, among other matters: • the nature, quality and cost of services rendered to us by Applied Digital; • the desirability of a potential acquisition or joint venture opportunity; • employee retention or recruiting; or • our dividend policy. Intercompany transactions. From time to time, Applied Digital or its affiliates, including Digital Angel, may enter into transactions with us or our subsidiaries or other affiliates. Although the terms of any such transactions will be established based upon negotiations between employees of Applied Digital and/or the applicable affiliate and us and, when appropriate, subject to the approval of the independent directors on our board or a committee of disinterested directors, there can be no assurance that the terms of any such transactions will be as favorable to us or our subsidiaries or affiliates as may otherwise be obtained in arm’s-length negotiations with an unaffiliated third party. Intercompany agreements. We have entered several agreements with Applied Digital, including: • a transition services agreement under which Applied Digital provides us certain management, administrative, accounting, tax, legal and other services; • a loan agreement; and • a tax allocation agreement setting forth Applied Digital’s and our rights and obligations with respect to the handling and allocation of taxes and related matters for all periods prior to the consummation of our initial public offering, which occurred on February 14, 2007. The terms of these agreements were established while we have been controlled by Applied Digital and were not the result of arm’s-length negotiations. In addition, conflicts could arise in the interpretation, or in connection with any extension or renegotiation, of these existing agreements. 39 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock We expect that our stock price will fluctuate significantly due to events and developments unique to our business or the healthcare industry generally. The stock market has from time to time experienced significant volatility. Factors that could cause volatility in the market price of our common stock include: • failure of any of our products, particularly our asset/staff location and identification system and our VeriMed system, to achieve commercial success; • FDA or international regulatory actions; • announcements of new products by our competitors; • market conditions in the healthcare sector; • litigation or public concern about the efficacy or safety of existing, new or potential products or technologies; • comments by securities analysts; and • rumors relating to us or our competitors. These and other factors may cause the market price sand demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of our common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. In addition, in the past, when the market price of our common stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit and the time and attention of our management may be diverted. Provisions of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our amended and restated bylaws could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and could make it more difficult for you to change management. Provisions of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. This is because these provisions may prevent or frustrate attempts by stockholders to replace or remove our current management or members of our board of directors. These provisions, among other things: • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which might otherwise allow holders of less than a majority of our outstanding shares of voting stock to elect one or more director candidates; • permit our board of directors to issue, without further action by our stockholders, up to 5,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock, with any rights, preferences and privileges as they may designate (including the right to approve an acquisition or other change in control); • establish advance notice procedures with respect to stockholder proposals and the nomination of candidates for election as directors, other than nominations made by or at the direction of our board of directors; • prohibit stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; and • provide that members of our board of directors may only be removed for cause by the affirmative vote of holders of at least a majority of the voting power of all then outstanding shares of capital stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class. 40 Table of Contents As a result, these provisions and others available under Delaware’s General Corporation Law could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We will need to dedicate significant time and expense to enhancing, documenting, testing and certifying our internal control over financial reporting. As a publicly-traded company, we are required to file annual and quarterly reports containing our financial statements within specified time periods. SEC rules will require that our chief executive officer and chief financial officer periodically provide certifications as to, among other things, the existence and effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In general, this process requires significant documentation of policies, procedures and controls, review of that documentation by our internal accounting staff, and testing of our internal controls by our internal accounting staff and our outside independent registered public accounting firm. Documentation and testing of our internal controls will involve considerable time and expense and may strain our internal resources. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place to help ensure that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated on a periodic basis. This Annual Report on Form 10-K does not include a report of management’s assessment regarding internal control over financial reporting or an attestation report of the Company’s registered public accounting firm due to a transition period established by rules of the SEC for newly public companies. We will have to include a report of management’s assessment regarding internal control over financial reporting, beginning with our annual report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. Assuming we do not become an accelerated filer by the time we file our annual report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2007, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be engaged to attest to management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting until our annual report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2008. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which could adversely affect our operating results, our ability to operate our business and our stock price. During the course of our testing of our internal controls, we may identify, and have to disclose, material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls that will have to be remediated. Implementing any appropriate changes to our internal controls may require specific compliance training of our directors, officers and employees, entail substantial costs in order to modify our existing accounting systems, and take a significant period of time to complete. Such changes may not, however, be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal controls, and any failure to maintain that adequacy, or consequent inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase our operating costs and could materially impair our ability to operate our business. In addition, investors’ perceptions that our internal controls are inadequate or that we are unable to produce accurate financial statements may negatively affect our stock price. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 