RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Operations The current global economic and financial crisis has and is likely to continue to adversely affect our business. The current global economic and financial crisis has led to high volatility and lack of liquidity in the global credit and other financial markets. Such recent downturns in the U.S. and global economies have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, decreased market valuations and liquidity, increased market volatility and a widespread reduction of business activity generally. These conditions have also limited the availability of credit and increased financial costs for companies around the world, including in Mexico and the United States. The volatility of the credit and capital markets can significantly affect our ability to access credit to finance our future projects, therefore adversely affecting our business. If the global economy continues to deteriorate and falls into an even deeper and longer lasting recession, or even a depression, our business and results of operations will continue to be adversely affected. Our revenues are highly dependent on levels of passenger and cargo traffic volumes and air traffic, which depend in part on factors beyond our control. Our revenues are closely linked to passenger and cargo traffic volumes and the number of air traffic movements at our airports. These factors directly determine our revenues from aeronautical services and indirectly determine our revenues from non-aeronautical services. Our principal source of aeronautical services revenues is passenger charges. Passenger charges are payable for each passenger (other than diplomats, infants and transfer and transit passengers) departing from the airport terminals we operate, and are collected by the airlines and paid to us. In 2006, 2007 and 2008, passenger charges represented 65.1%, 67.2% and 65.3%, respectively, of our total revenues. Passenger and cargo traffic volumes and air traffic movements depend in part on many factors beyond our control, including economic conditions in Mexico and the United States, the political situation in Mexico and elsewhere in the world, public health crises, the attractiveness of our airports relative to that of other competing airports, fluctuations in petroleum prices, disruptions of global debt markets and changes in regulatory policies applicable to the aviation industry. Any decreases in air traffic to or from our airports as a result of factors such as these could adversely affect our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. Negative economic developments in Mexico could reduce domestic passenger traffic at our airports, which would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Although a substantial portion of our revenues is derived from foreign tourism, Mexican domestic passengers in recent years have represented approximately two-thirds of the passenger traffic volume in our airports. In addition, all of our assets are located, and all of our operations are conducted, in Mexico. Because our revenues are largely dependent on the level of passenger traffic in our airports, any decline in domestic traffic related with an economic downturn in Mexico could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, prospects and financial conditions. 6 Mexico began to enter a recession in the fourth quarter of 2008, during which GDP fell by approximately 1.6% and inflation increased by 2.5%. According to the Mexican National Statistical, Geographic and Information Institute (INEGI), GDP fell by an additional 8.2% and inflation increased by an additional 1.0% in the first quarter of 2009. During these periods, we have observed a decrease in domestic travel, which has affected passenger traffic levels at our airports. For more information on the ongoing recession in Mexico see also “– Risks Related to Mexico – Adverse economic conditions in Mexico may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations” in this section and “Item 5, Recent Developments – Economic Downturn.” If the recession in Mexico worsens, if inflation or interest rates increase significantly or the Mexican economy is otherwise adversely impacted, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected because, among other things, domestic demand for transportation services may decrease. Our business could be adversely affected by the current economic downturn in the U.S. economy. The U.S. economy is currently in recession and continues to experience a substantial economic slowdown that has negatively impacted our results of operations, and may have an even greater impact going forward to the extent that the global economy falls into an even deeper and longer lasting recession. Because our revenues are largely dependent on the level of passenger traffic in our airports, any decline in domestic or international traffic related with the downturn in the U.S. economy could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, prospects and financial conditions. Our business is particularly influenced by trends in the United States relating to leisure travel, consumer spending and international tourism. In 2008, 34.3 % of the terminal passengers served by our airports arrived and departed on international flights, primarily to the United States. In the third and fourth quarters of 2008, according to the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis, the U.S. gross domestic product decreased at annualized rates of 0.5% and 6.2%, respectively, and in the first quarter of 2009, U.S. gross domestic product decreased at an annualized rate of 6.1%. The U.S. economic slowdown has resulted in a significant reduction in domestic and international passenger traffic to and from our airports, which has adversely affected our results of operations, and which we expect will continue to adversely affect our results of operations until the economic downturn shows signs of a recovery. Our revenues are highly dependent on levels of passenger and cargo traffic volumes and air traffic at our airports, which are highly sensitive to the impact on airlines of international petroleum prices and access to credit. Our revenues are closely linked to passenger and cargo traffic volumes and air traffic movements at our airports, which are determined by the operating levels of airlines at our airports. Airlines’ costs are highly sensitive to the price of petroleum and their access to credit to finance their operations, and increased costs may increase ticket prices and reduce fleets thereby decreasing flight frequencies and negatively impacting passenger and cargo traffic volumes. International petroleum prices have experienced significant volatility over the past year. The price of fuel may be subject to further fluctuations resulting from a reduction or increase in output of petroleum, voluntary or otherwise, by oil-producing countries, other market forces, a general increase in international hostilities, or any future terrorist attacks. Increases in airlines’ costs as a result of higher petroleum prices may lead to higher ticket prices, cancellations of routes, decreases in frequencies of flights and may decrease demand for air travel generally, which may reduce passenger and cargo traffic at our airports. 7 Most airlines also depend on reliable access to credit at interest rates they can afford to finance their fleet of aircraft and make other large investments. Due to the ongoing global recession and financial crisis, high interest rates and disruptions in the global debt markets have recently had an adverse effect on airlines’ ability to operate their fleets, forcing many to raise ticket prices, cancel routes, decrease the frequencies of flights or forego scheduled investments. Such reductions in operations by airlines has led to lower passenger and cargo traffic volumes at our airports, which has had an adverse impact on our result of operations. See “– The loss of one or more of our key customers could result in a loss of a significant amount of our revenues” below for a more detailed description of which of our major airline customers have recently reduced or cancelled operations at our airports. Our business is highly dependent upon revenues from four of our airports and could be adversely impacted by any condition affecting those airports. In 2008, approximately 80.2% of our revenues were generated from four of our 12 airports. The following table lists the percentage of total revenues generated at our airports in that year: Airport For year ended December 31, 2008 Guadalajara International Airport 33.3% Tijuana International Airport 13.3% Puerto Vallarta International Airport 16.8% Los Cabos International Airport 16.8% Eight other airports 19.8% Total 100.0% 8 As a result of the substantial contribution to our revenues from these four airports, any event or condition affecting these airports could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. Competition from other tourist destinations could adversely affect our business. The principal factor affecting our results of operations and business is the number of passengers using our airports. The number of passengers using our airports (particularly our Los Cabos International Airport and our Puerto Vallarta International Airport) may vary as a result of factors beyond our control, including the level of tourism in Mexico. In addition, our passenger traffic volume may be adversely affected by the attractiveness, affordability and accessibility of competing tourist destinations in Mexico, such as Cancún and Acapulco, or elsewhere, such as Puerto Rico, Florida, Cuba, Jamaica, the Dominican Republic and other Caribbean islands and destinations in Central America. The attractiveness of the destinations we serve is also likely to be affected by perceptions of travelers as to the safety and political and social stability of Mexico. There can be no assurance that tourism levels, and therefore the number of passengers using our airports, in the future will match or exceed current levels, and a reduction in tourism to the destinations served by our airports could directly and indirectly affect our revenues from aeronautical and non-aeronautical services, respectively. International events, including acts of terrorism, wars and global epidemics, could have a negative impact on international air travel. International events such as the terrorist attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001, wars such as the one in Iraq and public health crises such as the current Influenza A/H1N1 epidemic have negatively affected the frequency and pattern of air travel worldwide in recent years. As with all airport operators, we are subject to the threat of terrorist attacks. The terrorist attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001 had a severe adverse impact on the air travel industry, particularly on U.S. carriers and on carriers operating international service to and from the United States. Airline traffic in the United States fell precipitously after the attacks. Our terminal passenger volumes declined 1.4% in 2001 and an additional 5.3% in 2002 (in each case as compared to the prior year). Any future terrorist attacks, whether or not involving aircraft, will likely adversely affect our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. Moreover, we cannot predict what effect any future terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on the United States or any retaliatory measures taken by the United States in response to these events may have on the U.S. economy or leisure travel trends, which may negatively affect our results of operations. Since late April 2009, Mexico, as well as several other countries, has been affected by an outbreak of Influenza A/H1N1. As a result of the outbreak, a number of countries, including the United States, Great Britain and France, as well as the European Union advised against nonessential travel to Mexico, although these advisories had been lifted as of May 15, 2009. In early May 2009 at least four countries (Argentina, Cuba, Ecuador and Peru) had temporarily suspended all flights to Mexico, all of which have now been restored. In addition, a larger number of countries have imposed restrictions on travelers and cargo arriving from Mexico. Furthermore, the Mexican government ordered the cancellation of all public events and the closure of most museums and other tourist attractions from April 24 to May 5, 2009. As a result of this and other regulations imposed by the government, both domestic travel within Mexico, and therefore, our domestic passenger traffic, and international passenger traffic declined substantially during this period. As a result of these declines, our results of operations have been adversely affected, and we expect that they may continue to be adversely affected until the scope of the Influenza A/H1N1 outbreak is reduced and the public perceives that it is again safe to travel to the destinations served by our airports. Moreover, we have also been required by Mexican authorities to undertake certain safety measures at our airports to prevent the further spread of Influenza A/H1N1, which may further deter passengers from traveling and increase our cost of operation. For more information on the Influenza A/H1N1, please see “Item 5, Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Recent Developments – Influenza A/H1N1.” 9 Because our revenues are largely dependent on the level of passenger traffic in our airports, any general increase of hostilities relating to reprisals against terrorist organizations, further armed conflict around the world, outbreaks of health epidemics or other events of general international concern (and any related economic impact of such events) could result in decreased passenger traffic and increased costs to the air travel industry and, as a result, could cause a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. If a change in relations with our labor force should occur, such a change could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Although we currently believe we maintain good relations with our labor force, if any conflicts with our employees were to arise in the future, including with our unionized employees (which accounted for approximately 51.0% of our total employees as of December 31, 2008), resulting events such as strikes or other disruptions that could arise with respect to our workforce could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Security enhancements have resulted in increased costs and may expose us to greater liability. The air travel business is susceptible to, and has experienced, increased costs resulting from enhanced security and higher insurance. Following the events of September 11, 2001, we reinforced security at our airports. While enhanced security at our airports has not resulted in a significant increase in our operating costs to date, we may be required to adopt additional security measures in the future. In addition, our general liability insurance premiums for 2002 and 2003 increased substantially relative to our 2001 premiums, and we cannot predict whether there may be additional increases in the future. In 2004, our aggregate insurance cost was more than double our aggregate insurance cost for 2001. Since August 1, 2003, we have carried a Ps. 500 million insurance policy covering damages to our property resulting from terrorist acts. Since January 2003, we have carried an insurance policy covering personal and property damages to third parties resulting from terrorist acts. The coverage provided by this policy was initially U.S.$ 10 million, but was increased to U.S.$ 150 million in 2007. Because our insurance policies do not cover all losses and liabilities resulting from war or from terrorism, we could incur significant costs if we were to be directly affected by events of this nature. Any such increase in our operating costs would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The users of airports, principally airlines, have been subject to increased costs since the events of September 11, 2001. Airlines have been required to adopt additional security measures and may be required to comply with more rigorous security rules or guidelines in the future. Premiums for aviation insurance have increased substantially and could escalate further. While governments in other countries have agreed to indemnify airlines for liabilities they might incur resulting from terrorist attacks, the Mexican government has not done so and has given no indication of any intention to do the same. In addition, fuel prices, supplies and interest rates for airlines’ aircraft lease agreements, which constitute a significant cost for airlines using our airports, may be subject to increases resulting from any future terrorist attacks, a general increase in international hostilities or a reduction in output of fuel, voluntary or otherwise, by oil producing countries. Such increases in airlines’ costs have resulted in higher airline ticket prices and decreased demand for air travel generally, thereby having an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. In addition, because a substantial majority of our international flights involve travel to the United States, we may be required to comply with security directives of the U.S. Federal Aviation Authority, in addition to the directives of Mexican aviation authorities. 10 In 2005, the Mexican government issued a policy letter (carta de política) calling for all checked baggage on international commercial flights beginning in January 2006, and on domestic commercial flights beginning in July 2006, to undergo a new comprehensive screening process. Because of uncertainty over the policy letter’s implementation, the new screening process has been delayed. In particular, the policy letter does not specify which parties should bear responsibility for the new screening process. Although the Mexican Airport Law specifies that airlines bear the responsibility for baggage screening, the fact that the policy letter is silent as to responsibility has caused some of our airline customers to contend that the policy letter’s intent is for airport concessionaires, such as us, to bear responsibility for the new screening process. In addition, certain questions have been raised regarding the constitutionality of the new screening process. The Mexican Bureau of Civil Aviation is expected to issue regulations implementing the policy letter, but these may not address the questions of responsibility and constitutionality that have been raised. The new process is expected to require the installation of new screening equipment and that baggage be checked manually if the equipment signals the potential presence of prohibited items. Although we will purchase and install the new baggage screening equipment in 2009 for which we will incur significant capital expenditures, we will not operate the screening systems, because we believe this to be the responsibility of our airline customers under the Mexican Airport Law. However, we would operate the screening systems once we reach a written agreement with our airline costumers regarding the allocation of cost and responsibility. If we are required to operate the new screening systems, our exposure to liability could increase. We expect to incur ongoing expenses to maintain the equipment we have purchased, which could restrict our liquidity and adversely affect our results of operations. Our revenues and profitability may not increase if we fail in our business strategy. Our ability to increase our revenues and profitability depends in part on our business strategy, which consists of setting prices in order to be as close as possible to our regulatory maximum rates for any given year, reducing operating costs, increasing passenger and cargo traffic at our airports and increasing revenues from commercial activities. Our ability to increase our commercial revenues is significantly dependent, among other factors, upon increasing passenger traffic at our airports and our ability to renegotiate rental agreements with our tenants to provide for contractual terms more favorable to us. Our ability to increase revenues from commercial activities is also dependent on our ability to continue the remodeling and modernization of the commercial areas we operate within our airports. We cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in implementing our strategy of increasing our passenger traffic or our revenues from commercial activities. The passenger traffic volume in our airports depends on factors beyond our control, such as the attractiveness of the commercial, industrial and tourist centers that the airports serve. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the passenger traffic volume in our airports will increase or that our profitability will increase. 11 The loss of one or more of our key customers could result in a loss of a significant amount of our revenues. Consorcio Aeroméxico, S.A. de C.V., or Consorcio Aeroméxico (controlled by the Mexican government until October 2007), a holding company that owns Aeroméxico and Aeroméxico Connect (formerly Aerolitoral); Grupo Mexicana (controlled by the Mexican government until December 2005), a holding company that owns Mexicana, Click Mexicana and Mexicana Link; and Concesionaria Vuela Compañía de Aviación, S.A. de C.V., or Volaris, accounted for 15.1%, 12.3% and 10.2%, respectively, of the total revenues generated in our airports in 2008. During the same period, several airlines discontinued operations at our airports due to insolvency or suspension by the regulatory authorities, including Aerolíneas Mesoamericanas, S.A. de C.V., or Alma, Aero California, S.A. de C.V., or Aerocalifornia, Grupo Avolar, S.A. de C.V., or Avolar, and Aladia Airlines, S.A. de C.V., or Aladia, which accounted for 2.4%, 4.2%, 4.1% and 0.1%, respectively, of the total revenues generated in our airports in 2007. None of our contracts with our airline customers obligate them to continue providing service to our airports, and we can offer no assurance that, if any of our key customers reduced their use of our airports, competing airlines would add flights to their schedules to replace any flights no longer handled by our principal airline customers. In 2008, the passenger charges that we invoiced to airlines were generally collected, on a weighted average basis, approximately 75 to 86 days following the invoice delivery date. The actual term for payment generally is dependent upon interest rates on short-term Mexican treasury bills, or Cetes, with longer payment periods during periods of lower interest rates (within a defined range). Except to a certain extent under a new passenger charges agreement with Volaris (see “Item 4, Business Overview – Our Sources of Revenues – Passenger Charges”), our revenues from passenger charges are not secured by a bond or any other collateral. Thus, in the event of any such insolvency or suspension of operations by an airline, we would not be assured of collecting any amounts invoiced to that airline in respect of passenger charges, which could negatively affect our cash flows from operations or our results of operations. The principal domestic airlines operating at our airports have in the past refused to pay certain increases in our specific prices for aeronautical services and could refuse to pay additional increases in the future. From 2000 to mid-2003, the principal domestic airlines operating at our 12 airports—Aeroméxico, Mexicana, Aeromar and Aeroméxico Connect—refused to pay certain increases in the specific prices we charge for aeronautical services. On August 31, 2003 (the date on which the balance reached its peak), the amount of invoiced fees subject to dispute was Ps. 47.0 million. As part of this dispute, these airlines brought proceedings challenging the privatization of the Mexican airport sector and the methodology for calculating the maximum rate system applicable under the privatization of all of the airport groups in Mexico. On July 15, 2003, we entered into an agreement with the National Air Transportation Chamber of Commerce (Cámara Nacional de Aerotransportes) and the Ministry of Communications and Transportation pursuant to which we resolved existing disputes with our principal airline customers and established specific prices for aeronautical services applicable to those airlines for 2003 and 2004 and a methodology for retroactively applying those prices from 2000, since these airlines had refused to pay certain of our charges since that year. In March 2005, we entered into a renewal agreement with the National Air Transportation Chamber of Commerce for 2005 and 2006. The National Air Transportation Chamber of Commerce agreed to cause our principal airline customers to enter into (a) contracts governing charges for aeronautical services, (b) lease contracts for property used by the airlines and (c) contracts governing collection of passenger charges. As of December 31, 2005, these airlines had entered into agreements with us such that proceedings against us were either resolved or dismissed and no fees remained subject to further dispute. These agreements represented (a) virtually all of the relevant contracts governing the collection of passenger charges, (b) a substantial majority of the agreements for the leasing of space in our terminals and (c) a substantial majority of the contracts governing our aeronautical services, in each case in terms of the total number agreements to be entered into. In December 2006, we entered into a renewal agreement with the National Air Transportation Chamber of Commerce for 2007, 2008 and 2009, covering the same aspects as the prior agreement as well as incorporating an increase in passenger charges. This renewal agreement is more focused on the support and development of, and increased frequencies on, new routes. 12 Because these airlines contribute a majority of our revenues, should the airlines refuse to make payment pursuant to the agreements described above, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. Moreover, because of the current economic downturn, the airlines that generally operate at our airports may be more likely to resist increases in our charges for aeronautical services in future years, which could adversely impact our result of operations. The airlines at our airports may refuse to continue collecting passenger charges on our behalf or we may decide to collect passenger charges ourselves, which would result in increased costs for us. We collect a passenger charge for each departing passenger on an aircraft (other than diplomats, infants and transfer and transit passengers). Currently, we have entered into collection agreements with the airlines that operate at our airports to collect those passenger charges on our behalf. As a result, passenger charges are automatically included in the cost of a passenger’s ticket and we issue invoices for those charges to each airline. For more information on these collection agreements see “Item 4, Business Overview – Our Sources of Revenues – Aeronautical Services – Passenger Charges.” We and the airlines with which we have these collection agreements have the right to cancel them with prior notice to the other party. If we or one of our airline customers were to cancel a collection agreement, we would have to implement a collection system of our own to collect these charges from passengers. The installation and operation of such a collection system would result in additional costs for us, which would negatively impact our results of operations. The operations of our airports may be disrupted due to the actions of third parties, which are beyond our control. As is the case with most airports, the operation of our airports is largely dependent on the services of third parties, such as air traffic control authorities, airlines and ground transportation providers. We also depend upon the Mexican government or entities of the government for provision of services, such as electricity, supply of fuel to aircraft, air traffic control, immigration and customs services for our international passengers. Additionally, the disruption or stoppage of taxi or bus services at one or more of our airports could also adversely affect our operations. We are not responsible for and cannot control the services provided by these parties. Any disruption in, or adverse consequence resulting from, their services, including a work stoppage or other similar event, may have a material adverse effect on the operation of our airports and on our results of operations. In addition, we are dependent on third-party providers of certain complementary services such as catering and baggage handling. If these service providers were to halt operations at any of our airports, we would be required to seek a new service provider or provide services ourselves, either of which would likely result in increased capital expenditures or costs and have an adverse impact on our cash generation and results of operations. 13 Actions by the former holders of land comprising Tijuana International Airport may limit our ability to expand the airport and may disrupt its operations. A portion of the land comprising the Tijuana International Airport was expropriated by the Mexican government in 1970 pursuant to its power of eminent domain. Prior to its expropriation, the land had been held by a group of individuals through a system of communal ownership of rural land known as an ejido. The former ejido participants have asserted indemnity claims against the Mexican government challenging the 1970 expropriation decree. Our Tijuana airport subsidiary has been joined in the proceedings, but only as an interested third party. During 2008, the ejido received an unfavorable ruling, which it appealed, and subsequently, received a judgment in its favor. The current judgment calls for the restitution of 320 hectares of land, although the precise area affected has yet to be assessed. Depending on which particular area is to be restituted, this could affect the airport’s perimeter and could materially disrupt the airport’s current operations. We have contested this latest ruling in a second appeal, the outcome of which is currently pending. Certain of the former ejido participants are currently occupying portions of the property on which we operate Tijuana International Airport that are not at present essential to the airport’s operations. Although these persons are not currently interfering with the airport’s operations, their presence could limit our ability to expand the airport into the areas they occupy. In addition, there can be no assurance that the former ejido participants will not seek to disrupt the airport’s operations if their legal claims against the Mexican government are not resolved to their satisfaction, which may negatively impact our results of operations. We may be liable for property tax claims asserted against us by certain municipalities. Real estate tax claims have been asserted against us by the municipal authorities of Mexicali, Tijuana, Aguascalientes, Puerto Vallarta and Hermosillo for the payment of property taxes with respect to the property on which we operate our airports in those cities, and similar claims have been and may be asserted by other municipal authorities where we operate our airports. We believe that the Mexican government, as the owner of the property upon which we operate our airports, would be responsible for paying these taxes directly if a court were to determine that these taxes must be paid in response to any future proceedings. See “Item 8, Financial Information – Legal Proceedings – Property tax claims by certain municipalities” for a full discussion of these property tax proceedings. If the court issues an adverse final decision obligating us to pay such property taxes and any amounts owed were substantial, these tax liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. A claim against us by a construction company relating to work at the Guadalajara airport could have a negative resolution. In August 2005, we entered into a construction contract with Grupo de Ingeniería Universal, S.A. de C.V., or GIUSA, for the development of a new segment of the Guadalajara International Airport’s apron. GIUSA delayed the project, and we therefore executed the performance bond posted by GIUSA in an amount equal to 20% of the total contract value. However, we were not able to obtain such execution, because GIUSA initiated legal proceedings against us in September 2006, claiming breach of contract and seeking the full contract amount and additional damages, for a total of Ps. 43 million. During 2007, we obtained a favorable sentence in the first instance, which was appealed by GIUSA. The appeal also resulted in a favorable sentence for the Company in 2008. As a result, GIUSA filed a second appeal against the sentence, which is currently pending resolution. An adverse resolution of these proceedings could result in a monetary judgment that could have a negative impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 14 The actions of squatters on certain portions of the land on which our Guadalajara International Airport operates could disrupt operations and security at that airport. The Mexican government owns the land on which the Guadalajara International Airport operates and has granted us the right to use that land for the purpose of operating the airport pursuant to our concession. Currently, there are squatters residing on or claiming rights to a portion of the property, at least one of whom has attempted to subdivide and sell off certain portions of the property. As owner of the property, the Mexican government must initiate any actions directed at removing these persons from the property. We are reviewing the actions these persons have taken and are cooperating with the Mexican government to ensure that the actions of these squatters do not adversely affect the operations of the Guadalajara International Airport. However, if the Mexican government or we are unable to successfully remove these persons from the property, their presence could have an adverse impact on our operations and security at the airport and could restrict our ability to expand our operations at the airport. Our business could be adversely affected by the penalty imposed by the Mexican tax authority on some of our airports. The Mexican tax authority (Servicio de Administración Tributaria, or SAT), in connection with its review of year 2005, sent us official notices in 2008 and 2009 stating that, under its criteria, the fiscal amortization rate used for each of the Aguascalientes and Mexicali airports’ concession values was incorrect. We initiated legal proceedings in federal tax tourt against the Aguascalientes SAT’s local offices in April 2009 to challenge SAT’s findings, based on our contention that SAT did not take into consideration all the relevant legal matters concerning the Company’s position on amortization. If the tax court determines that the airports are in violation, those airports would be required to modify their tax calculations since 2005, which could negatively affect our net income. Risks Related to the Regulation of Our Business We provide a public service regulated by the Mexican government and our flexibility in managing our aeronautical activities is limited by the regulatory environment in which we operate. Our aeronautical fees charged to airlines and passengers are regulated, like those of most airports in other countries. In 2006, 2007 and 2008, approximately 81.4%, 80.9% and 79.1%, respectively, of our total revenues were earned from aeronautical services, which are subject to price regulation under our maximum rates. These regulations may limit our flexibility in operating our aeronautical activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. In addition, several of the regulations applicable to our operations that affect our profitability are authorized (as in the case of our master development programs) or established (as in the case of our maximum rates) by the Ministry of Communications and Transportation for five-year terms. Except under limited circumstances, we generally do not have the unilateral ability to change our obligations (such as the investment obligations under our master development programs or the obligation under our concessions to provide a public service) or increase our maximum rates applicable under those regulations should our passenger traffic or other assumptions on which the regulations were based change during the applicable term. In addition, there can be no assurance that this price regulation system will not be amended in a manner that would cause additional sources of our revenues to be regulated. We cannot predict how the regulations governing our business will be applied. Many of the laws, regulations and instruments that regulate our business were adopted or became effective in 1999, and there is only a limited history that would allow us to predict the impact of these legal requirements on our future operations. In addition, although Mexican law establishes ranges of sanctions that might be imposed should we fail to comply with the terms of one of our concessions, the Mexican Airport Law (Ley de Aeropuertos) and its regulations or other applicable law, we cannot predict the sanctions that are likely to be assessed for a given violation within these ranges. We cannot provide assurance that we will not encounter difficulties in complying with these laws, regulations and instruments. 15 We cannot predict how our Master Development Program and our maximum rates for the next five-year period (from 2010 to 2014) will be finally determined by the Ministry of Communications and Transportations. The Ministry of Communications and Transportations may be solicited by other regulatory entities or influenced by political forces adverse to our interests. We also cannot provide assurance that other regulatory agencies or the Mexican legislature will not impose regulations adverse to our operations in the future. There can be no assurance that the laws and regulations governing our business, including the Master Development Program and the maximum rate-setting process and the Mexican Airport Law, will not change in the future or be applied or interpreted in a way that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The regulations pursuant to which the maximum rates applicable to our aeronautical revenues are established do not guarantee that we or any of our airports will be profitable. The system of price regulation applicable to our airports establishes an annual maximum rate for each airport, which is the maximum annual amount of revenues per work load unit (which is equal to one terminal passenger or 100 kilograms (220 pounds) of cargo) that we may earn at that airport from services subject to price regulation. The maximum rates for our airports have been determined for each year through 2009. For a discussion of the framework for establishing our maximum rates and the application of these rates, see “