Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2013, and information we provide in our press releases, telephonic reports and other investor communications, may contain forward-looking statements with respect to anticipated future events and our projected financial performance, operations and competitive position that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements and our expectations. Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact revenue, profitability, and growth remain difficult to predict. The factors underlying our forecasts and forward-looking statements are dynamic and subject to change. As a result, any forecasts or forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are given and do not necessarily reflect our outlook at any other point in time. Risks Relating to Our Business We will need additional capital in the future to fund our business, and financing may not be available. We expect our currently available capital resources and cash flows from operations to be insufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements. Our cash requirements will depend on numerous factors, including the amount of our sales, the timing and levels of products purchased, pricing, payment terms and credit limits from manufacturers, the availability and terms of asset-based credit facilities, the timing and level of our accounts receivable collections, and our ability to manage our business towards profitability. We expect to need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings or enter into new asset-based or other credit facilities, but such financings will likely dilute our stockholders. Although we have recently entered into a loan and security agreement with Alpha Capital Anstalt (the “Lender”) and Collateral Services, LLC for the Lender’s provision of financing for one year, against our accounts receivable and inventory, the loans to be made by the Lender are discretionary, they are based upon our accounts receivable and inventory and we must comply with certain conditions in order to obtain funding and therefore, there can be no assurance that such loans will be made. The Equity Purchase Agreement that we entered into with Southridge Partners II, LP (“Southridge”) on January 23, 2014 (the “Equity Purchase Agreement”) also contains conditions that must be met prior to funding and therefore there can be no assurance that such conditions will be met when funding is needed. We cannot assure you that any additional financing that we may need will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. Our loss of S-3 eligibility in September 2012 due to our Nasdaq delisting and limited availability of authorized and unissued common stock may make it more difficult to raise such funds. In addition, on July 19, 2013 we announced the termination of the agreement and plan of merger which contemplated a merger in which CBD Energy Limited (“CBD”) would become our parent company. This event may diminish our access to additional financing. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to take advantage of business opportunities, develop new products or otherwise respond to competitive pressures. In any such case, our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. If we default on our secured loan with the Lender, we could lose all of our assets Our loan and security agreement with the Lender and Collateral Services, LLC is secured by all of our assets. The agreement contains both affirmative and negative covenants, including covenants regarding incurrence of indebtedness, liens, mergers and acquisitions, subject to materiality and other qualifications and exceptions customary for a credit facility of this size and type. Our obligations under the agreement may be accelerated upon the occurrence of an event of default in accordance with the terms of the Agreement, which includes customary events of default, including payment defaults, the inaccuracy of representations or warranties, cross-defaults related to material indebtedness, bankruptcy and insolvency related defaults, defaults relating to certain other matters, and loss of perfected lien status. If we fail to comply with these covenants or if we fail to make certain payments under the secured loans when due, the Lender could declare our loans in default. If we default on the loan, the Lender has the right to seize our assets that secure the loan, which would force us to suspend all operations. We have a history of losses and there can be no assurance that we will generate or sustain positive earnings. For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, we had a net loss of $2,830,047 and $8,622,393, respectively. We cannot be certain that our business strategy will ever be successful. Our likelihood of success must be considered in light of the problems, expenses, difficulties, complications and delays frequently encountered in connection with any emerging business operations. If we fail to address any of these risks or difficulties adequately, our business will likely suffer. Future revenues and profits, if any, will depend upon various factors, including the success, if any, of our expansion plans, marketability of our instruments and services, our ability to maintain favorable relations with manufacturers and customers, and general economic conditions. There is no assurance that we can operate profitably or that we will successfully implement our plans. There can be no assurance that we will ever generate positive earnings. Our financial statements had been prepared assuming that we will continue as a going concern. Our significant operating losses, negative cash flow from operations, and challenges in rapidly securing alternative sources of supply for solar panels, raise substantial uncertainty about our ability to continue as a going concern. The consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty, and contemplate the realization of assets and the settlement of liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 included an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern in their audit report included herein. If we cannot generate the required revenues and gross margin to achieve profitability or obtain additional capital on acceptable terms, we will need to substantially revise our business plan or cease operations and an investor could suffer the loss of a significant portion or all of his investment in our company. As a result of our delisting from the Nasdaq Capital Market in September 2012, we are no longer eligible to file new registration statements on Form S-3, which may make it more costly and more difficult for us to obtain additional equity financing. We currently anticipate that we will retain all of our earnings, if any, for development of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on common stock in the foreseeable future. We are dependent upon our solar panel suppliers for regular shipments of products; however we have not been timely in payment to them in recent periods, which has resulted in disruption in our supply of products. If we do not quickly establish replacement sources of supply, our operations will be further adversely affected. Historically, we obtained virtually all of our solar panels from Suntech and Lightway. During 2012, because of our cash position and liquidity constraints, we were late in making payments to both of these suppliers. On March 30, 2012, pursuant to our Supply Agreement with Lightway, we issued 1,900,000 shares of our common stock to Lightway in partial payment of our past due account payable to them. At the time of issuance, the shares were valued at $1,045,000. On May 1, 2012, Suntech filed a complaint for breach of contract, goods sold and delivered, account stated and open account against us in the Superior Court of the State of California, County of San Francisco. Suntech alleged that it delivered products and did not receive full payment from us. On July 31, 2012, we and Suntech entered into a settlement of this dispute. Because of our inability to make scheduled settlement payments, on March 15, 2013, Suntech entered a judgment against us in the amount of $946,438. As of December 31, 2013, Suntech has not sought to enforce its judgment. As of December 31, 2013, we have included in accounts payable on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets a balance due to Suntech America of $946,438. We currently have no unshipped orders from Suntech or Lightway. In May 2013, we entered into a new supply agreement for assembly of our proprietary modules with Environmental Engineering Group Pty Ltd (“EEG”), an assembler of polycrystalline modules located in Australia. In August 2013, we began receiving product from EEG and began shipping product to customers during the third calendar quarter of 2013. In September 2013, we entered into a second supply agreement for assembly of our proprietary modules with Tianwei New Energy Co, Ltd., (Tianwei) a panel supplier located in China. We began receiving product from Tianwei in February 2014. Although we believe we can find alternative suppliers for solar panels manufactured to our specifications, our operations would be disrupted unless we are able to rapidly secure alternative sources of supply, our inventory and revenue could diminish significantly, causing disruption to our operations. 10 Table of Contents We are dependent upon our key suppliers for the components used in our systems and we must arrange for cost competitive manufacturing of our proprietary solar panels in order to grow our business; our suppliers are dependent upon the continued availability and pricing of silicon and other raw materials used in solar modules. Historically, we obtained virtually all of our solar panels from Suntech and Lightway. During 2012, because of our cash position and liquidity constraints, we were late in making payments to both of these suppliers. We currently have no unshipped orders from Suntech or Lightway. In May 2013, we entered into a new supply agreement for assembly of our proprietary modules with Environmental Engineering Group Pty Ltd (“EEG”), an assembler of polycrystalline modules located in Australia. In August 2013, we began receiving product from EEG and began shipping product to customers during the third calendar quarter of 2013. In September 2013, we entered into a second supply agreement for assembly of our proprietary modules with Tianwei, a panel supplier located in China. We began receiving product from Tianwei beginning in February 2014. It is critical to the growth of our revenue that our products be high quality while offered at competitive pricing. We believe that we will need to reduce the unit production cost of our products over time to obtain and maintain our ability to offer competitively priced products. Our ability to achieve cost reductions will depend on our ability to maintain favorable supplier contracts and to increase sales volumes so we can achieve economies of scale. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to achieve any such production cost reductions. If we fail to negotiate better terms and maintain our relationships with our current suppliers or develop new supplier relationships, we may not achieve production cost reductions necessary to competitively price our products, which could adversely affect or limit our sales and growth. We are currently subject to market prices for the components that we purchase, which are subject to fluctuation beyond our control. An increase in the price of components used in our systems could result in an increase in costs to our customers and could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and demand for our products. Interruptions in our ability to procure needed components for our systems, whether due to discontinuance by our suppliers, delays or failures in delivery, shortages caused by inadequate production capacity or unavailability, financial failure, manufacturing quality, or for other reasons, would adversely affect or limit our sales and growth. There is no assurance that we will continue to find qualified manufacturers on acceptable terms and, if we do, there can be no assurance that product quality will continue to be acceptable, which could lead to a loss of sales and revenues. The U.S. Government imposed tariffs on solar panels manufactured in China causing the prices we pay for solar panels to increase. This could cause customer demand for our products to decrease. In early 2012, a group of solar panel manufacturers with domestic U.S. production facilities requested the U.S. Government to impose tariffs on the import of solar panels manufactured in China, based on allegations of unfair competition and of subsidization of prices for Chinese-made solar panels by the Chinese Government. In March 2012, the United States Commerce Department issued a preliminary decision imposing tariffs between 2.9% and 4.73%. In May 2012, a further decision by the Commerce Department was issued providing for a provisional tariff averaging 31% on 61 Chinese manufacturers caused by “dumping” solar panels into the U.S. market at prices below their actual cost. On October 11, 2012, the Commerce Department announced its final decision on these tariffs affirming its preliminary findings that modules containing cells of Chinese origin are subject to anti-dumping and countervailing duties (AD/CVD) when imported into the United States. The AD rates to be applied at the border range from 7.78% to 21.19% for participating respondents and up to 239.42% for non-participants. The CVD rates range from 14.78 to 15.97%. The AD and CVD rates will be applied collectively. The final step in the proceedings occurred on November 7, 2012, when the International Trade Commission (ITC) rendered a final affirmative injury determination concluding that the subject Chinese imports caused injury to U.S. manufacturers of crystalline-silicon solar cells and modules. The ITC also decided that the AD and CVD duties should not apply retroactively and rendered a negative "critical circumstances" determination. Thus, the effective dates were March 26, 2012 for CVD duties and May 25, 2012 for AD duties. Given the large current market share of solar panels manufactured in China, the imposition of these tariffs will have had far reaching, industry-wide effects, and have been disruptive to many established supply relationships. In fact, the imposition of these tariffs have caused prices for solar power systems in the United States to increase and resulted in reduced market demand for the purchase of solar power systems. On December 31, 2013, SolarWorld America Industries, Inc. requested the U.S. Government to impose tariffs on the import of solar panels manufactured in China with Taiwanese solar cells, based on allegations of unfair competition and of subsidization of prices by the Chinese Government. In February 2014, the U.S. International Trade Commission declared in a unanimous preliminary determination that imports of Chinese panels made with Taiwanese solar cells injure the domestic manufacturing industry. The trade case next moves to the U.S. Commerce Department, which is expected in late March 2014 to make a preliminary determination on anti-subsidy duties for Chinese products. Then in June 2014, the Commerce Department is scheduled to make a preliminary determination on anti-dumping duties for China and Taiwan. If the Commerce Department imposes the preliminary duties, the U.S. International Trade Commission could act about a year from now to make the tariffs final. Our historical solar panel suppliers, Suntech and Lightway, both manufactured panels for us in China. As a result, aggregate AD and CVD duties of 30.66% (for Lightway) and 35.97% (for Suntech) were imposed on our purchases. The resulting increase in our product prices harmed our competitive position in selling our products, and adversely affected our results of operations. Our new supply agreement with Tianwei provides for solar modules manufactured in China with Taiwanese solar cells. Based on the outcome of the most recent investigation launched on December 31, 2013, the impositions of tariffs could be imposed that could cause prices for solar power systems in the United States to increase and result in reduced market demand for the purchase of solar power systems. We have experienced significant customer concentration in recent periods, and our revenue levels could be adversely affected if any significant customer fails to purchase products from us at anticipated levels. The relative magnitude and the mix of revenue from our largest customers have varied significantly quarter to quarter, but have been concentrated on a small number of large customers. During the last two years, four customers have accounted for a significant portion of our revenues: Sustainable Environmental Enterprises (SEE), a leading provider of renewable energy and development projects located in New Orleans, Louisiana, Lennox International Inc. (Lennox), a global leader in the heating and air conditioning markets, Lowe’s Companies, Inc. (Lowe’s), a nationwide home improvement retail chain, and Lennar Corporation (Lennar), a leading national homebuilder. Through 2013, Lennar had historically only ordered solar power systems from us for installation on 234 new homes, which was below their 600 home order commitment volume. No further orders have been received from Lennar since April 25, 2012. On December 28, 2012, we filed a complaint against Lennar in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida stating claims for breach of contract under a supply agreement with us. On May 21, 2013, we entered into a final and comprehensive settlement of this legal dispute with Lennar. Terms of the settlement are confidential per the parties' settlement agreement. The volume of orders from key customers is difficult to predict. Fluctuations in order levels from significant customers could cause our revenue levels to correspondingly fluctuate, and the failure by any significant customer to maintain anticipated order levels could cause our revenue to fall short of expectations and adversely affect our results of operations. 11 Table of Contents We may fail to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of our shift to a design and manufacturing business model in California and throughout North America, which may adversely affect the value of our common stock. The success of our exit from the solar system installation business in California in September 2010, and our shift to focus exclusively on a design and manufacturing business model will depend, in large part, on our ability to successfully expand our distribution channels to include authorized dealers in California, as well as elsewhere in North America, and to accelerate the growth of our design and manufacturing business. California is the largest state in the country for solar products, accounting for approximately 50 percent of the U.S. market. Therefore, we continue to pursue developing distribution channel partners in California and North America. If we are not able to achieve the expansion of our design and manufacturing business and meet our revenue growth and cost reduction objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of our change in strategic focus and our restructuring may not be realized or may take longer to realize than expected, and the value of our common stock may be adversely affected. Specifically, risks in the operations of our business in order to realize the anticipated benefits of the change to a design and manufacturing business model include, among other things: · failure to arrange for cost competitive manufacturing of our proprietary solar panels; · failure to find and develop distribution relationships with new channel partners, particularly in California and the North America market; · failure to successfully manage existing distribution relationships; · failure to effectively coordinate sales and marketing efforts to communicate the capabilities of our company; · unpredictability and delays in the timing of projected distribution orders, and resulting accumulation of excess product inventory; · failure to focus and develop our distribution product and service offerings quickly and effectively; · failure to successfully develop new products and services on a timely basis that address the market opportunities; and · unexpected revenue attrition or delays. In addition, the shift in our business model may result in additional or unforeseen expenses, and the anticipated cost reduction benefits may not be realized. We are exposed to risks associated with the weak global economy, which increase the uncertainty of project financing for solar installations and the risk of non-payment from customers. The continuing tight credit markets and weak global economy are contributing to an ongoing slowdown in the solar industry, which may worsen if these economic conditions are prolonged or deteriorate further. The market for installation of solar power systems depends largely on commercial and consumer capital spending. Economic uncertainty exacerbates negative trends in these areas of spending, and may cause customers to push out, cancel, or refrain from placing orders, which may reduce our net sales. Difficulties in obtaining capital and adverse market conditions may also lead to the inability of some customers to obtain affordable financing, including traditional project financing and tax-incentive based financing and home equity based financing, resulting in lower sales to potential customers with liquidity issues, and may lead to an increase of incidents where our customers are unwilling or unable to pay for systems they purchase, and additional bad debt expense for us. Further, these conditions and uncertainty about future economic conditions make it challenging for us to obtain equity and debt financing to meet our working capital requirements to support our business, forecast our operating results, make business decisions, and identify the risks that may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from the difficult macroeconomic environment, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our technology may encounter unexpected problems or may not be protectable, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our technology is relatively new and has not been tested in installation settings for a sufficient period of time to prove its long-term effectiveness and benefits. Problems may occur with products or their underlying components that are unexpected and could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. We have been issued several U.S. and foreign patents that cover our Andalay solar panel technology. We have several other pending patent applications covering Andalay technology. Ultimately, we may not be able to realize the benefits from any patent that is issued. Because our industry is highly competitive and has low barriers to entry, we may lose market share to larger companies that are better equipped to weather a decline in market conditions due to increased competition. Our industry is highly competitive and fragmented, is subject to rapid change and has low barriers to entry. Competition in the solar power services industry may increase in the future, partly due to low barriers to entry, as well as from other alternative energy sources now in existence or developed in the future. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share and greater competition for qualified technical personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. If we are unable to compete effectively, or if competition results in a deterioration of market conditions, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents Our profitability depends, in part, on our success and brand recognition and we could lose our competitive advantage if we are not able to protect our trademarks and patents against infringement, and any related litigation could be time-consuming and costly. On August 23, 2013, we received formal notice of termination of our license agreement with Westinghouse Electric Corporation due to the non-payment of past due license fees. As of December 31, 2013, we owed Westinghouse $1,027,705. On January 22, 2014, we entered into a claim purchase and assignment agreement with Westinghouse Electric and ASC Recap LLC (ASC) whereby ASC purchased our debt owed to Westinghouse Electric Corporation at a substantial discount to the face value. On February 26, 2014, we entered into a Settlement Agreement and Stipulation with ASC whereby upon the purchase of prior debt by ASC, we agreed to issue to ASC certain shares of our common stock in a §3(a)(10) 1933 Act proceeding in settlement of the debt ASC acquired. The settlement agreement requires court approval and there can be no assurance that such approval will be granted or that we will be able to sell enough shares of our stock to satisfy the terms of the settlemnet3(a)(10) proceeding required court approval. While the Westinghouse trademark is an important, world-wide recognized brand, we believe the most important competitive factors relating to our products are their effectiveness, efficiency and consumer cost, i.e., price point, and ultimately to the extent the cost of the Westinghouse license becomes prohibitive, it negatively impacts our cost of goods sold. However, we do not have the ability to accurately estimate the true impact of the loss of the use of such trademark. We have registered the “Andalay” trademark with the United States Patent and Trademark Office related to our panel technology. Use of our trademarks or similar trademarks by competitors in geographic areas in which we have not yet operated could adversely affect our ability to use or gain protection for our brand in those markets, which could weaken our brand and harm our business and competitive position. In addition, any litigation relating to protecting our trademarks and patents against infringement could be time consuming and costly. We may have warranty obligations to Real Goods Solar, Inc. that could adversely affect our results of operations. In connection with our exit from the solar system installation business in California, Real Goods Solar, Inc. (Real Goods) agreed to undertake primary, “first responder” responsibility for future warranty service obligations relating to the approximately 800 installations for SunRun that we have previously completed (the “Andalay Installations”). We retain secondary warranty responsibility on the Andalay Installations, in the event that Real Goods fails to perform the warranty. We will reimburse Real Goods for actual warranty service work completed by Real Goods related to these “first responder” installations. Other than solar panels and inverters that are covered under the manufacturer warranty, we provided our customers for Andalay Installations a 5-year or a 10-year warranty. We have accrued, and included within “Liabilities of Discontinued Operations” in our consolidated balance sheets for December 31, 2013 and 2012, a liability of approximately $1.0 million and $1.1 million, respectively, to cover these warranty obligations. That amount is intended to cover both the Andalay Installations and certain installation projects assigned to Real Goods. The terms of the Warranty Agreements provided that we establish an escrow account as a source of funds from which to satisfy our obligation to pay Real Goods for its fees and reimburse it for its expenses for warranty work performed by it pursuant to the Warranty Agreements which are not paid to Real Goods from the company directly. In March 2011, we entered into an Escrow Agreement with Real Goods and deposited $200,000 into an escrow fund. The amount is reflected in long-term assets of discontinued operations in our consolidated balance sheets. The escrow deposit will be released to us in the amount of $40,000, or one-fifth of the remaining escrow funds, per year after each of the fifth through the ninth anniversary of the escrow agreement. If Real Goods fails to perform under the assigned warranty coverage, or the actual warranty expenses exceed the amounts we have accrued, we could incur significant unexpected additional expenses, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Impairment charges could reduce our results of operations. In accordance with the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standard Codification (ASC) 350, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (ASC 350), we test intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for impairment on an annual basis, and on an interim basis if an event occurs that might reduce the fair value of the reporting unit below its carrying value. We also assess the fair value of our inventory and other tangible assets as of the end of each reporting period. During the year ended December 31, 2012, we recorded a $206,000 non-cash inventory write-down, which represented an adjustment to the carrying value of our older, smaller-format solar panels and older micro-inverter inventory to reflect the decline in market prices compared to our original cost, a $65,000 write-off of accumulated inventory overhead costs and a $112,000 non-cash inventory write-off of obsolete inventory. We may determine that further asset impairment charges are needed in the future. Although any such impairment charge would be a non-cash expense, further impairment of our tangible or intangible assets could materially increase our expenses and reduce our results of operations. Our success depends on our key personnel, including our executive officers, and the loss of key personnel or the transition of key personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer, could disrupt our business. Our success greatly depends on the continued contributions of our senior management and other key sales, marketing and operations personnel. These employees may voluntarily terminate their employment at any time. We may not be able to successfully retain existing personnel or identify, hire and integrate new personnel; and we do not have key person insurance policies in place for these employees. Since May 7, 2012, Margaret Randazzo, our Chief Financial Officer and a director, has acted as our Chief Executive Officer. We are currently conducting a search for a successor to Ms. Randazzo, who will be resigning as our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer effective June 30, 2014. There can be no assurance that we will be able to find a suitable candidate to fill both roles or that there will be a smooth transition. Changes in our key positions can be disruptive and could have a material adverse effect on our operations and business. If we are unable to attract, train and retain highly qualified personnel, the quality of our services may decline and we may not successfully execute our internal growth strategies. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to continue to attract, train, motivate and retain highly skilled and experienced employees, including technical personnel. Qualified technical employees periodically are in great demand and may be unavailable in the time frame required to satisfy our customers’ requirements. While we currently have available technical expertise sufficient for the requirements of our business, expansion of our business could require us to employ additional highly skilled technical personnel. We expect competition for such personnel to increase as the market for solar power systems expands. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain sufficient numbers of highly skilled technical employees in the future including a successor CEO or CFO. The loss of personnel or our inability to hire or retain sufficient personnel at competitive rates of compensation could impair our ability to secure and complete customer engagements and could harm our business. Unexpected warranty expenses or service claims could reduce our profits. We maintain a warranty reserve on our balance sheet for potential warranty or service claims that could occur in the future. This reserve is adjusted based on our ongoing operating experience with equipment and installations. It is possible, perhaps due to bad supplier material or defective installations, that we would have actual expenses substantially in excess of the reserves we maintain. Our failure to accurately predict future warranty claims could result in unexpected profit volatility. 13 Table of Contents RISKS RELATING TO OUR INDUSTRY We have experienced technological changes in our industry. New technologies may prove inappropriate and result in liability to us or may not gain market acceptance by our customers. The solar power industry (and the alternative energy industry, in general) is subject to technological change. Our future success will depend on our ability to appropriately respond to changing technologies and changes in function of products and quality. If we adopt products and technologies that are not attractive to consumers, we may not be successful in capturing or retaining a significant share of our market. In addition, some new technologies are relatively untested and unperfected and may not perform as expected or as desired, in which event our adoption of such products or technologies may cause us to lose money. A drop in the retail price of conventional energy or non-solar alternative energy sources may negatively impact our profitability. We believe that an end customer’s decision to purchase or install solar power capabilities is primarily driven by the cost and return on investment resulting from solar power systems. Fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the prices of conventional and non-solar alternative energy sources, such as decreases in the prices of oil and other fossil fuels, could cause the demand for solar power systems to decline, which would have a negative impact on our profitability. Changes in utility electric rates or net metering policies could also have a negative effect on our business. Existing regulations, and changes to such regulations, may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of solar power products, which may significantly reduce demand for our products and services. New government regulations or utility policies pertaining to solar power systems are unpredictable and may result in significant additional expenses or delays and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for solar energy systems and our services. For example, there currently exist metering caps in certain jurisdictions which effectively limit the aggregate amount of power that may be sold by solar power generators into the power grid. Our business depends on the availability of rebates, tax credits and other financial incentives; reduction, elimination or uncertainty of which would reduce the demand for our products and services. Many states offer incentives to offset the cost of solar power systems. These systems can take many forms, including direct rebates, state tax credits, system performance payments and Renewable Energy Credits (RECs). Moreover, the federal government currently offers a 30% tax credit for the installation of solar power systems. Businesses may also elect to accelerate the depreciation on their system over five years. Uncertainty about the introduction of, reduction in or elimination of such incentives or delays or interruptions in the implementation of favorable federal or state laws could substantially increase the cost of our systems to our customers, resulting in significant reductions in demand for our services, which would negatively impact our sales. If solar power technology is not suitable for widespread adoption or sufficient demand for solar power products does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipate, our sales would decline and we would be unable to achieve or sustain profitability. The market for solar power products is emerging and rapidly evolving, and its future success is uncertain. Many factors will influence the widespread adoption of solar power technology and demand for solar power products, including: · cost effectiveness of solar power technologies as compared with conventional and non-solar alternative energy technologies; · performance and reliability of solar power products as compared with conventional and non-solar alternative energy products; · capital expenditures by customers that tend to decrease if the U.S. economy slows; and · availability of government subsidies and incentives. If solar power technology proves unsuitable for widespread commercial deployment or if demand for solar power products fails to develop sufficiently, we would be unable to generate enough revenue to achieve and sustain profitability. In addition, demand for solar power products in the markets and geographic regions we target may not develop or may develop more slowly than we anticipate. 14 Table of Contents RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK We were delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market and there is a limited trading volume for our common stock on the OTCQB. In September 2012, our common stock was delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market. Our common stock, which currently trades on the OTCQB, does not have substantial trading volume. As a result, relatively small trades of our common stock may have a significant impact on the price of our common stock and, therefore, may contribute to the price volatility of our common stock. Because of the limited trading volume in our common stock and the price volatility of our common stock, you may be unable to sell your shares of common stock when you desire or at the price you desire. The inability to sell your shares in a declining market because of such illiquidity or at a price you desire may substantially increase your risk of loss. In addition, the delisting of our common stock from the Nasdaq Capital Market could materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all and could adversely affect institutional investor interest. On February 17, 2011, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with accredited investors, pursuant to which we sold to such investors our Series B 4% Convertible Preferred (“Series B Preferred”), and our Series K Warrants. On October 18, 2012, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with accredited investors, pursuant to which we sold to such investors our Series C 8% Convertible Preferred (Series C Preferred). On February 15, 2013, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with accredited investors pursuant to which we sold to such investors our Series D 8% Convertible Preferred Stock (Series D Preferred), and together with the Series B and C Preferred (the “Preferred Stock”). The conversion price of the Preferred Stock is subject to adjustment downward in the event that we sell common stock (or securities convertible into or exercisable for shares of common stock) at an effective price below the conversion price of such Preferred Stock. If the price adjustment provisions are triggered, then the number of shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Preferred Stock are subject to increase. On each of August 30, 2013 and November 25, 2013, we entered into a securities purchase agreement with a certain institutional accredited investor relating to the sale and issuance of a convertible note in the principal amount of $200,000 that matures August 29, 2015 and November 25, 2015, respectively, and is convertible into shares of our common stock, at any time after issuance, at the option of the purchaser, at a conversion price equal to $0.02, subject to adjustment upon the happening of certain events, including stock dividends, stock splits and the issuance of common stock equivalents at a price below the conversion price. On December 19, 2013, we entered into a securities purchase agreement with the same institutional accredited investor relating to the sale and issuance of a (i) convertible note in the principal amount of $250,000 that matures December 19, 2015, and is convertible into shares of our common stock, at any time after issuance, at the option of the purchaser, at a conversion price equal to $0.02, subject to adjustment upon the happening of certain events and (ii) five-year warrant exercisable for 6,250,000 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $0.02, subject to adjustment upon the happening of certain events. On January 23, 2014, we entered into the Equity Purchase Agreement with Southridge. Pursuant to the Equity Purchase Agreement, Southridge has committed to purchase up to $5,000,000 worth of our common stock, over a period of time terminating on the earlier of: (i) 18 months from the effective date of the registration statement to be filed by us for the New Equity Purchase Agreement; or (ii) the date on which Southridge has purchased an aggregate maximum purchase price of $5,000,000 pursuant to the New Equity Purchase Agreement; Southridge’s commitment to purchase our common stock is subject to various conditions, including, but not limited to, limitations based on the trading volume of our common stock. On January 27, 2014 we entered into a securities purchase agreement with the same institutional accredited investor relating to the sale and issuance of a convertible note in the principal amount of $100,000 that matures January 27, 2016 and is convertible into shares of our common stock, at any time after issuance, at the option of the purchaser, at a conversion price equal to $0.02, subject to adjustment upon the happening of certain events. On February 25, 2014, we entered into a securities purchase agreement with the same institutional accredited investor relating to the sale and issuance of a (i) convertible note in the principal amount of $200,000 that matures February 25, 2016 and is convertible into shares of our common stock, at any time after issuance, at the option of the purchaser, at a conversion price equal to $0.02, subject to adjustment upon the happening of certain events and (ii) five- year warrant (with a cashless exercise feature under certain circumstances) to purchase 5,000,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $0.02, subject to adjustment under certain circumstances. When the investors convert our Preferred Stock and convertible notes or exercise the warrant, our stockholders may experience dilution in the net tangible book value of their common stock. In addition, the sale or availability for sale of the underlying shares or shares sold pursuant to the Equity Purchase Agreement in the marketplace could depress our stock price. As a result, the investors could resell the underlying shares immediately upon issuance, which may result in significant downward pressure on the market price of our stock. In connection with the Series D Preferred and convertible notes, we have granted the purchasers “piggy-back” registration rights to include the underlying shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Series D Preferred in future registration statements, if any are filed by us. In addition, the terms of our Preferred Stock include various agreements and negative covenants on our part, including covenants on our part to maintain and keep available sufficient authorized shares of our common stock to support the conversion in full of our outstanding shares of preferred stock. As a result of our financing on August 30, 2013, the effective conversion price of various shares of outstanding Preferred Stock was adjusted downward to $0.02 per share of common stock. In the event we fail to comply with those provisions, or if a “change of control” of the Company occurs, it could constitute a “triggering event” (as defined in the Certificates of Designation which designate the rights of the three series of Preferred Stock), and the holders of our Preferred Stock could then demand that all of the outstanding shares of Preferred Stock be redeemed for cash (in certain circumstances generally within our control), or under certain circumstances, for shares of our common stock. Any such demand for redemption in cash could have a material adverse affect on our financial position and liquidity, and any demand for redemption in stock could have a material dilutive effect for our stockholders. In addition, in certain such triggering events, the dividend rate on our outstanding Preferred Stock is subject to increase to 18% per annum thereafter. Future sales of common stock by our existing stockholders may cause our stock price to fall. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by our existing stockholders of shares of common stock in the market, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of February 28, 2014, we had 145,593,791 shares of common stock outstanding (which includes 1,258,763 unvested shares of restricted stock granted to our directors and our employees), 700 shares of Series D Preferred that are convertible into 35,000,000 shares of common stock and 87 shares of Series C Preferred that are convertible into 4,333,350 shares of common stock, and we had warrants to purchase 14,648,045 shares of common stock and options to purchase 6,605,733 shares of common stock outstanding. All of the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of our outstanding vested options will be freely tradable without restriction under the federal securities laws unless purchased by our affiliates. 15 Table of Contents Our stock price may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could fluctuate widely in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: · technological innovations or new products and services by us or our competitors; · announcements or press releases relating to the energy sector or to our business or prospects; · additions or departures of key personnel; · regulatory, legislative or other developments affecting us or the solar power industry generally; · our ability to execute our business plan; · operating results that fall below expectations; · volume and timing of customer orders; · industry developments; · economic and other external factors; and · period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also significantly affect the market price of our common stock. Our stock is a penny stock and therefore may be less attractive to investors. Our stock is considered to be a penny stock. The SEC has adopted rules that regulate broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in penny stocks. Penny stocks are generally equity securities with a market price of less than $5.00, other than securities registered on certain national securities exchanges or quoted on the NASDAQ system, provided that current price and volume information with respect to transactions in such securities is provided by the exchange or system. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document prepared by the SEC, that: (a) contains a description of the nature and level of risk in the market for penny stocks in both public offerings and secondary trading; (b) contains a description of the broker's or dealer's duties to the customer and of the rights and remedies available to the customer with respect to a violation of such duties or other requirements of the securities laws; (c) contains a brief, clear, narrative description of a dealer market, including bid and ask prices for penny stocks and the significance of the spread between the bid and ask price; (d) contains a toll-free telephone number for inquiries on disciplinary actions; (e) defines significant terms in the disclosure document or in the conduct of trading in penny stocks; and (f) contains such other information and is in such form, including language, type size and format, as the SEC shall require by rule or regulation. The broker-dealer also must provide, prior to effecting any transaction in a penny stock, the customer with: (a) bid and offer quotations for the penny stock; (b) the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction; (c) the number of shares to which such bid and ask prices apply, or other comparable information relating to the depth and liquidity of the market for such stock; and (d) a monthly account statement showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from those rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written acknowledgment of the receipt of a risk disclosure statement, a written agreement as to transactions involving penny stocks, and a signed and dated copy of a written suitability statement. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the trading activity for our common stock. Therefore, stockholders may have difficulty selling our securities. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMPANY The recently terminated Merger Agreement with CBD could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. On May 7, 2012, we entered into a merger agreement with CBD Energy Limited, an Australian corporation (CBD). We had originally targeted completion of the merger during the third quarter of 2012, however the target date for completion had been repeatedly delayed, and the necessary registration statement had yet to be completed and filed. The uncertainty resulted in a disruption in our supply relationships, leading to a significant decline in our revenue and the implementation of significant cost reductions including the layoff of employees during the time we pursued the merger. Given the continued delays and uncertainty of whether and when the closing conditions for the merger as set for in the merger agreement will be satisfied, we terminated the merger agreement with CBD effective July 18, 2013. We are now committed to focus our attention on rebuilding our core business, expanding our current product offerings and exploring strategic opportunities. If we are unable to successfully rebuild our core business, expand our current product offerings or determine viable strategic opportunities, our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents We are subject to the reporting requirements of the federal securities laws, which impose additional burdens on us. We are a public reporting company and, accordingly, subject to the information and reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and other federal securities laws, including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As a public company, these rules and regulations result in increased compliance costs and make certain activities more time consuming and costly. Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes our board to create new series of preferred stock without further approval by our stockholders, which could adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority to fix and determine the relative rights and preferences of preferred stock. Our Board of Directors also has the authority to issue preferred stock without further stockholder approval. As a result, our Board of Directors could authorize the issuance of new series of preferred stock that would grant to holders the preferred right to our assets upon liquidation, the right to receive dividend payments before dividends are distributed to the holders of common stock and the right to the redemption of the shares, together with a premium, prior to the redemption of our common stock. In addition, our Board of Directors could authorize the issuance of new series of preferred stock that has greater voting power than our common stock or that is convertible into our common stock, which could decrease the relative voting power of our common stock or result in dilution to our existing stockholders. Our recent increase in our authorized shares of common stock and our issuances of convertible notes could result in future dilution of our common stock. If we sell additional equity or convertible debt securities, those sales could result in additional dilution to our stockholders. In addition, holder of our convertible notes have the right to convert their notes into shares of our Common Stock, subject to a blocker of 9.99% of our outstanding common stock which will result in substantial dilution to our stockholders. In addition, our increase in the number of authorized shares of common stock to 500,000,000 in September 2013 allows us to issue many more shares of common stock. Future issuances of common shares may be adversely affected by the Equity Line. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of issuances and sales by us, including pursuant to the Equity Line under the Equity Purchase Agreement, or sales by our existing shareholders, of common stock, or the perception that these issuances and sales could occur. Sales by our shareholders might also make it more difficult for us to issue and sell common stock at a time and price that we deem appropriate. It is likely that the sale of shares by Southridge will depress the market price of our common stock. Draw downs under the Equity Purchase Agreement may cause dilution to existing shareholders. Under the terms of the Equity Purchase Agreement, Southridge has committed to purchase up to $5,000,000 worth of shares of our common stock. From time to time during the term of the Equity Purchase Agreement, and at our sole discretion, we may present Southridge with a Draw Down Notice requiring Southridge to purchase shares of our common stock. The purchase price to be paid by Southridge will be 90% of the lowest closing bid price during the Valuation Period. On the date the Draw Down Notice is delivered to Southridge, we are required to deliver an estimated amount of shares to Southridge’s brokerage account equal to 125% of the Draw Down Amount indicated in the Draw Down Notice divided by the closing bid price of the trading day immediately prior to the date of the Draw Down Notice (“Estimated Shares”). The Valuation Period will begin the first trading day after the Estimated Shares have been delivered to Southridge’s brokerage account and have been cleared for trading and terminate on the tenth day thereafter. At the end of the Valuation Period, if the number of Estimated Shares delivered to Southridge is greater than the shares issuable pursuant to a Draw Down, then Southridge is required to return to us the difference between the Estimated Shares and the actual number of shares issuable pursuant to the Draw Down. If the number of Estimated Shares is less than the shares issuable under the Draw Down, then we are required to issue additional shares to Southridge equal to the difference; provided that the number of shares to be purchased by Southridge may not exceed the number of shares that, when added to the number of shares of our common stock then beneficially owned by Southridge, would exceed 9.99% of our shares of common stock outstanding. As a result, our existing shareholders will experience immediate dilution upon the purchase of any of the shares by Southridge. The issue and sale of the shares under the Equity Purchase Agreement may also have an adverse effect on the market price of the common shares. Southridge may resell some, if not all, of the shares that we issue to it under the Equity Purchase Agreement and such sales could cause the market price of the common stock to decline significantly. To the extent of any such decline, any subsequent puts would require us to issue and sell a greater number of shares to Southridge in exchange for each dollar of the put amount. Under these circumstances, the existing shareholders of our company will experience greater dilution. The effect of this dilution may, in turn, cause the price of our common stock to decrease further, both because of the downward pressure on the stock price that would be caused by a large number of sales of our shares into the public market by Southridge, and because our existing stockholders may disagree with a decision to sell shares to Southridge at a time when our stock price is low, and may in response decide to sell additional shares, further decreasing our stock price. If we draw down amounts under the Equity Line when our share price is decreasing, we will need to issue more shares to raise the same amount of funding. There is no guarantee that we will satisfy the conditions to the Equity Purchase Agreement. Although the Equity Purchase Agreement provides that we can require Southridge to purchase, at our discretion, up to $5,000,000 worth of shares of our common stock in the aggregate, there can be no assurances given that we will be able to satisfy the closing conditions applicable for each put. Further, there are limitations on the number of shares in that each draw down amount is limited to the lowest closing bid price during the Valuation Period, subject to the floor. In addition, the number of shares to be purchased by Southridge may not exceed the number of shares that, when added to the number of shares of our common stock then beneficially owned by Southridge, would exceed 9.99% of our shares of common stock outstanding. Other conditions include requiring that the registration statement of which this prospectus forms a part remains effective at all times during the term of the Equity Purchase Agreement, that there is no material adverse change to our business on the date of delivery of a Draw Down Notice and that our common stock continues to trade of the OTCQB. If we fail to satisfy the applicable closing conditions, we will not be able to sell the put shares to Southridge. There is no guarantee that we will be able to fully utilize the Equity Line. There are limitations on the number of put shares that may be sold in each put. The number of put shares that Southridge shall be obligated to purchase in a given put shall not exceed the number of shares that, when added to the number of shares of our common stock then beneficially owned by Southridge, would exceed 9.99% of our shares of common stock outstanding. Thus, our ability to access the bulk of the funds available under the Equity Purchase Agreement depends in part on Southridge’s resale of stock purchased from us in prior puts. If with regard to a particular put, the share volume limitation is reached, we will not be able to sell the proposed put shares to Southridge. Accordingly, the Equity Line may not be available at any given time to satisfy our funding needs. 17 Table of Contents Sales of put shares under the Equity Purchase Agreement could result in the possibility of short sales. Although Southridge has agreed not to enter into any “short sale” (as such term is defined in Rule 200 of Regulation SHO of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), of our common stock, the sale after delivery of a put notice of such number of shares of common stock reasonably expected to be purchased under a put notice is not deemed a “short sale.” Accordingly, Southridge may enter into sales or other arrangements it deems appropriate with respect to shares of our common stock after it receives a put notice under the Equity Purchase Agreement so long as such sales or arrangements do not involve more than the number of put shares expected to be purchased under the applicable put notice. Any downward pressure on the market price of our common stock due to the issue and sale of common stock under the Equity Line could encourage short sales. If the market price of our common stock decreases during the put period it will reduce the amount paid by Southridge for the put shares. In a short sale, a prospective seller borrows common shares from a shareholder or broker and sells the borrowed common shares. The prospective seller hopes that the common share market price will decline, at which time the seller can purchase common shares at a lower price for delivery back to the lender. The seller profits when the common share market price declines because it is purchasing common shares at a price lower than the sale price of the borrowed common shares. Such sales could place downward pressure on the market price of the common stock by increasing the number of common shares being sold, which could further contribute to any decline of the market price of the common shares. There is uncertainty as to number of subscription shares and the amount Southridge will pay for the put shares. The actual number of shares we will issue in any particular put or in total under the Equity Purchase Agreement is uncertain. Subject to certain limitations in the Equity Purchase Agreement, we have the discretion to give a put notice at any time throughout the term. The number of shares we must issue after giving a put notice will fluctuate based on the market price of the common shares during the put pricing period. Southridge will receive more shares if the market price of our common stock declines. Since the price per share of each put share will fluctuate based on the market price of our common stock during the put pricing period, the actual amount Southridge will pay for the put shares included in any particular put will decrease if the market price of our common stock declines. Based on our current market price of $0.03, if we put all 35,000,000 shares to Southridge (ignoring all caps on the number of shares of common stock that Southridge can own), we would receive $945,000. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 