ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Operations We have a limited operating history.We were incorporated in Maryland on September 8, 2005. We are subject to all of the business risks and uncertainties associated with any business, including the risk that we will not achieve our investment objective and that the value of an investment in our common shares could decline substantially. Our Adviser serves as investment adviser to other funds, which may create conflicts of interest not in the best interest of us or our stockholders.Our Adviser was formed in October 2002 and has been managing investments in portfolios of MLPs and other issuers in the energy sector since that time, including management of the investments of TYG since February 27, 2004, TYY since May 31, 2005, TYN since October 31, 2005, one of the two privately-held closed-end management investment companies since June 29, 2007 and the other of the two privately-held closed end management investment companies since July 19, 2007. From time to time the Adviser may pursue areas of investments in which the Adviser has more limited experience. 10 Our investment committee is the same for, and all of our Adviser’s employees provide services for, other funds managed by our Adviser. Our Adviser’s services under the investment advisory agreement are not exclusive, and it is not prohibited from furnishing the same or similar services to other entities, including businesses that may directly or indirectly compete with us so long as its services to us are not impaired by the provision of such services to others. In addition, the publicly traded funds and private accounts managed by our Adviser may make investments similar to investments that we may pursue. Unlike the other funds managed by our Adviser (other than one of the privately-held closed-end management investment companies), we generally target investments in companies that are privately-held or have market capitalizations of less than $250,000,000, and that are earlier in their stage of development. We also focus on privately-held and micro-cap public energy companies operating in the midstream and downstream segment, and to a lesser extent the upstream segment, of the U.S energy infrastructure sector. The privately-held closed-end management investment company focuses on privately-held companies and publicly traded MLPs in the upstream, and to a lesser extent the midstream, gas and oil segments of the energy sector and could contemplate an investment that falls within our investment focus. Accordingly, our Adviser and the members of its investment committee may have obligations to other investors, the fulfillment of which might not be in the best interests of us or our stockholders, and it is possible that our Adviser might allocate investment opportunities to other entities, limiting attractive investment opportunities available to us. However, our Adviser intends to allocate investment opportunities in a fair and equitable manner consistent with our investment objectives and strategies, and in accordance with written allocation policies and procedures of our Adviser, so that we will not be disadvantaged in relation to any other client. We are dependent upon our Adviser’s key personnel for our future success.We depend on the diligence, expertise and business relationships of the senior management of our Adviser. Our Adviser’s investment professionals and senior management will evaluate, structure, close and monitor our investments. Our future success will depend on the continued service of the senior management team of our Adviser. The departure of one or more investment professionals of our Adviser could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objective and on the value of our common shares. We will rely on certain employees of the Adviser who will be devoting significant amounts of their time to other activities of the Adviser. To the extent the Adviser’s investment professionals and senior management are unable to, or do not, devote sufficient amounts of their time and energy to our affairs, our performance may suffer. The incentive fee payable to our Adviser may create conflicting incentives.The incentive fee payable by us to our Adviser may create an incentive for our Adviser to make investments on our behalf that are riskier or more speculative than would be the case in the absence of such a compensation arrangement. Because a portion of the incentive fee payable to our Adviser is calculated as a percentage of the amount of our net investment income that exceeds a hurdle rate, our Adviser may imprudently use leverage to increase the return on our investments. Under some circumstances, the use of leverage may increase the likelihood of default, which would disfavor the holders of our common shares. In addition, our Adviser will receive an incentive fee based, in part, upon net realized capital gains on our investments. Unlike the portion of the incentive fee based on net investment income, there is no hurdle rate applicable to the portion of the incentive fee based on net capital gains. As a result, our Adviser may have an incentive to pursue investments that are likely to result in capital gains as compared to income producing securities. Such a practice could result in our investing in more speculative or long term securities than would otherwise be the case, which could result in higher investment losses, particularly during economic downturns or longer return cycles. We may be required to pay an incentive fee even in a fiscal quarter in which we have incurred a loss. For example, if we have pre-incentive fee net investment income above the hurdle rate and realized capital losses, we will be required to pay the investment income portion of the incentive fee. The investment income portion of the incentive fee payable by us will be computed and paid on income that may include interest that has been accrued but not yet received in cash, and the collection of which is uncertain or deferred. If a portfolio company defaults on a loan that is structured to provide accrued interest, it is possible that accrued interest previously used in the calculation of the investment income portion of the incentive fee will become uncollectible. Our Adviser will not be required to reimburse us for any such incentive fee payments. Because we expect to distribute substantially all of our income to our stockholders, we will continue to need additional capital to make new investments. If additional funds are unavailable or not available on favorable terms, our ability to make new investments will be impaired.If we distribute substantially all of our income to our stockholders and desire to make new investments, our business will require a substantial amount of capital. We may acquire additional capital from the issuance of securities senior to our common shares, including additional borrowings or other indebtedness or the issuance of additional securities. We may also acquire additional capital through the issuance of additional equity. However, we may not be able to raise additional capital in the future on favorable terms or at all. Unfavorable economic conditions could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. We may issue debt securities, other instruments of indebtedness or preferred stock, and we intend to borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as “senior securities,” up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act permits us to issue senior securities in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200 percent after each issuance of senior securities. Our ability to pay distributions or issue additional senior securities is restricted if our asset coverage ratio is not at least 200 percent, or put another way, the value of our assets (less all liabilities and indebtedness not represented by senior securities) must be at least twice that of any outstanding senior securities (plus the aggregate involuntary liquidation preference of any preferred stock). If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test. If that happens, we may be required to liquidate a portion of our investments and repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous. As a result of issuing senior securities, we will also be exposed to typical risks associated with leverage, including increased risk of loss. If we issue preferred securities which will rank “senior” to our common shares in our capital structure, the holders of such preferred securities may have separate voting rights and other rights, preferences or privileges more favorable than those of our common shares, and the issuance of such preferred securities could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for security holders or otherwise be in our best interest. 11 To the extent our ability to issue debt or other senior securities is constrained, we will depend on issuances of additional common shares to finance new investments. As a BDC, we generally are not able to issue additional common shares at a price below NAV (net of any sales load (underwriting discount)) without first obtaining required approvals of our stockholders and our independent directors, which could constrain our ability to issue additional equity. If we raise additional funds by issuing more of our common shares or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common shares, the percentage ownership of our stockholders at that time would decrease, and you may experience dilution. As a BDC, we are subject to limitations on our ability to engage in certain transactions with affiliates.As a BDC, we are prohibited under the 1940 Act from knowingly participating in certain transactions with our affiliates without the prior approval of our independent directors or the SEC. Any person that owns, directly or indirectly, 5 percent or more of our outstanding voting securities is our affiliate for purposes of the 1940 Act and we are generally prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to such affiliate, absent the prior approval of our independent directors. The 1940 Act also prohibits “joint” transactions with an affiliate, which could include investments in the same portfolio company (whether at the same or different times), without prior approval of our independent directors. If a person acquires more than 25 percent of our voting securities, we will be prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to such person, or entering into joint transactions with such person, absent prior approval of the SEC. If an investment that was initially believed to be a qualifying asset is later deemed not to have been a qualifying asset at the time of investment, we could lose our status as a BDC or be precluded from investing according to our current business plan.As a BDC, we must not acquire any assets other than “qualifying assets” unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70 percent of our total assets are qualifying assets. If an investment that was originally believed to be a qualifying asset is later deemed not to have been a qualifying asset at the time of investment, our status as a BDC may be jeopardized or we may be precluded from investing according to our current business plan, either of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also may be required to dispose of investments, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our shareholders, because even if we were successful in finding a buyer, we may have difficulty in finding a buyer to purchase such investments on favorable terms or in a sufficient timeframe. We may choose to invest a portion of our portfolio in investments that may be considered highly speculative and that could negatively impact our ability to pay distributions and cause you to lose part of your investment.The 1940 Act permits a BDC to invest up to 30 percent of its assets in investments that do not meet the test for “qualifying assets.” Such investments may be made by us with the expectation of achieving a higher rate of return or increased cash flow with a portion of our portfolio and may fall outside of our targeted investment criteria. These investments may be made even though they may expose us to greater risks than our other investments and may consequently expose our portfolio to more significant losses than may arise from our other investments. We may invest up to 30 percent of our total assets in assets that are non-qualifying assets in among other things, high yield bonds, bridge loans, distressed debt, commercial loans, private equity, and securities of public companies or secondary market purchases of securities of target portfolio companies. Such investments could impact negatively our ability to pay you distributions and cause you to lose part of your investment. Our debt increases the risk of investing in us.We have a $50,000,000 secured revolving credit facility with U.S. Bank National Association, as lender, agent and lead arranger, First National Bank of Kansas and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. The credit facility terminates on March 20, 2009. As of November 30, 2008, we had an outstanding balance of $22,200,000 under the credit facility. Our credit facility contains a covenant precluding us from incurring additional debt. Lenders from whom we may borrow money or holders of our debt securities will have fixed dollar claims on our assets that are superior to the claims of our stockholders, and we have and may in the future grant a security interest in our assets in connection with our debt. In the case of a liquidation event, those lenders or note holders would receive proceeds before our stockholders. In addition, debt, also known as leverage, magnifies the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and, therefore, increases the risks associated with investing in our securities. Leverage is generally considered a speculative investment technique and the costs of any leverage transactions will be borne by our stockholders. In addition, because the base management fees we pay to our Adviser are based on Managed Assets (which includes any assets purchased with borrowed funds); our Adviser may imprudently borrow funds in an attempt to increase our managed assets and in conflict with our or our stockholders’ best interests. If the value of our assets increases, then leveraging would cause the net asset value attributable to our common shares to increase more than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged. Conversely, if the value of our assets decreases, leveraging would cause the net asset value attributable to our common shares to decline more than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged. Similarly, any increase in our revenue in excess of interest expense on our borrowed funds would cause our net income to increase more than it would without the leverage. Any decrease in our revenue would cause our net income to decline more than it would have had we not borrowed funds and could negatively affect our ability to make distributions on our common shares. Our ability to service any debt that we incur will depend largely on our financial performance and the performance of our portfolio companies and will be subject to prevailing economic conditions and competitive pressures. Under the terms of our credit facility, we must maintain the asset coverage ratio required under the 1940 Act. If we fail to maintain the required coverage, we may be required to repay a portion of any outstanding balance until the asset coverage requirement has been met. This may require us to sell assets. The illiquid nature of most of our investments may make it difficult to dispose of such assets at a favorable price, and as a result, we may suffer losses. 12 We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities.We compete with public and private funds, commercial and investment banks and commercial financing companies to make the types of investments that we plan to make in the U.S. energy infrastructure sector. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, allowing them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a BDC. These competitive conditions may adversely affect our ability to make investments in the energy infrastructure sector and could adversely affect our distributions to stockholders. Our quarterly results may fluctuate.We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including the return on our equity investments, the interest rates payable on our debt investments, the default rates on such investments, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. Our portfolio may be concentrated in a limited number of portfolio companies.We currently have investments in a limited number of portfolio companies. An inherent risk associated with this investment concentration is that we may be adversely affected if one or two of our investments perform poorly or if we need to write down the value of any one investment. Financial difficulty on the part of any single portfolio company or the failure of a portfolio company to make distributions will expose us to a greater risk of loss than would be the case if we were a “diversified” company holding numerous investments. Our investments in privately-held companies present certain challenges, including the lack of available information about these companies and a greater inability to liquidate our investments in an advantageous manner.We primarily make investments in privately-held companies. Generally, little public information will exist about these companies, and we will be required to rely on the ability of our Adviser to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential risks and returns involved in investing in these companies. If our Adviser is unable to obtain all material information about these companies, including with respect to operational, regulatory, environmental, litigation and managerial risks, our Adviser may not make a fully-informed investment decision, and we may lose some or all of the money invested in these companies. In addition, our Adviser may inappropriately value the prospects of an investment, causing us to overpay for such investment and fail to receive an expected or projected return on its investment. Substantially all of these securities will be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or will otherwise be less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of these investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments at advantageous times and prices or in a timely manner. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we previously have recorded our investments. We also may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a portfolio company to the extent that we or one of our affiliates have material non-public information regarding such portfolio company. 13 Most of our portfolio investments are and will continue to be recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors. As a result, there is and will continue to be uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments.Most of our investments are and will be in the form of securities or loans that are not publicly traded. The fair value of these investments may not be readily determinable. We will value these investments quarterly at fair value as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors. We have retained Duff & Phelps, LLC (an independent valuation firm) to provide third party valuation consulting services which consist of certain limited procedures that the Board of Directors has identified and requested they perform. For the period ended November 30, 2008, the Board of Directors requested Duff & Phelps, LLC to perform the limited procedures on investments in seven portfolio companies comprising approximately 84 percent of our restricted investments at fair value as of November 30, 2008. Duff & Phelps, LLC’s limited procedures did not involve an audit, review, compilation or any other form of examination or attestation under the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Upon completion of the limited procedures, Duff & Phelps, LLC concluded that the fair value of the investments subjected to the limited procedures did not appear to be unreasonable. The Board of Directors is solely responsible for determining the fair value of the investments in good faith. The types of factors that may be considered in fair value pricing of an investment include the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company’s earnings and ability to make payments, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparison to publicly traded companies, discounted cash flow and other relevant factors. Because such valuations are inherently uncertain, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. As a result, we may not be able to dispose of our holdings at a price equal to or greater than the determined fair value, which could have a negative impact on our net asset value. Our equity investments may decline in value.The equity securities in which we invest may not appreciate or may decline in value. We may thus not be able to realize gains from our equity securities, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity securities may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. As a result, the equity securities in which we invest may decline in value, which may negatively impact our ability to pay distributions and cause you to lose all or part of your investment. An investment in MLPs will pose risks unique from other equity investments.An investment in MLP securities involves some risks that differ from an investment in the common stock of a corporation. Holders of MLP units have limited control and voting rights on matters affecting the partnership. Holders of units issued by an MLP are exposed to a remote possibility of liability for all of the obligations of that MLP in the event that a court determines that the rights of the holders of MLP units to vote to remove or replace the general partner of that MLP, to approve amendments to that MLP’s partnership agreement, or to take other action under the partnership agreement of that MLP would constitute “control” of the business of that MLP, or a court or governmental agency determines that the MLP is conducting business in a state without complying with the partnership statute of that state. Holders of MLP units are also exposed to the risk that they be required to repay amounts to the MLP that are wrongfully distributed to them. In addition, the value of our investment in an MLP will depend largely on the MLP’s treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If an MLP does not meet current legal requirements to maintain partnership status, or if it is unable to do so because of tax law changes, it would be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In that case, the MLP would be obligated to pay income tax at the entity level and distributions received by us generally would be taxed as dividend income. As a result, there could be a material reduction in our cash flow and there could be a material decrease in the value of our common shares. Unrealized decreases in the value of debt investments in our portfolio may impact the value of our common shares and may reduce our income for distribution.As a BDC, we are required to carry our investments at fair value. Decreases in the fair values of our debt investments will be recorded as unrealized depreciation. Any unrealized depreciation in our investment portfolio could be an indication of a portfolio company’s inability to meet its obligations to us with respect to the loans whose fair values decreased. This could result in realized losses in the future and ultimately in reductions of our income available for distribution in future periods. When we are a minority equity or a debt investor in a portfolio company, we may not be in a position to control that portfolio company.When we make minority equity investments or invest in debt, we will be subject to the risk that a portfolio company may make business decisions with which we may disagree, and that the stockholders and management of such company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests. As a result, a portfolio company may make decisions that could decrease the value of our investments. 14 Our portfolio companies can incur debt that ranks senior to our equity investments in such companies.Portfolio companies in which we invest usually will have, or may be permitted to incur, debt that ranks senior to our equity investments. As a result, payments on such securities may have to be made before we receive any payments on our investments. For example, these debt instruments may provide that the holders are entitled to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments with respect to our investments. These debt instruments will usually prohibit the portfolio companies from paying interest on or repaying our investments in the event and during the continuance of a default under such debt. In the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying its senior creditors, a portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use to repay its obligation to us or provide a full or even partial return of capital on an equity investment made by us. If our investments do not meet our performance expectations, you may not receive distributions.We intend to make distributions on a quarterly basis to our stockholders out of assets legally available for distribution. We may not be able to achieve operating results that will allow us to make distributions at a specific level or to increase the amount of these distributions from time to time. In addition, due to the asset coverage test applicable to us as a BDC, we may be limited in our ability to make distributions. Also, restrictions and provisions in any future credit facilities and debt securities may limit our ability to make distributions. We cannot assure you that you will receive distributions at a particular level or at all. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business, and if we need to sell any of our investments, we may not be able to do so at a favorable price. As a result, we may suffer losses.We generally expect to invest in the equity of companies whose securities are not publicly traded, and whose securities will be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or will otherwise be less liquid than publicly-traded securities. We also expect to invest in debt securities with terms of five to ten years and hold such investments until maturity. The illiquidity of these investments may make it difficult for us to sell these investments when desired. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly (to meet debt covenants in our credit facility, for example), we may realize significantly less than the value at which we had previously recorded these investments. As a result, we do not expect to achieve liquidity in our investments in the near-term. However, to maintain our status as a BDC, we may have to dispose of investments if we do not satisfy one or more of the applicable criteria under the regulatory framework. Our investments are usually subject to contractual or legal restrictions on resale or are otherwise illiquid because there is usually no established trading market for such investments. The illiquidity of most of our investments may make it difficult for us to dispose of them at a favorable price, and, as a result, we may suffer losses. We will be exposed to risks associated with changes in interest rates.Equity securities may be particularly sensitive to rising interest rates, which generally increase borrowing costs and the cost of capital and may reduce the ability of portfolio companies in which we own equity securities to either execute acquisitions or expansion projects in a cost-effective manner or provide us liquidity by completing an initial public offering or completing a sale. Fluctuations in interest rates will also impact any debt investments we make. Changes in interest rates may also negatively impact the costs of our outstanding borrowings, if any. We may not have the funds to make additional investments in our portfolio companies.After our initial investment in a portfolio company, we may be called upon from time to time to provide additional funds to such company or have the opportunity to increase our investment through the exercise of a warrant to purchase common stock. There is no assurance that we will make, or will have sufficient funds to make, follow-on investments. Any decisions not to make a follow-on investment or any inability on our part to make such an investment may have a negative impact on a portfolio company in need of such an investment, may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful operation or may reduce the expected yield on the investment. Changes in laws or regulations or in the interpretations of laws or regulations could significantly affect our operations and cost of doing business.We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations and are subject to judicial and administrative decisions that affect our operations, including loan originations, maximum interest rates, fees and other charges, disclosures to portfolio companies, the terms of secured transactions, collection and foreclosure procedures and other trade practices. If these laws, regulations or decisions change, we may have to incur significant expenses in order to comply, or we may have to restrict our operations. In addition, if we do not comply with applicable laws, regulations and decisions, or fail to obtain licenses that may become necessary for the conduct of our business; we may be subject to civil fines and criminal penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations or financial condition. 15 Our internal controls over financial reporting may not be adequate, and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to certify as to their adequacy, which could have a significant and adverse effect on our business and reputation.As of November 30, 2008, we are an accelerated filer, and as such, our management and independent registered public accounting firm are required to report on the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules and regulations of the SEC there under. We will be required to review on an annual basis our internal controls over financial reporting, and to disclose on a quarterly basis changes that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal controls over financial reporting. There can be no assurance that our quarterly reviews will not identify material weaknesses. Provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law and our charter and bylaws could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the price of our common shares.The Maryland General Corporation Law and our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or making difficult a change in control of our company or the removal of our incumbent directors. We will be covered by the Business Combination Act of the Maryland General Corporation Law to the extent that such statute is not superseded by applicable requirements of the 1940 Act. However, our Board of Directors has adopted a resolution exempting us from the Business Combination Act for any business combination between us and any person to the extent that such business combination receives the prior approval of our board, including a majority of our directors who are not interested persons as defined in the 1940 Act. Under our charter, our Board of Directors is divided into three classes serving staggered terms, which will make it more difficult for a hostile bidder to acquire control of us. In addition, our Board of Directors may, without stockholder action, authorize the issuance of shares of stock in one or more classes or series, including preferred stock. Subject to compliance with the 1940 Act, our Board of Directors may, without stockholder action, amend our charter to increase the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have authority to issue. The existence of these provisions, among others, may have a negative impact on the price of our common shares and may discourage third party bids for ownership of our company. These provisions may prevent any premiums being offered to you for our common shares. Risks Related to an Investment in the U.S. Energy Infrastructure Sector Our portfolio is and will continue to be concentrated in the energy infrastructure sector, which will subject us to more risks than if we were broadly diversified.We invest primarily in privately-held and micro-cap public energy companies. Because we are specifically focused on the energy infrastructure sector, investments in our common shares may present more risks than if we were broadly diversified over numerous sectors of the economy. Therefore, a downturn in the U.S. energy infrastructure sector would have a larger impact on us than on an investment company that does not concentrate in one sector of the economy. The energy infrastructure sector can be significantly affected by the supply of and demand for specific products and services; the supply and demand for crude oil, natural gas, and other energy commodities; the price of crude oil, natural gas, and other energy commodities; exploration, production and other capital expenditures; government regulation; world and regional events and economic conditions. At times, the performance of securities of companies in the energy infrastructure sector may lag the performance of securities of companies in other sectors or the broader market as a whole. The portfolio companies in which we invest are subject to variations in the supply and demand of various energy commodities.A decrease in the production of natural gas, natural gas liquids, crude oil, coal, aggregates, refined petroleum products or other such commodities, or a decrease in the volume of such commodities available for transportation, mining, processing, storage or distribution, may adversely impact the financial performance of companies in the energy infrastructure sector. Production declines and volume decreases could be caused by various factors, including catastrophic events affecting production, depletion of resources, labor difficulties, political events, OPEC actions, environmental proceedings, increased regulations, equipment failures and unexpected maintenance problems, failure to obtain necessary permits, unscheduled outages, unanticipated expenses, inability to successfully carry out new construction or acquisitions, import supply disruption, increased competition from alternative energy sources or related commodity prices. Alternatively, a sustained decline in demand for such commodities could also adversely affect the financial performance of companies in the energy infrastructure sector. Factors that could lead to a decline in demand include economic recession or other adverse economic conditions, higher fuel taxes or governmental regulations, increases in fuel economy, consumer shifts to the use of alternative fuel sources, changes in commodity prices or weather. 16 Many companies in the energy infrastructure sector are subject to the risk that they, or their customers, will be unable to replace depleted reserves of energy commodities.Many companies in the energy infrastructure sector are either engaged in the production of natural gas, natural gas liquids, crude oil, refined petroleum products, coal, or aggregates or are engaged in transporting, storing, distributing and processing these items on behalf of producers. To maintain or grow their revenues, many customers of these companies need to maintain or expand their reserves through exploration of new sources of supply, through the development of existing sources, through acquisitions, or through long-term contracts to acquire reserves. The financial performance of companies in the energy infrastructure sector may be adversely affected if the companies to which they provide service are unable to cost-effectively acquire additional reserves sufficient to replace the natural decline. Our portfolio companies are and will be subject to extensive regulation because of their participation in the energy infrastructure sector.Companies in the energy infrastructure sector are subject to significant federal, state and local government regulation in virtually every aspect of their operations, including how facilities are constructed, maintained and operated, environmental and safety controls, and the prices they may charge for the products and services they provide. Various governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with these regulations and the permits issued under them, and violators are subject to administrative, civil and criminal penalties, including civil fines, injunctions or both. Stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be enacted in the future that likely would increase compliance costs and may adversely affect the financial performance of companies in the energy infrastructure sector and the value of our investments in those companies. Energy infrastructure companies are and will be subject to the risk of fluctuations in commodity prices.The operations and financial performance of companies in the energy infrastructure sector may be directly affected by energy commodity prices, especially those companies in the energy infrastructure sector owning the underlying energy commodity. Commodity prices fluctuate for several reasons, including changes in market and economic conditions, the impact of weather on demand or supply, levels of domestic production and imported commodities, energy conservation, domestic and foreign governmental regulation and taxation and the availability of local, intrastate and interstate transportation systems. Volatility of commodity prices, which may lead to a reduction in production or supply, may also negatively impact the performance of companies in the energy infrastructure sector that are solely involved in the transportation, processing, storing, distribution or marketing of commodities. Volatility of commodity prices may also make it more difficult for companies in the energy infrastructure sector to raise capital to the extent the market perceives that their performance may be tied directly or indirectly to commodity prices. Historically, energy commodity prices have been cyclical and exhibited significant volatility. Our portfolio companies are and will be subject to the risk of extreme weather patterns.Extreme weather patterns, such as prolonged or abnormal seasons, or specific events, such as hurricanes, could result in significant volatility in the supply of energy and power. This volatility may create fluctuations in commodity prices and earnings of companies in the energy infrastructure sector. Moreover, any extreme weather events, such as hurricanes Katrina and Rita, could adversely impact the assets and valuation of our portfolio companies. Acts of terrorism may adversely affect us.The value of our common shares and our investments could be significantly and negatively impacted as a result of terrorist activities, such as the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001; war, such as the war in Iraq and its aftermath; and other geopolitical events, including upheaval in the Middle East or other energy producing regions. The U.S. government has issued warnings that energy assets, specifically those related to pipeline infrastructure, production facilities and transmission and distribution facilities, might be specific targets of terrorist activity. Such events have led, and in the future may lead, to short-term market volatility and may have long-term effects on the U.S. economy and markets. Such events may also adversely affect our business and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 