ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have a history of operating losses which may continue. We have a history of losses and will continue to incur operating and net losses for the foreseeable future. We incurred net losses of $82,146 and $29,672 during the years ended September 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively. As of September 30, 2008, our accumulated deficit was $175,501. We have not achieved revenues since our inception. Unless and until we commence new business operations, we may never achieve revenue or profitability. Our auditors have indicated that our inability to generate sufficient revenue raises substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Our audited financial statements for the year ended September 30, 2008 were prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. The going concern basis of presentation assumes that we will continue in operation for the foreseeable future and will be able to realize our assets and discharge our liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business. However, our auditors have indicated that our lack of revenues and accumulated losses raise substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. In the absence of additional financing or significant revenues and profits, we may have to curtail or cease operations. However, we cannot guarantee that will be able to obtain sufficient additional funds when needed, or that such funds, if available, will be obtainable on terms satisfactory to us. In the event that our plans cannot be effectively realized, there can be no assurance accepted that we will be able to continue as a going concern. Rules issued under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 may make it difficult for us to retain or attract qualified officers and directors, which could adversely affect the management of our business and our ability to retain listing of our common stock. We may be unable to attract and retain those qualified officers, directors, and members of board committees required to provide for our effective management because of rules and regulations that govern publicly held companies, including, but not limited to, certifications by principal executive officers. The enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act has resulted in the issuance of rules and regulations and the strengthening of existing rules and regulations by the SEC, as well as the adoption of new and more stringent rules by the stock exchanges and NASDAQ. The perceived personal risk associated with these rules and regulations may deter qualified individuals from accepting roles as directors and executive officers. 5 If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure and internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or detect fraud. Consequently, investors could lose confidence in our financial reporting and this may decrease the trading price of our stock. We must maintain effective disclosure and internal controls to provide reliable financial reports and detect fraud. Based on our evaluation as of September 30, 2008, we concluded that we do maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures. Failure to implement changes to our controls that we may identify in the future as necessary to maintain an effective system of such controls could harm our operating results and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. Any such loss of confidence would have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. We have no present business operations. Accordingly, you have little basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve future business success. We were formed to engage in the acquisition, exploration and development of mineral deposits and reserves. We discontinued operations in this area in August 2007. We are presently looking at other ventures of merit but, to date, have not found any suitable ventures. No assurance can be given that we will ever locate and establish a suitable business venture. Our operations are therefore subject to all of the risks inherent in the establishment of a new business enterprise and must be considered in light of the expenses, difficulties, complications and delays frequently encountered in connection with the formation of any new business. We may be unable to obtain additional capital that we will require to implement our business plan, which would restrict our ability to grow. We have a limited amount of working capital that will not be sufficient to fully fund our planned operations. We will require additional capital to continue to operate and expand our business. We may be unable to obtain the additional capital required. Future acquisitions, as well as administrative requirements (such as salaries, insurance expenses, and general overhead expenses, as well as legal compliance and accounting expenses) will require a substantial amount of additional capital and cash flow. We may not be successful in locating suitable financing transactions in the time period required or at all, and we may not be able to obtain the capital we require by other means. If we do not succeed in raising additional capital, we may be unable to fund our operations going forward. Our ability to obtain needed financing may be impaired by such factors as the capital markets and our status as an enterprise without a demonstrated operating history. If the amount of capital we are able to raise from financing activities is not sufficient to satisfy our capital needs, we may be required to curtail or cease our operations. We may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital financing, including investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, securities law compliance fees, printing and distribution expenses, and other costs. We also may be required to recognize non-cash expenses in connection with certain securities we may issue, such as convertible notes and warrants, which may adversely impact our financial condition. 6 We may not be able to effectively expand operations or manage our growth, which may harm our profitability. Our strategy envisions expanding our business. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our financial results could be adversely affected. Growth may place a strain on our management systems and resources. We must continue to refine and expand our business development capabilities, our systems and processes, and our access to financing sources. As we grow, we must continue to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. We cannot assure you that we will be able to: · meet our capital needs; · expand our systems effectively or efficiently or in a timely manner; · allocate our human resources optimally; · identify and hire qualified employees or retain valued employees; or · incorporate effectively the components of any business that we may acquire in our effort to achieve growth. If we are unable to manage our growth, our operations and our financial results could be adversely affected by inefficiency, which could diminish our profitability. Our business may suffer if we do not attract and retain talented personnel. Our success will depend in large measure on the abilities, expertise, judgment, discretion, integrity, and good faith of our management and other personnel in conducting our intended business. We presently have a small management team consisting of our sole executive officer that we expect to expand in conjunction with our planned acquisition activities. The loss of a key individual or our inability to attract suitably qualified staff could materially adversely impact our business. We presently do not maintain “key man” life insurance on any member of our management team. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our business may be adversely affected. There has been a limited trading market for our common stock that may impair your ability to sell your shares. There has not been a trading market for our common stock since our inception. The lack of an active market may impair your ability to sell your shares at the time you wish to sell them or at a price that you consider reasonable. The lack of an active market may also reduce the fair market value of your shares. An inactive market may also impair our ability to raise capital by selling shares of capital stock and may impair our ability to acquire other assets or companies by using common stock as consideration. 7 Our common stock is currently quoted on the NASD’s Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board under the symbol “THSM.OB.” As indicated above, our common stock is not presently trading. As a result, investors may find it difficult to obtain accurate quotations of the price of our common stock. This situation severely limits the liquidity of the common stock and hampers our ability to raise additional capital. We do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We do not intend to declare dividends for the foreseeable future, as we anticipate that we will reinvest future earnings in the development and growth of our business. Therefore, investors will not receive any funds unless they sell their common stock, and stockholders may be unable to sell their shares on favorable terms or at all. Investors cannot be assured of a positive return on investment or that they will not lose the entire amount of their investment in our common stock. Applicable SEC rules governing the trading of “penny stocks” will limit the trading and liquidity of our common stock, which may affect the trading price of our common stock. Our common stock is considered to be a “penny stock” and is therefore subject to SEC rules and regulations that (i) impose limitations upon the manner in which our shares may be publicly traded and (ii) regulate broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in “penny stocks.” Penny stocks generally are equity securities with a price of less than $5.00 (other than securities registered on certain national securities exchanges or quoted on the NASDAQ system, provided that current price and volume information with respect to transactions in such securities is provided by the exchange or system). The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document that provides information about penny stocks and the risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer must also provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. In addition, the penny stock rules generally require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock, the broker-dealer make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for a stock that becomes subject to the penny stock rules and may increase the difficulty investors might experience in attempting to liquidate such securities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. ITEM 