RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Operations Our revenues are highly dependent on levels of passenger and cargo traffic volumes and air traffic, which depend in part on factors beyond our control. Our revenues are closely linked to passenger and cargo traffic volumes and the number of air traffic movements at our airports. These factors directly determine our revenues from aeronautical services and indirectly determine our revenues from non-aeronautical services. Our principal source of aeronautical service revenues is passenger charges. Passenger charges are payable for each passenger (other than diplomats, infants and transit and transfer passengers, if the transfer of the passenger occurs within 24 hours of the passenger’s arrival at the airport) departing from the airport terminals we operate and are collected by the airlines and paid to us. In 2011 and 2012 passenger charges represented 51.8% and 57.1%, respectively, of our total revenues (in 2011 and 2012, passenger charges represented 65.5% and 64.5%, respectively, of the sum of our aeronautical and non-aeronautical revenues). Passenger and cargo traffic volumes and air traffic movements depend in part on many factors beyond our control, including economic conditions in Mexico and the United States, the political situation in Mexico and elsewhere in the world, public health crises, the attractiveness of the destinations that our airports serve relative to those of other competing airports, fluctuations in petroleum prices, disruptions of global debt markets and changes in regulatory policies applicable to the aviation industry. Any decreases in air traffic to or from our airports as a result of factors such as these could adversely affect our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. A global economic and financial crisis may affect our business. The global economic and financial crisis that began in 2007 and continued through 2009, led to high volatility and lack of liquidity in the global credit and other financial markets. The downturn in the U.S. and global economies led to increased commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, decreased market valuations, increased market volatility, high financial risk premiums and a widespread reduction of business activity generally. These conditions also limited the availability of credit and increased financial costs for companies around the world, including companies in Mexico and the United States. Although economic conditions improved starting in 2010 and the availability of credit has increased while interest rates remained stable, another recession could significantly affect our ability to access credit to finance our future projects, therefore adversely affecting our business. Negative economic developments in Mexico could reduce domestic passenger traffic at our airports, which would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Although a substantial portion of our revenues is derived from foreign tourism, Mexican domestic passengers in recent years have represented approximately two-thirds of the passenger traffic volume at our airports. In addition, all of our assets are located, and all of our operations are conducted, in Mexico. Because our revenues are largely dependent on the level of passenger traffic at our airports, any decline in domestic traffic could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, prospects and financial conditions. Therefore, if inflation or interest rates increase significantly or the Mexican economy is otherwise adversely impacted, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected because, among other things, domestic demand for transportation services may decrease. For more information on the potential impact of negative economic developments in Mexico, see “– Risks Related to Mexico – Adverse economic conditions in Mexico may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations” in this section. 7 Table of Contents Our business is particularly sensitive to economic conditions and other developments in the United States. Our business is particularly sensitive to trends in the United States relating to leisure travel, consumer spending and international tourism. In 2011 and 2012, 88.5% and 88.0%, respectively, of the international terminal passengers served by our airports arrived and departed on flights originating in or departing to the United States. Thus, our business is highly dependent on the condition of the U.S. economy, and events affecting the U.S. economy may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In 2011, the U.S. gross domestic product (“GDP”) increased at an annualized rate of 1.7%. In 2012, the U.S. GDP grew 2.2%. Therefore, although the U.S. economy has grown every year since the economic crisis that lasted from the end of 2007 until the middle of 2009, if the U.S. economy falls back into a recession, it would likely have a material adverse effect on our results of operations due to decreased passenger traffic travel to and from the United States. Other trends and developments in the United States may also adversely impact the frequency and pattern of our international passenger traffic. For example, any development that could make travel to and from the United States less attractive to our passengers, including legislative developments related to immigration policy in the United States, could negatively affect the level of passenger traffic in our airports, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Levels of passenger and cargo traffic volumes and air traffic at our airports are highly sensitive to the impact on airlines of international petroleum prices and access to credit. Our revenues are closely linked to passenger and cargo traffic volumes and air traffic movements at our airports, which are determined by the operating levels of airlines at our airports. Airlines’ costs are highly sensitive to the price of petroleum and their access to credit to finance their operations. Increased costs may increase ticket prices and reduce fleets, thereby decreasing flight frequencies and negatively impacting passenger and cargo traffic volumes. International petroleum prices have experienced significant volatility in the recent past, reaching record highs in the third quarter of 2008. Although prices have remained below the highs of 2008, the price of fuel may be subject to further fluctuations resulting from a reduction or increase in output of petroleum, voluntary or otherwise, by oil-producing countries, other market forces, a general increase in international hostilities, or any future terrorist attacks. Increases in airlines’ costs as a result of higher petroleum prices may lead to airline bankruptcies, higher ticket prices, cancellations of routes and decreases in frequencies of flights, and may decrease demand for air travel generally, which may reduce passenger and cargo traffic at our airports. Most airlines also depend on reliable access to credit at interest rates they can afford to finance their fleet of aircraft and make other large investments. As evidenced by the recent global recession and financial crisis, high interest rates and disruptions in the global debt markets had an adverse effect on airlines’ ability to operate their fleets, forcing many to raise ticket prices, cancel routes, decrease the frequencies of flights or forego scheduled investments. Such reductions in operations by airlines led to lower passenger and cargo traffic volumes at our airports, which has had an adverse impact on our results of operations. See “–The loss of or suspension of operations by one or more of our key customers could result in a loss of a significant amount of our revenues” in this section for a more detailed description of which of our major airline customers have recently reduced or cancelled operations at our airports. 8 Table of Contents Our business is highly dependent upon revenues from four of our airports and could be adversely impacted by any condition affecting those airports. In 2012, approximately 82.0% of the sum of aeronautical and non-aeronautical revenues was generated from four of our 12 airports. The following table lists the percentage of the sum of aeronautical and non-aeronautical revenues generated at our airports in 2012: Airport For year endedDecember 31, 2012 Guadalajara International Airport 35.7 % Los Cabos International Airport 18.6 % Puerto Vallarta International Airport 14.0 % Tijuana International Airport 13.7 % Eight other airports 18.0 % Total 100.0 % As a result of the substantial contribution to our aeronautical and non-aeronautical revenues from these four airports, any event or condition affecting these airports could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. Competition from other tourist destinations could adversely affect our business. The principal factor affecting our results of operations and business is the number of passengers using our airports. The number of passengers using our airports (particularly our Los Cabos International Airport and our Puerto Vallarta International Airport) may vary as a result of factors beyond our control, including the level of tourism in Mexico. In addition, our passenger traffic volume may be adversely affected by the attractiveness, affordability and accessibility of competing tourist destinations in Mexico, such as Acapulco and Cancun, or elsewhere, such as Hawaii, Puerto Rico, Florida, Cuba, Jamaica, the Dominican Republic and other Caribbean islands and destinations in Central America. The attractiveness of the destinations we serve is also likely to be affected by perceptions of travelers as to the safety and political and social stability of Mexico, particularly as a result of the uncertainty and safety concerns resulting from the government’s ongoing effort against drug cartels. There can be no assurance that tourism levels, and therefore the number of passengers using our airports, in the future will match or exceed current levels. A reduction in tourism to the destinations served by our airports could directly and indirectly affect our revenues from aeronautical and non-aeronautical services. International events, including acts of terrorism, wars and global epidemics, could have a negative impact on international air travel. International events such as the terrorist attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001, wars such as the one in Iraq and public health crises such as the Influenza A/H1N1 epidemic have negatively affected the frequency and pattern of air travel worldwide in recent years. The terrorist attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001 had a severe adverse impact on the air travel industry, particularly on U.S. carriers and on carriers operating international service to and from the United States. Airline traffic in the United States fell precipitously after the attacks. Our terminal passenger volumes declined 1.4% in 2001 and an additional 5.3% in 2002 (in each case as compared to the prior year). Any future terrorist attacks, whether or not involving aircraft, will likely adversely affect our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. Moreover, we cannot predict what effect any future terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on the United States or any retaliatory measures taken by the United States in response to these events may have on the U.S. economy or leisure travel trends, which may negatively affect our results of operations. 9 Table of Contents In April 2009, Mexico, as well as several other countries, was affected by an outbreak of Influenza A/H1N1. As a result of the outbreak, a number of countries, including the United States, Great Britain and France, advised against nonessential travel to Mexico, although these advisories had been lifted by the end of May 2009. While we cannot completely isolate the impact on travel of the advisories and restrictions imposed by national and international governments from other potential factors such as the economy, our domestic passenger traffic and international passenger traffic declined by 33.3% and 43.7%, respectively, during May 2009 (in each case compared to May 2008). A new outbreak could once again disrupt our operations and significantly affect passenger and cargo traffic levels. Because our revenues are largely dependent on the level of passenger traffic in our airports, any general increase of hostilities relating to reprisals against terrorist organizations, further armed conflict around the world, outbreaks of health epidemics or other events of general international concern (and any related economic impact of such events) could result in decreased passenger traffic and increased costs to the air travel industry and, as a result, could cause a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. Security enhancements and requirements may require additional investments or result in additional expenses. The air travel business is susceptible to, and has experienced, increased costs resulting from enhanced security and higher insurance. Following the events of September 11, 2001, we reinforced security at our airports, and our general liability insurance premiums increased substantially. Since August 1, 2003, we have carried a Ps. 500 million insurance policy covering damages to our property resulting from terrorist acts. We carry a U.S.$ 150 million insurance policy covering personal and property damages to third parties resulting from terrorist acts. Because our insurance policies do not cover all losses and liabilities resulting from war or terrorism, we could incur significant costs if we were to be directly affected by events of this nature. Any such increase in our operating costs would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The users of airports, principally airlines, also have been subject to increased costs following the events of September 11, 2001. Airlines have been required to adopt additional security measures and may be required to comply with more rigorous security rules or guidelines in the future. Premiums for aviation insurance have increased substantially and could rise further. While governments in other countries have agreed to indemnify airlines for liabilities they might incur resulting from terrorist attacks, the Mexican government has not done so and has given no indication of any intention to do the same. In addition, fuel prices, supplies and interest rates for airlines’ aircraft lease agreements, which constitute a significant cost for airlines using our airports, may be subject to increases resulting from any future terrorist attacks, a general increase in international hostilities or a reduction in output of fuel, voluntary or otherwise, by oil producing countries. Such increases in airlines’ costs have resulted in higher airline ticket prices and decreased demand for air travel generally, thereby having an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. In addition, because a substantial majority of our international flights involve travel to the United States, we may be required to comply with security directives of the U.S. Federal Aviation Authority, in addition to the directives of Mexican aviation authorities. If authorities require security enhancements or require us to adopt additional security measures, we may be required to undertake significant additional expenses and capital expenditures, and we cannot guarantee that those expenses and/or capital expenditures will be taken in to account in our Maximum Tariff and Master Development Programs negotiations. Therefore, these additional expenses could negatively affect our cash flows and affect our results of operations. 10 Table of Contents The operation of new baggage screening equipment could increase our expenses and may expose us to greater liability. In 2005, the Mexican government issued a policy letter (carta de política) calling for all checked baggage on all commercial flights to undergo a new comprehensive screening process. The new screening process required the installation of dedicated screening equipment and the manual inspection of baggage if such equipment signals the potential presence of prohibited items. Because of uncertainty over the policy letter’s implementation, the new screening process had been initially delayed. Although the Mexican Airport Law expressly provides that airlines bear the responsibility for baggage screening, the fact that the policy letter is silent as to responsibility caused some of our airline customers to contend that the policy letter’s intent is for airport concessionaires, such as us, to bear responsibility for the new screening process. In addition, certain questions have been raised regarding the constitutionality of the new screening process. Since the issuance of the policy letter, the Mexican Bureau of Civil Aviation has been expected to issue implementing regulations. On November 23, 2012, the Mexican Bureau of Civil Aviation (Dirección General de Aeronáutica Civil, or “DGAC”) published a recommendation, titled a “Circular Obligatoria,” on the Ministry of Communications and Transportation website that, instead of modifying the legal responsibilities set forth in the Mexican Airport Law, attempted to facilitate contracts between parties through certain recommendations regarding issues of responsibility that have been raised. These recommendations are not binding and would have no legal effect unless incorporated into a valid contract. We currently have agreements to operate baggage screening systems with the following airlines: Magnicharters, Westjet, Airtransat, Sunwing, Jazz, Delta, AirTran, Alaska, Virgin, Frontier, American Airlines, Sun Country, U.S. Airways and, as of April 1, 2013, United Airlines. Under these agreements, these airlines agree to hold harmless and indemnify us against certain types of liability that might arise in connection with the operation of the baggage screening system, in accordance with the provisions of the Mexican Airport Law. At the end of 2012, 30.0% of the passengers travelling through our airports were using the system. We expect that by the end of 2013, most of our total passenger traffic will be using baggage screening equipment. Consequently, we expect to sign agreements with most of our airline customers during 2013 on substantially the same terms and conditions as those already signed. The checked baggage screening equipment has been operational in our 10 busiest airports since 2011; only the Aguascalientes and Los Mochis airports continue to perform only manual inspection. We are incurring ongoing expenses to maintain and operate this equipment. Currently, the operational costs of the screening system have been limited to the level necessary to provide the required services to airlines, and we expect to continue recovering those costs, which could increase if more airlines sign a contract to use our equipment. We also expect to incur ongoing expenses to maintain any equipment purchased, and we could be required to undertake significant additional capital expenditures for items such as a new screening technology or additional equipment if screening guidelines are expanded further and require that additional steps be taken to comply with the requirements. These additional expenses could restrict our liquidity and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, if it is determined that we are responsible for all or a portion of the cost or that we are liable for certain issues arising from our operation of the screening systems, our exposure to liability could increase significantly. For more information on screening equipment, see “Item 4: Regulatory Framework – Scope of Concessions”. Our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected if we fail in our business strategy. Our ability to increase our revenues and profitability depends in part on our business strategy, which consists of setting prices as close as possible to our regulatory maximum rates for any given year, reducing operating costs, controlling our capital expenditure commitments under our Master Development Programs with the Mexican government, increasing passenger and cargo traffic at our airports and increasing revenues from commercial activities. 11 Table of Contents Our ability to increase our commercial revenues is significantly dependent, among other factors, upon increasing passenger traffic at our airports and on our ability to renegotiate rental agreements with our tenants to provide for contractual terms more favorable to us. Our ability to increase revenues from commercial activities is also dependent on our ability to continue the remodeling and modernization of the commercial areas we operate within our airports. We cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in implementing our strategy of increasing our passenger traffic or our revenues from commercial activities. The passenger traffic volume in our airports depends on factors beyond our control, such as the attractiveness of the commercial, industrial and tourist centers that the airports serve. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the passenger traffic volume in our airports will increase or that our profitability will increase. If a change in relations with our labor force should occur, such a change could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Although we currently believe we maintain good relations with our labor force, if any conflicts with our employees were to arise in the future, including with our unionized employees (which accounted for approximately 49.0% of our total employees as of December 31, 2012), resulting events such as strikes or other disruptions that could arise with respect to our workforce could have a negative impact on our results of operations. The loss of or suspension of operations by one or more of our key customers could result in a loss of a significant amount of our revenues. A majority of our revenues are driven by the operations of a few key customer airlines. Concesionaria Vuela Compañía de Aviación, S.A. de C.V., or Volaris; Grupo Aeroméxico, S.A.B. de C.V., or Grupo Aeroméxico, a holding company that owns Aeroméxico and Aeroméxico Connect (formerly Aerolitoral); and ABC Aerolíneas S.A. de C.V., or Interjet, accounted—excluding revenues from passenger charges—for 2.9%, 2.0% and 0.8% respectively, of total revenues in our airports in 2012 (3.3%, 2.2% and 0.9% respectively, of the sum of aeronautical and non-aeronautical revenues generated in our airports in 2012). None of our contracts with our airline customers obligate them to continue providing service to our airports, and we can offer no assurance that, if any of our key customers reduce their use of our airports, competing airlines would add flights to their schedules to replace any flights no longer handled by our principal airline customers. For example, on August 2, 2010, Mexicana, one of Mexico’s two largest carriers and previously an airline which was among our three largest customers in terms of passenger traffic, filed for bankruptcy protection in Mexico and in the United States. On August 28, 2010, Mexicana, Mexicana Click (formerly known as Aerovías Caribe) and Mexicana Link (formerly known as Mexicana (Inter) (collectively “Grupo Mexicana”) ceased operations. Mexicana Click and Mexicana Link filed for bankruptcy protection on September 7, 2010. In 2010, Grupo Mexicana was still our third largest carrier and accounted for 8.9% of the sum of aeronautical and non-aeronautical revenues generated in our airports. It was not until 2012 that all seats previously flown by Grupo Mexicana were taken over by other airlines. We can offer no assurance that competing airlines would seek to increase their flight schedules if any of our key customers reduced their use of our airports. In addition, Mexican law prohibits an international airline from transporting passengers from one Mexican location to another, except if the passenger originated travel outside Mexico, thus limiting the number of airlines providing domestic service in Mexico. Accordingly, we expect to continue to generate a significant portion of our revenues from domestic travel from a limited number of airlines. 12 Table of Contents Additionally, on November 29, 2011, AMR Corporation (“AMR”), parent of American Airlines Inc. (“American”) and AMR Eagle Holding Company (“American Eagle”) filed voluntary petitions for Chapter 11 reorganization in a U.S. Bankruptcy Court. The Chapter 11 process permits American and American Eagle to continue operating flights normally during the reorganization. To date, AMR Corporation, through its two subsidiaries American and American Eagle, operates at 6 of our 12 airports, (Aguascalientes, Guanajuato, Guadalajara, Morelia, Puerto Vallarta and Los Cabos). From January to December 2012, AMR Corporation, through its subsidiaries, transported 855,241 total passengers at our airports, which represents 4.0% of our passenger traffic in 2012. During the Chapter 11 process, neither American nor American Eagle has suspended payments for the services provided by us. Furthermore, passenger charges, which accounted for 57.1% of our revenues in 2012 (64.5% taking into account only the sum of aeronautical and non-aeronautical revenues), are collected by airlines from passengers on our behalf and are later paid to us, depending on the airline, within no more than 60 days following the date of each flight. If any of our key airline customers were to become insolvent or seek bankruptcy protection, we would be an unsecured creditor with respect to any unpaid passenger charges, and we might not be able to recover the full amount of such charges. During 2009, we renegotiated our passenger charges collection agreements with all of our airline customers. See “Item 4, Business Overview – Our Sources of Revenues – Aeronautical Services – Passenger Charges”. According to the new agreements that took effect on November 1, 2009, an airline could have a grace period of up to a maximum of 60 days for payment on a case by case basis (not all airlines received the same grace period). If an airline wanted a grace period of any amount up to the 60-day limit, the airline was required to secure the grace period and the equivalent of 30 additional days with cash, bonds or other collateral equal to the charges the airline would incur during that period by taking into account the peak operational days for that specific airline during the previous 12-month period. Thus, in the event of insolvency or suspension of operations by an airline, we would be able to collect passenger charges invoiced to that airline up to the value of the collateral. Although we would have a 30-day buffer beyond the grace period, our cash flows from operations or our results of operations could be negatively affected if such collateral were not sufficient to cover the outstanding debt. Thus, in the event of any suspension of operations by an airline, such as in the case of Grupo Mexicana in 2010, or insolvency, we would not be assured of collecting 100% of the amounts invoiced to that airline for passenger charges, nor could we be assured that we would recover, in the short term, the traffic they would stop transporting. Both scenarios could negatively affect our cash flows from operations or our results of operations. Additionally, some of our commercial clients have had difficulty making their payments to our airports. As a result, we have tried to renegotiate terms with many clients to keep them at our airports. Despite our efforts, some clients have decided to leave our commercial spaces and cancel their contracts. This could potentially have a negative effect on our revenues. Our business is dependent on international regulations that affect Mexican airlines. Airline regulations promulgated by international bodies or regulatory agencies in other countries could affect our operations and potentially affect our revenues or results of operations. For instance, on July 30, 2010, the United States Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”) announced that, following an assessment of Mexico’s civil aviation authority, it had determined that Mexico was not in compliance with international safety standards set by the International Civil Aviation Organization (“ICAO”), and, as a result, downgraded Mexico’s aviation safety rating from “Category 1” to “Category 2.” 13 Table of Contents Under FAA regulations, because of this downgrade, Mexican airlines were not permitted to expand or change their current operations between the United States and Mexico except under certain limited circumstances; code-sharing arrangements between Mexican and U.S. airlines were suspended; and operations by Mexican airlines flying to the United States were subject to greater FAA oversight. These additional regulatory requirements resulted in reduced service between our airports and the United States by Mexican airlines, which resulted in a decrease in demand for travel between our airports and the United States. Approximately 6.6% of the passengers that traveled through our airports traveled on flights to or from the United States operated by Mexican airlines in 2012. The FAA restored Mexico’s Category 1 rating on December 1, 2010. The FAA, however, may downgrade Mexico’s air safety rating in the future. We cannot predict what impact such a downgrade would have on our passenger traffic or results of operations, or on the public perception of the safety of Mexican airports. The main domestic airlines operating at our airports have in the past refused to pay certain increases in our specific prices for aeronautical services and could refuse to pay additional increases in the future. In the past, certain of the domestic airlines operating at our airports refused to pay certain increases in the specific prices we charge for aeronautical services. Although these prior disputes were resolved by 2006, because only a few airlines contribute a substantial portion of our revenues, our results of operations could be adversely impacted if any of these (or any of our other) airlines should refuse to make payments in the future. Moreover, during periods of economic downturn, the airlines that operate at our airports may be more likely to oppose increases in our charges for aeronautical services in future years, which could adversely impact our results of operations. See “Item 4, Business Overview – Principal Customers – Principal Aeronautical Services Customers – Airline Customers”. The airlines at our airports may refuse to continue collecting passenger charges on our behalf or we may decide to collect passenger charges ourselves, which would result in increased costs for us. We collect a passenger charge for each departing passenger on an aircraft (other than diplomats, infants and transfer and transit passengers, if the transfer of the passenger occurs within 24 hours of the passenger’s arrival at the airport). Currently, we have entered into collection agreements with the airlines that operate at our airports to collect those passenger charges on our behalf. As a result, passenger charges are automatically included in the cost of passengers’ tickets, and we issue invoices for those charges to each airline. See “Item 4, Business Overview – Our Sources of Revenues – Aeronautical Services – Passenger Charges”. We and the airlines with which we have these collection agreements have the right to cancel them with prior notice to the other party. If we or one of our airline customers were to cancel a collection agreement, we would have to implement a collection system of our own to collect passenger charges from passengers directly. The installation and operation of such a collection system would result in additional costs for us, which would negatively impact our results of operations. The operations of our airports may be disrupted due to the actions of third parties, which are beyond our control. As is the case with most airports, the operation of our airports is largely dependent on the services of third parties, such as air traffic control authorities, airlines and ground transportation providers. We also depend upon the Mexican government or entities of the government for provision of services, such as electricity, supply of fuel for aircraft, air traffic control and immigration and customs services for our 14 Table of Contents international passengers. Additionally, the disruption or stoppage of taxi or bus services at one or more of our airports could also adversely affect our operations. We are not responsible for and cannot control the services provided by these parties. Any disruption in, or adverse consequence resulting from, their services, including a work stoppage or other similar event, may have a material adverse effect on the operation of our airports and on our results of operations. In addition, we are dependent on third-party providers of certain complementary services such as catering and baggage handling. If these service providers were to halt operations at any of our airports, we would be required to seek a new service provider or provide services ourselves, either of which would likely result in increased capital expenditures or costs and have an adverse impact on our cash generation and results of operations. Actions by the former holders of land comprising the Tijuana International Airport and the Guadalajara International Airport may disrupt the operations of these airports. A portion of the lands comprising the Tijuana International Airport and Guadalajara International Airport were expropriated by the Mexican government in 1970 and 1975 respectively, pursuant to its power of eminent domain. Prior to those expropriations, the land had been held by a group of individuals through a system of communal ownership of rural land known as an ejido. The former ejidos’ participants have asserted indemnity claims against the Mexican government challenging the 1970 and 1975 expropriation decrees. See “Item 8, Financial Information – Legal Proceedings – Ejido Participants at Tijuana and Guadalajara Airports”. As a result of these circumstances, our Tijuana airport subsidiary was joined in the proceedings. The current judgment calls for the restitution of 320 hectares of land, although the precise area affected has yet to be assessed. Depending on which particular land parcel is to be returned, this could affect the airport’s perimeter and could materially disrupt the airport’s current operations. Similarly, in the case of the Guadalajara International Airport, two different ejidos commenced proceedings in federal court in 2009 against the Ministry of Communications and Transportation, seeking payment for the land expropriated by decree in 1975. Our concessions guarantee access to the land by the Ministry of Communications and Transportation and any interruption caused to our operations by any of the ejidos is the responsibility of the Mexican Government. Although the Mexican Government must provide restitution for any economic loss resulting from a disruption in access to our airports, there can be no assurance that the former ejido participants will not seek to disrupt the airport’s operations if their legal claims against the Mexican Government are not resolved to their satisfaction. There also can be no assurance that the legal proceedings will be resolved in our favor, which may negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, certain of the former ejido participants are currently occupying portions of the Tijuana International Airport property, but the property is not at present essential to the airport’s operations. Although these persons are not currently interfering with the airport’s operations, their presence could limit our ability to expand the airport into the areas they occupy. There can be no assurance that the former ejido participants will not seek to disrupt the airport’s operations if their legal claims against the Mexican government are not resolved to their satisfaction, which may negatively impact our results of operations. 15 Table of Contents We may be liable for property tax claims asserted against us by certain municipalities. We remain subject to ongoing real estate tax claims that have been asserted against us by the municipal authorities of Mexicali, Tijuana, Guadalajara and Hermosillo for the payment of property taxes with respect to the property on which we operate our airports in those cities, and similar claims have been and may be asserted by other municipal authorities where we operate our airports. We believe that under the law, the Mexican government, as the owner of the property upon which we operate our airports, would currently be responsible for paying these taxes directly if a court were to determine that these taxes must be paid. See “Item 8, Financial Information – Legal Proceedings – Property tax claims by certain municipalities” for a full discussion of these property tax proceedings. In addition, on May 28, 2010, the State Legislature of Jalisco sent to the Mexican Congress a legislative initiative in which they requested that Congress consider changing the current Mexican Airport Law so that privately held airports operating on federal land would be subject to municipal taxes. This initiative remains under review by Congress. If the Mexican government changes the current laws or if we do not prevail in the aforementioned proceedings, these tax liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The actions of squatters on certain portions of the land on which our Guadalajara International Airport operates could disrupt operations and security at that airport. The Mexican government owns the land on which the Guadalajara International Airport operates and has granted us the right to use that land for the purpose of operating the airport pursuant to our concession. Currently, there are squatters residing on or claiming rights to a portion of the property, at least one of whom has attempted to subdivide and sell off certain portions of the property. As owner of the property, the Mexican government must initiate any actions directed at removing these persons from the property. We are reviewing the actions these persons have taken and are cooperating with the Mexican government to ensure that the actions of these squatters do not adversely affect the operations of the Guadalajara International Airport. However, if the Mexican government or we are unable to successfully remove these persons from the property, their presence could have an adverse impact on our operations and security at the airport and could restrict our ability to expand our operations at the airport. Our business could be adversely affected by the penalty imposed by the Mexican tax authority on some of our airports. The Mexican tax authority (Servicio de Administración Tributaria, or “SAT”), in connection with its review of the year 2005, sent us official notices in 2008 and 2009 stating that, under its criteria, the fiscal amortization rate used for each of the Aguascalientes, La Paz, Los Mochis, Morelia and Mexicali airports’ concession values was incorrect. We initiated legal proceedings in a federal tax court to challenge SAT’s findings, based on our contention that SAT did not take into consideration all the relevant legal matters concerning our position on amortization. See “Item 8, Financial Information—Legal Proceedings—Federal tax proceedings against Aguascalientes, La Paz, Los Mochis, Morelia and Mexicali airports”. If at the conclusion of these legal proceedings, the tax court determines that the airports applied the incorrect rate, those airports would be required to modify their tax calculations beginning 2005. This modification could negatively affect our net income. 16 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Regulation of Our Business We provide a public service regulated by the Mexican government, and our flexibility in managing our aeronautical activities is limited by the regulatory environment in which we operate. Our aeronautical fees charged to airlines and passengers are regulated, like those of most airports in other countries. In 2011 and 2012, approximately 62.3% and 68.1% respectively, of our total revenues were earned from aeronautical services, which are subject to price regulation under our maximum rates (in 2011 and 2012, 78.9% and 76.9% respectively, of the sum of aeronautical and non-aeronautical revenues were earned from aeronautical services). These regulations may limit our flexibility in operating our aeronautical activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. In addition, several of the regulations applicable to our operations that affect our profitability are authorized (as in the case of our Master Development Programs) or established (as in the case of our maximum rates) by the Ministry of Communications and Transportation for five-year terms. Except under limited circumstances, we generally do not have the ability to unilaterally change our obligations (such as the investment obligations under our Master Development Programs or the obligation under our concessions to provide a public service) or increase our maximum rates applicable under those regulations should the passenger traffic or other assumptions on which the regulations were based change during the applicable term. In addition, there can be no assurance that this price regulation system will not be amended in a manner that would cause additional sources of our revenues to be regulated. We cannot predict how the regulations governing our business will be applied. Many of the laws, regulations and instruments that regulate our business were adopted or became effective in 1999, and there is limited precedent that would allow us to predict the impact of these legal requirements on our future operations. In addition, although Mexican law establishes ranges of sanctions that might be imposed should we fail to comply with the terms of one of our concessions, the Mexican Airport Law and its regulations or other applicable laws, we cannot predict the sanctions that are likely to be assessed for a given violation within these ranges. We cannot provide assurance that we will not encounter difficulties in complying with these laws, regulations and instruments. Although our maximum rates through 2014 have been set, we cannot predict how our Master Development Programs for the next five-year period from 2015 to 2019 will be determined. We also cannot provide assurance that other regulatory agencies or the Mexican legislature will not impose regulations adverse to our operations in the future or that the laws and regulations governing our business, including the Master Development Programs, the maximum rate-setting process and the Mexican Airport Law, will not change in the future or be applied or interpreted in a way that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For instance, on December 14, 2011, a bill was introduced in Mexico’s Congress to amend the Mexican Airport Law. The bill proposes that the Ministry of Communications and Transportation gain additional authority to plan and apply the standards, policies and programs for the Mexican airport system, to oversee the correct operation of civil aviation in Mexico and to establish rules for airport service providers and the general basis for flight schedules, so as to guarantee the competitiveness of Mexico’s airports. We cannot predict whether this amendment will be adopted or, if adopted, the impact it would have on us. The regulations pursuant to which the maximum rates applicable to our aeronautical revenues are established do not guarantee that we or any of our airports will be profitable. The regulations applicable to our aeronautical activities establish an annual maximum rate for each airport, which is the maximum annual amount of revenues per workload unit that we may earn at that airport from services subject to price regulation. The maximum rates for our airports have been determined for each year through 2014. For a discussion of the framework for establishing our maximum rates and the application of these rates, see “