D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Company We derive a significant portion of our revenues from the three principal telecommunications operators in China, and our revenues could decline significantly if any of them reduces its purchases of our wireless coverage products and services. We provide most of our wireless coverage products and services to the three principal telecommunication operators in China , namely China United Telecommunications Corporation and its affiliates, or the China Unicom group, China Mobile Communications Corporation and its affiliates, or the China Mobile group, and China Telecom Corporation and its affiliates, or the China Telecom group. In 2007, 2008 and 2009, we derived 38.6%, 24.8% and 32.3%, respectively, of our revenues from China Unicom group’s local affiliates, 32.4%, 39.6% and 24.4%, respectively, of our revenues from China Mobile group’s local affiliates, and 5.1%, 7.7% and 15.0%, respectively, of our revenues from China Telecom group’s local affiliates. In addition, as of December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009, 40.1%, 39.1% and 37.3%, respectively, of our gross accounts receivable were attributable to China Unicom group’s local affiliates, 28.8%, 36.2% and 32.0%, respectively, of our gross accounts receivable were attributable to China Mobile group’s local affiliates, and 8.8%, 11.6% and 14.1%, respectively, of our gross accounts receivable were attributable to China Telecom group’s local affiliates. 4 Table of Contents Historically, we typically entered into contracts with individual local affiliates of our major customers and treated these local affiliates as separate customers. Although it has been our business practice to interact with each local affiliate individually, they are under the common control of their parent company. Due to changes to the equipment procurement policies of our major customers in 2007 and 2008, procurement decisions for equipment of the three principal Chinese telecommunications operators are now made by the parent company and its local affiliates through a centralized bidding process which has led to intensified industry-wide pricing pressure. For more details, see “Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Our Company—Changes in the procurement policies by our major customers may adversely affect our revenue and profit margin on our wireless coverage products.” We also experience delays in payments from the China Unicom group, the China Mobile group and the China Telecom group during the ordinary course of our business. As explained in the next risk factor, this is largely due to our limited bargaining leverage and the resulting lack of a specific timetable in certain of our sale and purchase contracts to require our customers to issue completion certificates and to perform preliminary inspections, which are pre-conditions to their initiation of payments. Despite our constant attempts, we have not been able to significantly change this prevalent practice in our industry due to our limited bargaining leverage, and we expect this practice to continue in coming periods. The restructuring of China’s telecommunications operators announced in May 2008 has been completed, and licenses to operate third generation wireless communications, or 3G, networks were granted in China in January 2009. This has led to a significant increase in capital expenditure on 3G network construction by the three principal telecommunications operators in China. However, telecommunications operators may cease or reduce such capital expenditure in the future due to reasons beyond our control. Additionally, the competitive situation in the wireless communication market in China may be altered, or the newly restructured operators may change suppliers or sourcing policies in the future. If any of the Chinese telecommunications operators decides to significantly change its procurement methods for wireless coverage products and services, reduces or eliminates the purchase of our products and services or becomes unable or refuses to pay for our products and services it has purchased, our revenues could decline significantly. Because we have limited bargaining leverage with the three principal telecommunications operators in China, some contractual terms and market practices are materially adverse to our interest. The three principal telecommunications operators in China award contracts through competitive bidding. According to BAYES (Beijing) Information Consulting Ltd., Co., or BAYES, a market research and consulting firm focusing on innovative technologies, there are seven major entities, including our company, competing in the wireless coverage market in China. According to BAYES, these seven major players in aggregate accounted for approximately 42.9%, 40.5% and 52.8% of total market share of the PRC wireless coverage market in 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively. As the three principal telecommunications operators were the only three licensed wireless operators in China after the industry restructuring which was completed in 2008, we have limited negotiating leverage with these key customers in the bidding process. As a result, many proposed contractual terms and market practices subject to bidding are materially adverse to our interest, and we are required to finance significant operating expenses before we recognize revenues and to finance significant accounts receivable once we recognize revenues. Any worsening of these terms and conditions could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and cash flows from operations. Also see “—We have long accounts receivable cycles and long collection periods, and our liquidity and cash flows from operations will deteriorate if our accounts receivable cycles or collection periods continue to lengthen” below for additional cash flow and liquidity risks resulting from these market practices. Changes in the procurement policies by our major customers may adversely affect our revenue and profit margin on our wireless coverage products. Historically we have been awarded contracts by the local affiliates of our major customers through bidding and negotiation, and these contracts covered wireless coverage equipment and services. For more details on the bidding process conducted by wireless operators in China, please see “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business—Our Wireless Coverage Products and Services—Our Sales Cycle.” China Mobile group, in an effort to shift to a more centralized procurement model, adopted a new procurement policy in 2007 whereby the bidding processes for wireless coverage equipment and services would be separately conducted, and procurement decisions for wireless coverage equipment and services would be made by the parent company and its local affiliates respectively. In addition, China Unicom group and China Telecom group, also adopted a similar procurement policy starting in 2008. Under the new policy, even if we win the bid for wireless coverage equipment, we may not win the bid for services, or vice versa. Consequently, we may lose revenue with respect to any single wireless coverage project if we cannot win both equipment contract and service contract for the project. Further, the change in procurement policy aims to encourage more competitive pricing among providers of wireless coverage equipment, which has led to a decrease selling price for equipment. As a result, our profit margin may be adversely affected. 5 Table of Contents We have long accounts receivable cycles and long collection periods, and our liquidity and cash flows from operations will deteriorate if our accounts receivable cycles or collection periods continue to lengthen. Our wireless coverage product revenues are derived from: (i) sale of equipment, (ii) provision of integrated services and (iii) bundled sale contract which is comprised of both sales of equipment and provision of integrated services. On a typical standalone equipment sale project, after we win the centralized bids for the sale of equipment to the telecommunications operators, we begin our delivery of equipment. When our customer issues a delivery certificate to confirm the acceptance of the products we have delivered and signs a contract with us, we recognize our revenue from the sale of equipment. According to the payment terms, the customer is required to pay 70% to 80% of our equipment sale contract amount after delivery and the issuance of a delivery certificate, and the remaining balance is due upon issuance of final inspection certificate by the customer, as further discussed below. For a typical standalone integrated service project, after we win the integrated service bids from the local operators, we begin the installation. The operator will issue a completion certificate and sign a contract with us after we finish the installation. After the coverage network operates for a certain period, the customer will issue a preliminary inspection certificate to us and then we recognize our revenue for services. Some of our customers conduct two inspections prior to the beginning of the warranty period. The final inspection usually occurs 6 to 12 months after the preliminary inspection. According to the payment terms, the customer is required to pay 30% to 50% of our integrated service fees after we have completed the installation service. The customer is required to pay 20% to 50% (cumulative contract amount of 70% to 80%) of our integrated service fees (including the amount receivable upon completion of the installation service) after preliminary inspection and the remaining balance is due for payment after final inspection or the expiration of the warranty period. Prior to the implementation of the centralized procurement policy commencing in 2007, we mainly bid our wireless coverage equipment projects as a bundled sale contract, although following the implementation of the centralized procurement policy we have significantly reduced our use of bundled sale contracts. The customer is required to pay approximately 40% of the bundled sale contract value upon signing of the contract and the issuance of the completion certificate, and the remaining contract balance was due upon the issuance of a preliminary inspection certificate and final inspection certificate similar to the integration service project mentioned above. On a weighted average basis, our historical contractual payment schedule is approximately as follows: • 44% of the contract value due upon the signing of the contract and the issuance of the completion certificate or delivery certificate, • an additional 35% due upon the issuance of the preliminary inspection certificate, • a further 17% due upon the issuance of the final inspection certificate, and • the final 4% due upon the expiration of our warranty period. Because our contracts often do not stipulate when our customers must conduct the relevant inspections, our customers may delay their payments. Even when a payment has become contractually due, it may take a few months to a year for our customers to settle the balance. To the extent revenue recognized under a contract is not yet paid, it is recorded as an account receivable. From time to time, we sell a portion of our accounts receivable to third parties to meet our working capital needs. Installment intervals range from six months to three years, and the amounts of individual payments have varied and may continue to vary in the future. As of December 31, 2009, we had in aggregate gross accounts receivable, including amounts not yet due pursuant to contractual terms, of RMB1,350.5 million (US$197.8 million). Of this total amount, RMB773.9 million (US$113.4 million), or 57.3%, had been outstanding for less than 12 months from the time the revenue was recognized, RMB232.4 million (US$34.0 million), or 17.2%, had been outstanding for 12 to 24 months from the time the revenue was recognized, RMB236.7 million (US$34.7 million), or 17.5%, had been outstanding for 24 to 36 months from the time the revenue was recognized, and RMB107.5 million (US$15.7 million), or 8.0%, had been outstanding for over 36 months from the time the revenue was recognized. Our major customers, such as the three principal Chinese telecommunication operators, may delay in paying their installments to us as they come due and, because of our limited bargaining leverage and our need to maintain an ongoing relationship with these major customers, it is impracticable for us to obtain a significant improvement in their payment patterns. As of December 31, 2009, accounts receivable that became due under our contracts and remained unpaid amounted to RMB622.2 million (US$91.1 million), or 46.1%, of our gross accounts receivable of RMB1,350.5 million (US$197.8 million), as compared to RMB632.1 million, or 50.6%, of our gross account receivable as of December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2009, our allowance for doubtful accounts amounted to RMB36.6 million (US$5.4 million), which was mainly related to certain aged accounts receivable due from operator customers, and our collection cost may outweigh the aggregate amount of those outstanding account receivables. In addition, we wrote off RMB43.6 million in doubtful accounts in 2008, which was mainly related to aged receivable balances due from our non-operator customers who experienced financial difficulties caused by a loss of market share due to changes in the procurement policies by the three principal Chinese telecommunications operators and tightening of credit controls by PRC banks. We made provisions for settlement discounts that we expected to be utilized by our customers in 2007, 2008 and 2009 to operator 6 Table of Contents customers in order to accelerate our collection of account receivables which may have been affected by the telecommunication industry restructuring in 2008. We cannot assure you that our past allowance practice will not change in the future or that our allowance will be sufficient to cover defaults in our accounts receivable. In 2009, as a result of the enhancement of our accounts receivable collection efforts, we were able to significantly reduce our accounts receivable turnover days to 292 days from 469 days in 2008. Our accounts receivable turnover days were 427 days in 2007. However, we cannot assure you that such enhancement will continue to reduce our accounts receivable turnover days or we will be able to maintain our shortened collection cycle in future periods or if there will be any other factors beyond our control that will continue to lengthen our accounts receivable cycles or collection periods. You should refer to “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospectus—Key Factors Affecting Our Results of Operations—Revenue Recognition Policy and Accounts Receivable Cycle” for further details on our revenue recognition policy and collection periods. Our liquidity and cash flows from operations will deteriorate if our accounts receivable cycles or collection periods continue to lengthen. We often begin work on a project before we have a contract for our products and services, which may materially and adversely affect our cash flows from operating activities and liquidity. In line with industry practice in China, when a customer accepts our bid for our wireless coverage products or integrated services or both, it does not immediately sign a contract with us. Our customers sign the contract with us upon issuance of the delivery certificates or completion certificates. Although we believe that our bidding documents, together with our customers’ acceptances of our bids, effectively constitute binding contracts under PRC law, our PRC counsel has advised us that enforcement of our rights to payment in the PRC courts may be difficult. In particular, it is unclear what terms and provisions need to be included in a bid and acceptance in order for a payment obligation to exist under PRC law. As a result, we effectively assume the risk of loss for our projects before the customer signs a contract with us. In addition, in line with current industry practice in China, most of our bid documents do not specify a time period or date by which our customers must issue delivery or completion certificates or sign a sale and purchase contract, even though the equipment has been delivered. As a result, our sales and marketing staff spend a significant amount of time persuading customers to conduct inspections, issue delivery or completion certificates and sign contracts. These unfavorable practices are in large part attributable to the market dominance of our customers and the competitive landscape of the wireless coverage industry. We expect that this unfavorable industry practice in China will continue and that it will continue to materially and adversely affect our cash flows from operating activities and liquidity. We historically recognized significantly lower revenues in the first quarter, which sometimes resulted in net losses in the first quarter, and our revenues may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter in the future, resulting in quarterly net losses. Our customers typically set their annual budgets at the beginning for each year. Once the annual budget is set, the customers will commence the bidding process for specific projects. As a result, the amount of revenues we could recognize is typically lower during the earlier part of the year, especially during the first quarter. In addition, for our standalone service contracts and bundled sale contracts, our customers generally use the same team to manage different aspects of a project, including bidding, contracting and payment. Their work is performed in accordance with their internal annual and semi-annual project management process. As a result, our customers prefer to perform completion and preliminary inspections and sign contracts for each batch of installed projects at the same time. Under our revenue recognition policies, we recognize revenue after we receive the preliminary inspection certificate for our standalone service contracts and for the portion attributable to the provision of integrated services for our bundled sale contracts. Accordingly, we typically recognize higher levels of revenue during the second and third quarter than that of the first quarter, because more wireless coverage products are installed and inspected, and for which completion and preliminary inspection certificates are issued, during the second and the third quarter. During the fourth quarter, especially in December, our major customers, being public companies and influenced by their semi-annual reporting obligations, usually perform completion and preliminary inspections, issue completion and preliminary inspection certificates and sign contracts for a majority of our standalone service contracts and bundled sale contracts. Therefore, we typically recognize the highest level of revenue during the fourth quarter. Nevertheless, as we recognize our revenue from the sale of equipment when delivery has occurred and the customer has signed a contract with us and issued a delivery certificate to us under our standalone equipment contracts, our increased sales of equipment on a standalone basis following the implementation of the centralized billing process has slightly reduced the effect of seasonality on our business. Despite the quarterly revenue fluctuations, our overall volume of contracts has increased, resulting in increasing costs associated with servicing these contracts. Fluctuations in quarterly revenue with expanding costs have resulted in net losses being incurred in certain quarters of recent years, particularly in the first quarter. In 2007, 3.2%, 20.7%, 27.9% and 48.2% of our annual revenues were generated in the first, second, third and fourth quarters of that year, respectively, and we reported a net loss of RMB44.8 million in the first quarter. In 2008, 7.3%, 18.9%, 21.6% and 52.2% of our annual revenues were generated in the first, second, third and fourth quarters of that year, respectively, and we reported a net loss of RMB41.5 million in the first quarter. In 2009, 17.8%, 26.4%, 24.6% and 31.2% of our annual revenues were generated in the first, second, third and fourth quarters of that year, respectively, and we reported a net income of RMB6.3 million (US$0.9 million) in the first quarter of 2009. We believe that our first quarter 2009 performance, however, was unusual due to the extraordinarily strong demand from the three principal Chinese 7 Table of Contents telecommunication operators primarily as a result of the issuance of 3G licenses in January 2009. You should refer to “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospectus—Key Factors Affecting Our Results of Operations—Revenue Recognition Policy and Accounts Receivable Cycle” and “—Significant Quarterly Fluctuations of Our Results of Operations” for further details on our revenue fluctuation and other quarterly financial information. However, past quarterly results may not provide an accurate indication of future performance or fluctuation. Whether we continue to recognize significantly lower revenues in the first quarter will depend largely upon the timing of our customers’ project management processes. We anticipate that we may continue to experience fluctuations in revenues on a quarterly basis and may continue to experience net losses as a result, particularly in the first quarter. We rely on bank financing, including issuing bills payable and sale of receivables, to finance our operations; any expansion of our business will require further financing and will increase our financial leverage. We tend to collect more payments primarily in the fourth quarter than other quarters of each year. In 2007, 2008 and 2009, 62.4%, 43.8% and 44.3%, respectively, of our total annual collections were made in the fourth quarter. This is because our customers prefer to pay for the projects toward the end of their budget year. However, we commence our production and arrange installation of products for a significant number of projects beginning in the second quarter of the year and typically complete and deliver a majority of the wireless coverage products and services during the third and fourth quarters. As a result, we tend to generate more cash flow from operating activities toward the end of the year and encounter increasing working capital needs during the middle part of the year, especially the third quarter. We are therefore highly dependent on bank financing, including issuing bills payable and selling accounts receivable, to fund our working capital requirements and maintain liquidity. Historically, we have relied on short-term bank loans to finance our working capital needs. As of December 31, 2009, we had an aggregate of RMB633.4 million (US$92.8 million) of short-term bank loans and RMB110.0 million (US$16.1 million) of long-term loans outstanding and RMB220.3 million (US$32.3 million) in bills payable. As of December 31, 2009, interest rates on our bank loans ranged from 4.9% to 5.8%, and interest rates on our bills payable financing ranged from 1.7% to 4.8%. In 2007, 2008 and 2009, we sold an aggregate of RMB200.4 million, RMB202.2 million and 371.6 million (US$54.4 million), respectively, of our accounts receivable to third party financial institutions. We expect external financing required for expanding our operations will increase our financial leverage. See “—Our inability to access long-term working capital financing due to the current regulatory conditions in China has adversely affected, and could continue to have a negative impact on, our liquidity” below. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash to pay the principal and interest due on our indebtedness. Our ability to service our debts will largely depend on our ability to collect accounts receivable from our customers and on our future operating performance. If we do not have sufficient available sources of liquidity to repay our outstanding indebtedness, we may have to refinance our obligations. However, we cannot assure you that financing or refinancing will be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we encounter any difficulties in generating sufficient cash to pay our outstanding indebtedness or in securing financing or refinancing or receivable selling arrangements on terms satisfactory to us as and when required, our business and liquidity will be materially and adversely affected, and we will be unable to expand our business. If the wireless communication sector in China does not maintain its current pace of growth, or if the telecommunications operators reduce their investments for 2G and 3G network coverage in the near future, the profitability and future prospects of our business and our liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. We generate most of our revenues from the provision of wireless coverage products and services to telecommunications operators in China. Our future success depends on the continued growth of the PRC wireless communication industry. Any slowdown in the development of the wireless communication industry in China or reduction in our customers’ expenditure on wireless coverage products and services may reduce market demand for our products and services. 2G network enhancement and 3G network deployment require significant capital investment by PRC telecommunications operators, including investments in wireless coverage products and services and base station RF products. The enhancement of 2G networks and the issuance of 3G licenses to the three principal Chinese telecommunication operators in general have had a positive impact on the growth of our business thus far. Although telecommunications operators have been continuing their investment for 2G network enhancement and increasing their capital expenditure for 3G network construction in China, it is uncertain as to how long this investment trend would continue, and any reduction of the capital expenditure for 2G network enhancement and 3G network development will negatively impact our business growth and liquidity. We may fail to offer products that meet industry standards or our customers’ specific requirements, and as a result we may lose customers or orders or incur significant warranty or other costs, and our revenue growth may be materially and adversely affected. The development of our products is based upon a complex technology, and requires significant time and expertise in order to meet industry standards and customers’ specifications. Our customers also have their own sets of standards and criteria relating to their requirements for wireless coverage or base station RF products, including standards and criteria issued by the relevant governmental authorities. We must satisfy these standards and criteria in order to be eligible to supply our products and services to those customers. If we are unable to continue to meet these standards and criteria, we may become ineligible to provide our products and services that have in the past generated most of our revenues and profitability. Furthermore, quality and performance problems could damage our reputation and our relationships with existing and prospective customers and could have a material and adverse effect on our revenue growth. 8 Table of Contents We customarily provide our customers with one to three years of warranty protection, under which we agree to repair or replace defectively installed wireless coverage products at no additional cost to our customers. Our contracts generally do not contain disclaimers or limitations on product liabilities for special, consequential and incidental damages, nor do we typically cap the amounts our customers may recover for damages. In addition, we do not currently maintain any insurance for product liability or warranty claims. Our failure to offer products and services that meet our customers’ specific requirements could give rise to substantial liabilities under our warranties and otherwise. Our research and development efforts may not lead to successful development of commercially viable or acceptable products, which could cause a decline in customer use of our products. The markets in which we compete are characterized by: • rapidly changing technology; • revolving industry standards and transmission protocols; • frequent improvements in products and services; and • fierce competition from well-funded and technologically advanced companies. To succeed, we must continually improve our current products and develop and introduce new or enhanced products that adequately address the requirements of our customers and are competitive in terms of functionality, performance, quality and price. We expend considerable efforts in the development of new and enhanced RF technology and in its commercial applications, including the development of 3G products and base station RF products. Although we have successfully developed products that meet customers’ requirements in the past, there is no assurance that any of our research and development efforts will necessarily lead to any new or enhanced products or generate sufficient market share to justify commercialization. For example, 3G is a new and evolving technology. We cannot assure you that our research and development efforts will yield new wireless coverage products that are readily deployable in 3G networks or that our customers will be satisfied with the performance of our 3G coverage products. Under those circumstances, we will not be able to recoup our research and development costs and expenses, we may not be able to serve our customers’ 3G needs, and customers may refuse to use our products. Gross profit margins for our products and services vary substantially, and any deterioration in the gross profit margin for our principal products and services will have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations. Gross profit margins for our products and services vary substantially. Although the gross profit margin for our wireless coverage products and services has been on average higher than the gross profit margin of our base station RF products, all of our wireless coverage products have been subject to downward pricing pressure due to the fierce competition. In addition, the gross profit margin of our products has fluctuated significantly from year to year. Further, due to the rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards and transmission protocols or changes in the procurement policies of our major customers, our historical gross profit margin is not an accurate measure for estimating our future gross profit margins. Any deterioration in the gross profit margin for our principal products and services will have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations. Our industry is highly competitive, and our inability to compete effectively would hurt our current business and future growth potential. Our industry is extremely competitive and is characterized by rapid technological advancement, frequent development of new products, evolving industry standards and a downward pricing trend over the life cycle of a product. According to BAYES, there were seven major companies providing wireless coverage products and services in China, which collectively held approximately 52.8% market share in China as of December 31, 2009, and the top three providers, including our company, accounted for approximately 35.1% of the total market share in 2009. We compete on the following principal bases: • research and development capability; • product quality; • pricing; • scope and flexibility of product offering; 9 Table of Contents • after-sale service capability; and • relationships with wireless operators and base station equipment manufacturers. If we fail to compete effectively in the future, our current business and future growth potential would be adversely affected. We have limited experience in operating outside mainland China, and failure to achieve our overseas expansion strategy may have an adverse effect on our business growth in the future. Our future growth depends, to a considerable extent, on our ability to expand our customer base in both the domestic and overseas markets. We have been exploring new business opportunities outside mainland China for our wireless coverage products and services. In 2009, we had operations in Indonesia, India, Philippines, Vietnam and Pakistan where we have obtained local wireless service projects. However, we have limited experience in operating outside mainland China or with foreign regulatory environments and market practices, and cannot guarantee that we will be able to penetrate any overseas market. In connection with our initial efforts to expand overseas, we have encountered many obstacles, including cultural and linguistic differences, difficulties in keeping abreast of market, business and technical developments in foreign jurisdictions, and political and social disturbances. For example, our products and services sold in China are tailored to the specifications of our domestic operators and their wireless systems and are not readily deployable overseas. To meet the requirements of our potential overseas customers, we have to adjust some of our technical parameters such as transmission frequencies and make other modifications. In addition, recent political instability in some Southeast Asian countries has hindered our expansion efforts into those wireless coverage markets. Failure in the development of overseas markets may have an adverse effect on our business growth in the future. We rely on key managerial and technical personnel, and failure to attract or retain such personnel may compromise our ability to develop new products and to effectively carry on our research and development and other efforts. Our future growth and success depend largely on the efforts and abilities of our senior management and senior technical staff, particularly Mr. Yingjie Gao, our chairman and chief executive officer, and our other senior technicians and engineers. We have entered into employment agreements with these individuals. These employment agreements have an initial term of three years, subject to the right of termination under specified circumstances, such as a material breach of their contractual obligations. If we lose the services of Mr. Gao or any other senior technicians or engineers, our operations will be materially and adversely affected. We also believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain senior, experienced and highly qualified scientific and technical personnel. The wireless coverage industry is characterized by a high level of employee mobility. Competition in China for experienced RF technology experts is intense. In 2007, 2008 and 2009, our employee turnover rate was 29.1%, 29.3% and 33.4%, respectively, as determined by dividing the number of our employees departing during the year over the total number of employees at the end of the year. There are few senior-level research and development or technical personnel available for hire as the costs of hiring and retaining such individuals are high, and such personnel may not remain with us once hired. If we are unable to successfully attract or retain senior-level research and development employees, our ability to develop new technologies and products and to effectively conduct our operations could be compromised and our ability to carry on our research and development and other efforts could be materially and adversely affected. For our standalone service contracts and bundled sale contracts, we hire third parties to carry out some of the initial installation of the wireless coverage products. We are liable for the failure or inadequacy of their services, and may be vulnerable to the loss and unavailability of their services. For our standalone service contracts and bundled sale contracts, we hire independent third party contractors to carry out some of the initial installation of the wireless coverage products, which include affixing the products to the customers’ physical structure and interconnection of the products under the supervision of engineers from our technical support team. Although Shenzhen Kaixuan Communication Technology Co., Ltd., one of our subsidiaries in China, is primarily responsible for our installation services, we also outsource some of our initial installation work to independent third party contractors located across China. Under our contracts, we are responsible to our customers for the quality of the installation service. We therefore effectively take the credit and workmanship risks of these independent contractors. To the extent our independent third party contractors fail to install the products properly, we will be liable to cure the defects. We typically contract our initial installation work to those contractors located near the project sites for cost efficiency reasons. If any of the local contractors becomes unavailable and we are not able to find any suitable replacement, we will be forced to use contractors located farther away from the project sites. This is likely to delay our projects or increase our project costs. It is also possible that we may not be able to find suitable replacements at all to complete our project installations on schedule. In each case, our business would be harmed, and our reputation would be adversely affected if we fail to find the appropriate third party contractors to carry out some of the initial installation. 10 Table of Contents We may lose our competitive advantage and our operations may suffer if we fail to prevent the loss or misappropriation of, or disputes over, our intellectual property. Our ability to compete successfully and to achieve future revenue growth will depend, in significant part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and operate without infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. The legal regime in China for the protection of intellectual property rights is still at its early stage of development. China adopted its first statute on the protection of trademarks in 1979. Since then, China has adopted its Patent Law, Trademark Law and Copyright Law and promulgated related regulations such as Regulation on Computer Software Protection, Regulation on the Protection of Layout Designs of Integrated Circuits and Regulation on Internet Domain Names. China has also acceded to various international treaties and conventions in this area, such as the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property, Patent Cooperation Treaty, Madrid Agreement and its Protocol Concerning the International Registration of Marks. In addition, when China became a party to the World Trade Organization in 2001, China amended many of its laws and regulations to comply with the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights. Despite many laws and regulations promulgated and other efforts made by China over the years with a view to enhancing its regulation and protection of intellectual property rights, private parties may not enjoy intellectual property rights in China to the same extent as they would in many Western countries, including the United States, and enforcement of such laws and regulations in China has not achieved the levels reached in those countries. Both the administrative agencies and the court system in China are not well-equipped to deal with violations or handle the nuances and complexities between compliant technological innovation and non-compliant infringement. We rely on trade secrets and registered patents and trademarks to protect our intellectual property. We have also entered into confidentiality agreements with our management and employees relating to our confidential proprietary information. However, the protection of our intellectual properties may be compromised as a result of: • departure of any of our management members or employees in possession of our confidential proprietary information; • breach by such departing management member or employee of his or her confidentiality and non-disclosure undertaking to us; • expiration of the protection period of our registered patents or trademarks; • infringement by others of our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights; or • refusal by relevant regulatory authorities to approve our patent or trademark applications. Any of these events or occurrences may have a material adverse effect on our operations. There is no assurance that the measures that we have put into place to protect our intellectual property rights will be sufficient. As the number of patents, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property rights in our industry increases, and as the coverage of these rights and the functionality of the products in the market further overlap, we believe that business entities in our industry may face more frequent infringement claims. Litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights could result in substantial costs and may not be successful. If we are not able to successfully defend our intellectual property rights, we might lose rights to technology that we need to conduct and develop our business. This may seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition, and enable our competitors to use our intellectual property to compete against us. Furthermore, if third parties claim that our products infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights, we might be required to devote substantial resources to defending against such claims. If we are unsuccessful in defending against such infringement claims, we may be required to pay damages, modify our products or suspend the production and sale of such products. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to modify our products on commercially reasonable terms. If we lose certain government tax concessions, our profitability may be materially and adversely affected. Prior to January 1, 2008, the PRC’s statutory income tax rate was 33%. However, our subsidiaries, Shenzhen GrenTech Co. Ltd., or Shenzhen GrenTech, Shenzhen Lingxian Technology Co. Ltd., or Shenzhen Lingxian, Shenzhen Kaige Communication Technology Co., Ltd., or Shenzhen Kaige, Shenzhen Kaixuan Communication Technology Co. Ltd., or Shenzhen Kaixuan, Shenzhen GrenTech RF Communication Ltd., or Shenzhen GrenTech RF, were established in the Shenzhen Special Economic Zone and were entitled to the preferential income tax rate of 15%. Furthermore, Shenzhen GrenTech and Shenzhen Lingxian were granted an additional 50% relief from the preferential income tax rate of 15% and were subject to a reduced income tax rate of 7.5% for 2007. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress of the PRC passed the Enterprise Income Tax Law, which took effect as of January 1, 2008. The new tax law and its relevant regulations also provides a 5-year transition period from its effective date for those enterprises which were established before March 16, 2007 and were entitled to a preferential income tax rate of 15% under the then effective tax laws and regulations. The transitional tax rates are 18%, 20%, 22%, 24% and 25% for 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 onward, respectively. Further, entities that qualified as “Advance and New Technology Enterprises” (“ANTE”) under the new 11 Table of Contents tax law are entitled to a preferential income tax rate of 15%. Under the new tax law, Shenzhen Lingxian, Shenzhen Kaige and Shenzhen Kaixuan are subject to the transitional tax rates of 18%, 20%, 22%, 24% and 25% for 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 onward, respectively. In March 2009, Shenzhen GrenTech obtained the ANTE certificate entitling it to a preferential income tax rate of 15% under the new tax law retroactively from January 1, 2008 to December 31, 2010. Thereafter, Shenzhen GrenTech will be subject to an income tax rate of 24% for 2011 and 25% from 2012 onwards unless it can requalify as an ANTE in 2011 or thereafter. Shenzhen GrenTech RF was established after March 16, 2007 and therefore is subject to income tax at a rate of 25% beginning on January 1, 2008. The enactment of the new law could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, our historical operating results may not be indicative of our operating results for future periods as a result of the expiration of the preferential tax treatment we enjoy. We may be treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes following the effectiveness of the new enterprise income tax law on January 1, 2008, which may subject us to PRC income tax for our global income and withholding income tax for any dividends we pay to our non-PRC shareholders on profits earned after January 1, 2008. Under the new PRC enterprise income tax law, enterprises established outside of China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China are considered “resident enterprises” and will generally be subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate for their global income. The “de facto management body” is defined as the organizational body that effectively exercises overall management and control over production and business operations, personnel, finance and accounting, and properties of the enterprise. On April 22, 2009, the PRC State Administration of Taxation further issued a notice entitled “Notice Regarding Recognizing Offshore-Established Enterprises Controlled by PRC Shareholders as Resident Enterprises Based on Their Place of Effective Management”. Under this notice, a foreign company controlled by a PRC company or a group of PRC companies shall be deemed as a PRC resident enterprise, if (i) the senior management and the core management departments in charge of its daily operations mainly function in the PRC; (ii) its financial decisions and human resource decisions are subject to decisions or approvals of persons or institutions in the PRC; (iii) its major assets, accounting books, company seals, minutes and files of board meetings and shareholders’ meetings are located or kept in the PRC; and (iv) more than half of the directors or senior management personnel with voting rights reside in the PRC. All of our management is currently based in China, and will likely remain in China for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, we may be considered a “resident enterprise” and may therefore be subject to the enterprise income tax of 25% of our global income and as a result, the amount of dividends we can pay to our shareholders could be reduced. We cannot confirm whether we will be considered a “resident enterprise” as the implementation rules are unclear at the moment. In addition, under the implementation rules of the new enterprise income tax law, dividends paid to “non-resident enterprises” by “resident enterprises” on profits earned after January 1, 2008 are regarded as income from “sources within the PRC” and therefore subject to a 10% withholding income tax, while dividends on profits earned before January 1, 2008 are not subject to the withholding income tax. A lower withholding income tax rate of 5% may be applied if the foreign holding company is registered in a jurisdiction that has a tax treaty arrangement with China. Although our company is incorporated in the Cayman Islands, it remains unclear whether the gains our foreign ADS holders may realize will be regarded as income from sources within the PRC if we are classified as a PRC resident enterprise. Any dividends paid to our shareholders which are considered “non-resident enterprises” may be subject to withholding income tax and the value of the investment in our shares or ADSs may be adversely and materially affected. If our idle or insufficient production capacity significantly increases during any particular period, our results of operations for that period may be materially and adversely affected. We plan the utilization of our production capacity primarily based on our projected orders from our customers. We cannot guarantee the accuracy of our internal projections for demands of our products and the effectiveness of our planning for production capacity utilization. We currently have a monthly production capacity of 10,000 sets of wireless coverage products and 45,000 sets of base station RF products. Our actual average monthly production at the Shenzhen facility in 2009 amounted to approximately 8,182 sets of wireless coverage products and 40,568 sets of base station RF products. If our projections are inaccurate, there may be periods when we will have idle or insufficient production capacity for all or some types of our products. Any significant increase in our idle or insufficient production capacity during any particular period may materially and adversely affect our results of operations for that period. Our operations may be adversely affected by shortages of raw materials and the volatility in the prices of raw materials. We purchase raw materials such as various electronic components, metal cases for modules and wireless coverage products, electronic cables, packaging materials and other accessories. In order to meet our production delivery schedules, we must obtain sufficient quantities of high quality raw materials in a timely manner. In this respect, we do not enter into long-term contracts with our suppliers of raw materials. As a result, our operations are vulnerable to changes in the supply and prices of raw materials. No assurance can be given that we will be able to obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials in the future and no assurance can be given that our operations will not be adversely affected by increases in prices of raw materials. 12 Table of Contents If we fail to acquire raw materials on time or on acceptable terms and consequently fail to fill our customers’ orders in a timely and cost-effective manner, our business operations may be materially and adversely affected. We rely on third-party suppliers for our raw materials. Although we purchased raw materials from over 396 suppliers in 2009, our ten largest suppliers in 2009 supplied approximately 46.4% of our orders for raw materials. If any of our major suppliers fails to deliver our required raw materials in time for our production, and we are unable to find the required raw materials from other suppliers in a timely manner and on acceptable terms or we are unable to produce the required raw materials ourselves, there will be a delay in our provision of products and services to our customers. Such delays would damage our relationship with our customers and may materially and adversely affect our business operations. We maintain limited insurance coverage, and any significant product liability claim could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition. We currently do not maintain any product liability insurance for our products and services, nor do we carry any business interruption insurance, third-party liability insurance for personal injuries, or environmental damage insurance for environmental emissions or accidents on our properties or relating to our operations. There is no assurance that there will not be any product liability claims against us in relation to our products. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we will not experience any major accidents in the course of our operations, which may cause significant property damage and personal injuries. The occurrence of any such accidents and their consequential losses may not be adequately covered, or at all, by our insurance policies. Losses incurred, or payments we may be required to make, may have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition. The interest of our principal shareholders may differ from your interest, and their vote may disadvantage our minority shareholders. Since the completion of our initial public offering in March 2006, several of our current principal shareholders continue to be our largest shareholders with the following equity interest in our company as of December 31, 2009: • Guoren Industrial Developments Limited (Yingjie Gao, our chairman and chief executive officer, has the sole power to vote or to direct the vote and the sole power to dispose or to direct the disposition of the shares held by this company) with 25.3%; • Drag Investments Limited (majority-owned by Professor Kunjie Zhuang, a director and a technology consultant) with 9.5%; and • Heng Xing Yue Investments Limited (partially-owned by Rong Yu, a director and our chief financial officer) with 6.1%. The foregoing parties will be able to exercise substantial control over our business by voting at shareholders’ meetings or board meetings on matters of significance, such as: • composition of our board of directors; • selection of our senior management; • amount and timing of dividends and other distributions; • our overall strategic and investment decisions; • issuance of securities and adjustment to our capital structure; • amendment to our memorandum and articles of association; and • other corporate actions requiring approval of our shareholders, including election and removal of directors, merger, consolidation or sale of our assets, or any other change of control event that may benefit our other shareholders generally. The interest of any of these principal shareholders may differ from your interest. There is no assurance that any of these principal shareholders will vote in a way that benefits you. If circumstances arise in which the interest of any of these principal shareholders conflicts with the interest of other holders of our shares or ADSs, you as a minority shareholder could be disadvantaged. Our primary source of funds for dividends and other distributions from our operating subsidiary in China is subject to various legal and contractual restrictions and uncertainties, and our ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to our shareholders is negatively affected by those restrictions and uncertainties. We are a holding company established in the Cayman Islands and conduct our core business operations through our principal operating subsidiary, Shenzhen GrenTech, in China. As a result, our profits available for distribution to our shareholders are dependent on the profits available for distribution from Shenzhen GrenTech and its subsidiaries. If Shenzhen GrenTech or its 13 Table of Contents subsidiaries incur debt on their own behalf, the debt instruments may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions, which in turn would limit our ability to pay dividends on our shares and ADSs. Under current PRC law, because we are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, our PRC subsidiary, Shenzhen GrenTech, is regarded as a wholly foreign-owned enterprise in China. Dividends paid by foreign invested enterprises, such as wholly foreign-owned enterprises and sino-foreign joint ventures, are subject to 10% PRC corporate withholding tax. For further details, see “—We may be treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes following the effectiveness of the new enterprise income tax law on January 1, 2008, which may subject us to PRC income tax for our global income and withholding income tax for any dividends we pay to our non-PRC shareholders on profits earned after January 1, 2008” stated above. In addition, PRC law permits payment of dividends only out of net income as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Determination of net income under PRC accounting standards and regulations may differ from determination under U.S. GAAP in significant aspects, such as the use of different principles for recognition of revenues and expenses. In addition, if any undistributed profits of our PRC subsidiary, Shenzhen Grentech, are used to increase its registered capital so that our equity interests in our PRC subsidiary are increased, approval of the PRC government is required. Under PRC law, Shenzhen GrenTech, a wholly foreign-owned enterprise, is required to set aside a portion of its net income each year to fund designated statutory reserve funds. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. As a result, our primary internal source of funds for dividend payments from Shenzhen GrenTech is subject to these and other legal and contractual restrictions and uncertainties, which in turn may limit or impair our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Moreover, any transfer of funds from us to Shenzhen GrenTech, either as a shareholder loan or as an increase in registered capital, is subject to registration with or approval by PRC governmental authorities. These limitations on the flow of funds between us and Shenzhen GrenTech could restrict our ability to act in response to changing market conditions. If we continue to have any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to timely and accurately report our financial results, comply with disclosure controls and procedures, internal control over financial reporting and other reporting obligations or prevent fraud, which could harm our business and operating results, the trading price of our stock and our access to capital. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. The SEC, as directed by Section 404 of the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring public companies such as ourselves, to include a report of management of their internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K or Form 20-F, as the case may be, that contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of their internal control over financial reporting. In connection with our evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, we identified certain material weaknesses, and our management concluded that our company did not have effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2008. We had taken various remedial measures to address these material weaknesses, nevertheless, we continued to identify one material weakness in 2009 with regard to our lack of competent accounting personnel in applying U.S. GAAP in our financial reporting process, which has been a material weakness identified in both 2007 and 2008, and our management concluded that our company did not have effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or a combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. In addition, our management has also identified certain significant deficiencies for our internal control over financial reporting, which were mainly brought forward from previous years and were mainly due to inadequate remedial measures taken by our management and finance team and our lack of competent accounting personnel. Our efforts regarding internal control are discussed in detail in this annual report under Item 15 “Controls and Procedures.” An attestation report of our independent registered public accountants on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting is also included in this annual report. Although we believe that the consolidated financial statements included in this Form 20-F present fairly, in all material respects, our financial position, results of operations and cash flow for the periods presented in conformity with U.S. GAAP, we cannot be certain that any remedial measures we take will ensure that we design, implement, and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or will be sufficient to address and eliminate this material weakness. Our independent registered public accounting firm may also identify additional weaknesses or deficiencies in the course of its ongoing assessment of our internal control. Remedying the material weakness that has been identified, and any additional deficiencies, significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that our independent registered public accounting firm may identify in the future, could require us to incur additional costs, divert management resources or make other changes. We have set up a project team, led by our internal audit manager, to implement remedial plans for the material weakness after the issue was identified as discussed in detail in this annual report under Item 15 “Remediation Plan”. Our management, including the chief executive officer and chief financial officer, has approved such plans to address the material weakness. Any delay or failure to design and implement new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation or operation, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations, or prevent us from providing reliable and accurate financial reports or avoiding or detecting fraud. Disclosure of our material weakness, any failure to remediate such material weakness in a timely fashion or having or maintaining ineffective internal control could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could negatively impact the market price of our ADSs. 14 Table of Contents We may be or become a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Such characterization could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to you if you are a U.S. investor. For example, U.S. investors who owned our ordinary shares or ADSs during any taxable year in which we were a PFIC generally are subject to increased U.S. tax liabilities and reporting requirements for that taxable year and all succeeding years, regardless of whether we actually continue to be a PFIC, although a shareholder election to terminate such deemed PFIC status may be available in certain circumstances. The determination of whether or not we are a PFIC is made on an annual basis and depends on the composition of our income and assets, including goodwill, from time to time. Specifically, we will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. tax purposes for a taxable year if either (a) 75.0% or more of our gross income for such taxable year is passive income, or (b) 50.0% or more of the average percentage of our assets during such taxable year either produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income. For such purposes, if we directly or indirectly own 25.0% or more of the shares of another corporation, we generally will be treated as if we (a) held directly a proportionate share of the other corporation’s assets, and (b) received directly a proportionate share of the other corporation’s income. We do not believe that we are currently a PFIC. However, because the PFIC determination is highly fact intensive and made at the end of each taxable year, there can be no assurance that we will not be a PFIC for the current or any future taxable year or that the IRS will not challenge our determination concerning our PFIC status. Under recently enacted U.S. legislation and subject to future guidance, if we are a PFIC, U.S. Holders (as defined below) will be required to file, for returns due after March 18, 2010, an annual information return with the IRS relating to their ownership of our common shares or ADSs. Although expected, no guidance has yet been issued about such return, including on the information required to be reported on such return, the form of the return, or the due date for the return. For further discussion of the adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences of our possible classification as a PFIC, see Item 10 “Additional Information — Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation.” A prolonged slowdown in the PRC economy may materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial conditions, prospects and future expansion plans. Since the second half of 2008, global credit and capital markets, particularly in the United States and Europe, have experienced difficult conditions. These challenging market conditions have resulted in reduced liquidity, greater volatility, widening of credit spreads, lack of price transparency in credit markets, a reduction in available financing and lack of market confidence. These factors, combined with declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment in the United States and elsewhere in the world, have precipitated a global economic slowdown, including a slowdown in the rate of economic growth in recent quarters in China. Given the dramatic change in the overall credit environment and economy, it is difficult to predict how long these conditions will exist and the extent to which we may be affected. The uncertainty and volatility of credit and capital markets and the overall slowdown in the PRC economy may have an adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that measures implemented by governments around the world to stabilize the credit and capital markets and new economic stimulus measures in China will improve market confidence and the overall credit environment and economy. As a result, prolonged disruptions to the global credit and capital markets and the global economy may materially and adversely affect the Chinese economy, consumer spending in China and our business, results of operations, financial condition, prospect and future expansion plans. Risks Relating to Our Industry Our business might become subject to new regulatory restrictions, which may restrict the way in which we conduct our business and subject us to severe penalties, and we may be materially and adversely affected by any change in the composition of the primary telecommunications operators in China. We are subject to regulation by PRC law with respect to the products we manufacture and sell in China. We must obtain regulatory approvals from the national and local government authorities before we may manufacture and sell our products. The PRC Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, or MIIT, which was created by the State Council of the PRC in March 2008 to assume, among other things, the duties of the former Ministry of Information Industry, is the primary central government agency responsible for regulating the PRC wireless communication industry and has broad discretion and authority to regulate our industry in 15 Table of Contents China. The introduction of any new transmission protocol will require the approval of MIIT and other regulatory bodies. MIIT has adopted, and may adopt in the future, regulations that impose stringent standards on the wireless communication industry in China, with which we must comply. New regulations or readjustment of previously implemented regulations could require us to change our business plan, increase our costs or limit our ability to sell our products or services. Our failure to comply with these regulations may subject us to various penalties, including fines and suspension or discontinuation of our operations. Therefore, enactment by the PRC government of new laws or regulations or a change in the interpretation of existing laws or regulations may also materially and adversely affect our business. The PRC government has considerable control over the structure and overall development of the telecommunications industry in China. It also maintains substantial ownership in all major telecommunications operators in China. Prior to 1994, PRC government-controlled entities held a monopoly over the telecommunication networks across China. In order to introduce competition into the telecommunications industry, the PRC government in 1994 separated China’s telecommunication business into four independent sectors: fixed-line, wireless, satellite and paging. In 2002, the PRC government further separated the then China Telecom group into two companies along geographical boundaries, with the portion in southern China as the current China Telecom group and the northern portion as the current China Network Communications Group Corporation and its affiliates, or the China Netcom group. In May 2008, the PRC government announced a restructuring plan for the country’s telecommunications operators. Under the restructuring plan, the nation’s largest mobile phone operator, China Mobile, merged with fixed-line company, China Tietong. The GSM business of China Unicom, a wireless mobile phone operator, merged with fixed-line company China Netcom Group. China Telecom Corp., the country’s largest fixed-line phone operator, acquired China Unicom’s Code Division Multiple Access, or CDMA, mobile network business. China Telecom also acquired China Satcom, which offers satellite-based communications services. The restructuring of China’s telecommunications operators was completed in 2008. In January 2009, 3G licenses were issued by MIIT to China Unicom, China Mobile and China Telecom. The restructuring or any future significant restructuring of the telecommunications industry in China, however, may disrupt our existing relationships with our customers and result in changes in supplier and sourcing policies of these companies, all of which have been critical to our business growth and profitability. Risks Relating to Business Operations in China Changes in China’s political and economic policies and conditions could cause a substantial decline in the demand for our products and services. Historically, we derived almost all of our revenues from a single market, mainland China. We anticipate that mainland China will continue to be our primary production and sales base in the near future and currently almost all of our assets are located in China and all of our services are performed in China. While the PRC government has pursued economic reforms to transform its economy from a planned economy to a market-oriented economy since 1978, a large part of the PRC economy is still being operated under varying degrees of control by the PRC government. By imposing industrial policies and other economic measures, such as restrictions on lending to certain sectors of the economy, control of foreign exchange, taxation and restrictions on foreign participation in the domestic market of various industries, the PRC government exerts considerable direct and indirect influence on the development of the PRC economy. Many of the economic reforms carried out by the PRC government are unprecedented or experimental and are expected to be refined and improved. Other political, economic and social factors may also lead to further adjustments of the PRC reform measures. This refining and adjustment process may not necessarily have a positive effect on our operations and our future business development. For example, the PRC government has in the past implemented a number of measures intended to slow down certain segments of the PRC economy that the government believed to be overheating, including placing additional limitation on the ability of commercial banks to make loans by raising bank reserve-against-deposit rates. Our operating results may be materially and adversely affected by changes in the PRC economic and social conditions and by changes in the policies of the PRC government, such as measures to control inflation, changes in the rates or method of taxation and the imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion. Changes in foreign exchange regulation in China may affect our ability to pay dividends in foreign currencies. We currently receive all of our operating revenues in Renminbi. Currently, Renminbi is not a freely convertible currency and the restrictions on currency exchanges in China may limit our ability to use revenues generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside China or to make dividends or other payments in U.S. dollars. The PRC government strictly regulates conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies. Over the years, the PRC government has significantly reduced its control over routine foreign exchange transactions under current accounts, including trade- and service-related foreign exchange transactions, foreign debt service and payment of dividends. In accordance with the existing foreign exchange regulations in China, our PRC subsidiary, Shenzhen GrenTech, is able to pay dividends in foreign currencies, without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. The PRC government may, however, at its discretion, restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions and prohibit us from converting our Renminbi-denominated earnings into foreign currencies. If this occurs, our PRC subsidiary may not be able to pay us dividends in foreign currency without prior approval from SAFE. In addition, conversion of Renminbi for most capital account items, including direct investments, is still subject to government approval in China and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. This restriction may limit our ability to invest earnings of Shenzhen GrenTech. 16 Table of Contents Fluctuation in the value of Renminbi could adversely affect the value of, and dividends payable on, our shares and ADSs in foreign currency terms. The value of Renminbi is subject to changes in PRC government policies and depends to a large extent on China’s domestic and international economic, financial and political developments, as well as the currency’s supply and demand in the local market. For over a decade from 1994, the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including the U.S. dollar, was based on exchange rates set and published daily by the People’s Bank of China, or PBOC, the PRC central bank, based on the previous day’s interbank foreign exchange market rates in China and exchange rates on the world financial markets. The official exchange rate for the conversion of Renminbi into U.S. dollars remained stable until Renminbi was revalued in July 2005 and allowed to fluctuate by reference to a basket of foreign currencies, including the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, Renminbi was permitted to fluctuate within a band against a basket of foreign currencies. As a result, as of December 31, 2009, the Renminbi has appreciated significantly against the U.S. dollar since July 2005. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt a substantially more liberalized currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation in the value of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. Further revaluations of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar may also occur in the future. Since our income and profits are denominated in Renminbi, any appreciation of Renminbi would increase the value of, and any dividends payable on, our shares and ADSs in foreign currency terms. Conversely, any depreciation of Renminbi would decrease the value of, and any dividends payable on, our shares and ADSs in foreign currency terms. In addition, we have U.S. dollar-denominated bank deposits in our offshore bank account, which is subject to PRC foreign exchange control regulations and could not be exchanged into Renminbi freely, any appreciation of Renminbi could adversely affect the value of our U.S. dollar-denominated bank deposits. The uncertain legal environment in China could limit the legal protections available to you. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike the common law system, the civil law system is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In the late 1970s, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations to provide general guidance on economic and business practices in China and to regulate foreign investment. Our PRC subsidiary, Shenzhen GrenTech, is a wholly foreign-owned enterprise and is subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China in general and laws and regulations applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises in particular. China has made significant progress in the promulgation of laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. However, the promulgation of new laws, changes of existing laws and abrogation of local regulations by national laws may have a negative impact on our business and prospects. In addition, as these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent and because of the limited volume of published cases and their non-binding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws, regulations and legal requirements involve significant uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to foreign investors, including you. For example, it is not clear if a PRC court would enforce in China a foreign court decision brought by you against us in shareholders’ derivative actions. Moreover, the enforceability of contracts in China, especially with governmental entities, is relatively uncertain. If counterparties repudiated our contracts or defaulted on their obligations, we might not have adequate remedies. Such uncertainties or inability to enforce our contracts could materially and adversely affect our revenues and earnings. We may be subject to acts of God, acts of war and epidemics which are beyond our control and which may cause damage, loss or disruption to our business. Our business is subject to general economic and social conditions in the PRC. Natural disasters, epidemics and other acts of God which are beyond our control may adversely affect the economy, infrastructure and livelihood of the people in the PRC. Some cities in the PRC are under the threat of flood, earthquake, sandstorm, snowstorm, fire or drought. For instance, a serious earthquake and its successive aftershocks hit Sichuan province in May and June of 2008, resulting in tremendous loss of lives and injury and destruction of assets in the region. In April 2009, a swine influenza broke out in Mexico and spread globally, resulting in the loss of lives and widespread fear. Our business, financial condition and results of operation may be materially and adversely affected if such natural disasters occur. Certain areas of China are susceptible to epidemics, such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, or swine or avian influenza. A recurrence of SARS, an outbreak of swine or avian influenza, or any epidemic, in China, could result in material disruptions to our operations or a slowdown of China’s economy, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. Acts of war and terrorism may also injure our employees, cause loss of lives, damage our facility and destroy our markets, any of which could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operation. The potential for war or terrorist attacks may also cause uncertainty and cause our business to suffer in ways that we cannot predict. Our business, financial condition and results of operation may be materially and adversely affected as a result. 17 Table of Contents PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may limit our ability to acquire PRC companies and adversely affect our business and prospects. In October 2005, SAFE issued a circular concerning foreign exchange regulations on investments by PRC residents in China through special purpose companies incorporated overseas. The circular states that, if PRC residents use assets or equity interests in their domestic entities as capital contribution to establish offshore companies or inject assets or equity interests of their PRC entities into offshore companies to raise capital overseas, such PRC residents must register with local SAFE branches with respect to their overseas investments in offshore companies and must also file amendments to their registrations if their offshore companies experience material events, such as changes in share capital, share transfer, mergers and acquisitions, spin-off transactions or use of assets in China to guarantee offshore obligations. Our shareholders have completed the relevant SAFE registration procedures as currently required. As it is uncertain how SAFE will interpret or implement its circular, we cannot predict how this circular and other SAFE circulars will affect our business operations or future strategies. For example, we may be subject to more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our business and prospects. All participants in our existing equity compensation plan who are PRC citizens may be required to register with SAFE. We may also face regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our ability to adopt additional equity compensation plans for our directors, employees and other parties under PRC law. In December 2006, PBOC promulgated the Administrative Measures for Individual Foreign Exchange, which set forth the respective requirements for foreign exchange transactions by PRC individuals under either the current account or the capital account. The Implementation Rules of the Administrative Measures for Individual Foreign Exchange, issued in January 2007 by SAFE, specify the approval requirements for PRC citizens who are granted shares or share options by an overseas listed company according to its employee stock ownership plan or stock option plan. In March 2007, SAFE promulgated the Processing Guidance on Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plans or Stock Option Plans of Overseas-Listed Companies, or the Share Option Rule. According to the Share Option Rule, PRC citizens who are granted shares or share options by an overseas listed company according to its employee share option or share incentive plan are required, through the PRC subsidiary of such overseas listed company or other qualified PRC agents, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures related to the share option or other share incentive plan. Foreign exchange income from the sale of shares or dividends distributed by the overseas listed company may be remitted into a foreign currency account of such PRC citizen or be exchanged into Renminbi. In addition, the overseas listed company or its PRC subsidiary or other qualified PRC agent is required to appoint an asset manager or administrator, appoint a custodian bank and open dedicated foreign currency accounts to handle transactions relating to the share option scheme or other share incentive plan. We and our PRC citizen employees who have been and will be granted share options, or PRC option holders, are subject to these rules. If we or our PRC option holders fail to comply with these rules, we or our PRC option holders may be subject to fines and legal or administrative sanctions. We may incur substantial increases in labor cost due to the promulgation of the new labor contract law. In June 2007, the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress enacted the Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. Compared to the Labor Law, the Labor Contract Law establishes more restrictions and increases the cost to employers upon termination of employees, including specific provisions related to fixed-term employment contracts, temporary employment, probation, consultation with the labor union and employee general assembly, employment without a contract, dismissal of employees, compensation upon termination and overtime work, and collective bargaining. According to the Labor Contract Law, an employer is obligated to sign an unlimited term labor contract with an employee if the employer continues to employ the employee after two consecutive fixed term labor contracts. The employer also has to pay compensation to employees if the employer terminates an unlimited term labor contract. Unless an employee refuses to extend an expired labor contract, compensation is also required when the labor contract expires and the employer does not extend the labor contract with the employee under the same terms or better terms than those in the original contract. Further, under the Regulations on Paid Annual Leave for Employees, which became effective on January 1, 2008, employees who have served more than one year with an employer are entitled to a paid vacation ranging from five to 15 days, depending on their length of service. Employees who waive such vacation time at the request of employers shall be compensated at three times their normal salaries for each waived vacation day. As a result of these new protective labor measures, our labor costs may increase. We cannot give assurance that any disputes, work stoppages or strikes will not arise in the future. 18 Table of Contents 