ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risks and the risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” could materially affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. If any these risks materialize, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to the Operations and Business of PositiveID PositiveID has a history of losses, and expects to incur additional losses in the future. PositiveID is unable to predict the extent of future losses or when it will become profitable. For the year ended December 31, 2010, PositiveID has experienced operating losses of $15.9 million and its accumulated deficit at December 31, 2010 was $69.6 million. PositiveID expects to continue to incur operating losses for the near future. Its ability in the future to achieve or sustain profitability is based on a number of factors, many of which are beyond its control. Even if it achieves profitability in the future, it may not be able to sustain profitability in subsequent periods. PositiveID’s long-term capital needs may require additional sources of capital, and there can be no assurances that it will be successful in negotiating additional sources of long-term capital. PositiveID’s long-term capital needs may require additional sources of equity or credit. There can be no assurances any future Optimus tranches will close or that it will be successful in negotiating additional sources of equity or credit for its long-term capital needs. PositiveID’s inability to have continuous access to such financing at reasonable costs could materially and adversely impact its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. PositiveID has failed to meet applicable Nasdaq Stock Market requirements and as a result its stock could be delisted by the Nasdaq Stock Market. If delisting occurs, it would adversely affect the market liquidity of its common stock and harm its businesses. On September 13, 2010, PositiveID received a letter from the Nasdaq indicating that PositiveID is not in compliance with the Nasdaq’s requirements for continued listing because, for the 30 consecutive business days prior to September 13, 2010, the bid price of its common stock closed below the minimum $1.00 per share price requirement for continued listing under Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(a)(2) (the “Rule”). PositiveID had 180 calendar days (or until March 14, 2011) to regain compliance with the bid price requirement. On March 15, 2011, PositiveID received a letter from the Nasdaq staff notifying PositiveID of a staff determination that PositiveID has not regained compliance with the $1.00 per share minimum bid price requirement set forth in the Rule and that based on PositiveID’s financial statement information as of September 30, 2010 (i.e., the date of PositiveID’s most recent periodic report filed with the SEC), it was not eligible, in accordance with Listing Rule 5810(c)(3)(A)(ii), for a second 180-calendar day cure period with respect to the bid price deficiency. To be eligible for the additional 180-calendar day cure period, PositiveID would have had to meet the applicable standards for initial listing on The Nasdaq Capital Market (except the bid price requirement) based on its most recent public filings. The March 15, 2011 letter notes that PositiveID’s stockholders’ equity as of September 30, 2010 of $ 4,697,000 does not meet the $5 million initial listing requirement for The Nasdaq Capital Market. Nasdaq has advised PositiveID that it may appeal the Nasdaq staff's determination to a Nasdaq Hearings Panel (the "Panel") in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Nasdaq Listing Rule 5800 Series. The filing of the appeal will automatically stay any delisting procedures until after a hearing and the determination of the Panel. PositiveID requested a hearing on March 21, 2011, in accordance with applicable Listing Rules, and the hearing is currently scheduled for April 28, 2011. At the hearing, PositiveID will present a plan to regain compliance with the bid price requirement to the Panel and request that the Panel grant PositiveID an exception to Nasdaq’s continued listing standards for a sufficient period to implement that plan. Under Listing Rule 5815(c)(1), the Panel has the discretion to grant such an exception for a period not to exceed 180 days from the date of the staff determination letter & #150; that is, on or about September 15, 2011. There can be no assurance that the Panel will accept PositiveID’s compliance plan or grant PositiveID’s request for continued listing. If PositiveID’s common stock is delisted from the Nasdaq Stock Market, trading of its common stock most likely will be conducted in the over-the-counter market on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities, such as the OTC Bulletin Board. Delisting would adversely affect the market liquidity of its common stock and harm PositiveID’s business and may hinder or delay its ability to consummate potential strategic transactions or investments. Such delisting could also adversely affect PositiveID’s ability to obtain financing for the continuation of its operations and could result in the loss of confidence by investors, suppliers and employees. 16 Table of Contents Future sales of capital stock may cause our stock price to fall, including sales of shares to Optimus Technology Capital Partners, LLC (“Optimus”) pursuant to the Amended and Restated Convertible Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement (the “Amended Purchase Agreement”) and the resale of such shares by Optimus. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by our existing stockholders of shares of common stock in the market, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of March 21, 2011 2010, we had 37,265,076 shares of common stock outstanding (which includes 4,338,000 unvested shares of restricted stock granted to our employees), and we had warrants to purchase 304,000 shares of common stock and options to purchase 3,216,492 shares of common stock outstanding. All of the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of our outstanding warrants and any vested options will be freely tradable without restriction under the federal securities laws unless purchased by our affiliates. In addition, pursuant to the Amended Purchase Agreement, we may sell to Optimus up to an additional $4.0 million of our shares of Series C Preferred Stock, which are convertible into our common stock. The shares of common stock Optimus receives under the Amended Purchase Agreement are freely tradable and Optimus may promptly sell the shares we issue to them in the public markets. Such sales, and the potential for such sales, could cause the market price of our shares to decline significantly. To the extent of any such decline, any subsequent draw downs that we request under the Amended Purchase Agreement would require the issuance of a greater number of shares to Optimus. This may result in significant dilution to our stockholders. We do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends on our common stock. In July 2008 we declared, and in August 2008 we paid, a special cash dividend of $15.8 million on our capital stock. Any future determination with respect to the payment of dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will be dependent upon our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, general business conditions, terms of financing arrangements and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. In addition, our Amended Purchase Agreement with Optimus prohibits the payment of cash dividends on any of our capital stock except shares of Series C Preferred Stock while any shares of Series C Preferred Stock are outstanding. Compliance with changing regulations concerning corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. There have been changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, new regulations promulgated by the SEC and rules promulgated by the national securities exchanges and the NASDAQ. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. As a result, PositiveID’s efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards are likely to continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activi ties to compliance activities. PositiveID’s board members and executive officers could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, PositiveID may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm its business. If PositiveID’s efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies, it could be subject to liability under applicable laws or its reputation may be harmed. PositiveID depends on key personnel to manage its business effectively, and, if it is unable to hire, retain or motivate qualified personnel, its ability to design, develop, market and sell its systems could be harmed. PositiveID’s future success depends, in part, on certain key employees, including Scott R. Silverman, its chairman of the board and chief executive officer, and William J. Caragol, its president and chief financial officer, as well as key technical and operations personnel, and on PositiveID’s ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. The loss of the services of any of its key personnel may seriously harm its business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly operations, finance, accounting, sales and marketing personnel, may also seriously harm its business, financial condition and results of operations. PositiveID’s ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel will be a critical factor in determining whether we will be successful in the future. We will continue to incur the expenses of complying with public company reporting requirements. We have an obligation to continue to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, which includes the filing with the SEC of periodic reports, proxy statements and other documents relating to our business, financial conditions and other matters, even though compliance with such reporting requirements is economically burdensome. 17 Table of Contents Directors, executive officers, principal stockholders and affiliated entities own a significant percentage of PositiveID’s capital stock, and they may make decisions that you do not consider to be in the best interests of its stockholders. As of March 21, 2011, PositiveID’s current directors and executive officer beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 41% of PositiveID’s outstanding voting securities. As a result, if some or all of them acted together, they would have the ability to exert substantial influence over the election of the board of directors and the outcome of issues requiring approval by PositiveID’s stockholders. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of PositiveID that may be favored by other stockholders. This could prevent transactions in which stockholders might otherwise recover a premium for their shares over current market prices. Risks Related to PositiveID’s Product Development Efforts PositiveID and its development partner Receptors LLC are in the early stages of developing a rapid influenza detection system for the H1N1 virus and an in vivo glucose-sensing RFID microchip, the effectiveness of both of which is unproven. PositiveID and its development partner, Receptors, are engaged in the research and development of applying Receptors’ patented AFFINITY by DESIGNTM CARATM platform to the detection and classification of pandemic threat viruses, such as the H1N1 virus, as well as the research and development of an in vivo glucose-sensing RFID microchip. The effectiveness of this detection system and the effectiveness of this sensor/microchip system are yet to be determined. As a result, there can be no assurance that PositiveID and Receptors will be able to successfully employ these development-stage products as diagnostic solutions for either the detection of strains of influenza and other viruses or for the detection of glucose in vivo. Any failure to establish the efficacy or safety of these development-stage products could have a material adverse effect on PositiveID’s business, results of operations, and financial conditio n. PositiveID’s product research and development activities may not result in a commercially-viable rapid influenza detection system, in vivo glucose-sensing RFID microchip, Easy Check breath glucose detection system, or iglucose wireless communication device. All products are in the early stages of development, and are therefore prone to the risks of failure inherent in diagnostic product development. PositiveID or Receptors may be required to complete and undertake significant clinical trials to demonstrate to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, that these products are safe and effective to the satisfaction of the FDA and other non-United States regulatory authorities or for their respective, intended uses, or are substantially equivalent in terms of safety and effectiveness to existing, lawfully-marketed, non-premarket approved devices. Clinical trials are expensive and uncertain processes that often take years to complete. Failure can occur at any stage of the process, and successful early positive results do not ensure that the entire clinical trial or later clinical trials will be successful. Product candidates in clinical-stage trials may fail to show desired efficacy and safety traits despite early promising results. If the research and development activities of PositiveID or Receptors do not result in commercially-viable products, PositiveID’s business, results of operations, financial condition, and stock price could be adversely affected. Even if the FDA or similar non-United States regulatory authorities grant PositiveID regulatory approval of a product, the approval may take longer than PositiveID anticipates and may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or contain requirements for costly post-marketing follow up studies. Moreover, if PositiveID fails to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, PositiveID may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. The success and timing of development efforts, clinical trials, regulatory approvals, product introductions, collaboration and licensing arrangements, any termination of development efforts and other material events could cause volatility in our stock price. Volatility in PositiveID’s stock price will depend on many factors, including: · success of the development partnership between PositiveID and Receptors and related development costs; · success and timing of regulatory filings and approvals for the rapid influenza detection system and the in vivo glucose-sensing RFID microchip, the Easy Check breath glucose detection system, and the iglucose wireless communication device; · success and timing of commercialization and product introductions of the rapid influenza detection system and the in vivo glucose-sensing RFID microchip, the Easy Check breath glucose detection system, and the iglucose wireless communication device; · introduction of competitive products into the market; 18 Table of Contents · results of clinical trials for the rapid influenza detection system and the in vivo glucose-sensing RFID microchip, the Easy Check breath glucose detection system, and the iglucose wireless communication device; · a finding that Receptors’ patented AFFINITY by DESIGNTM CARATM platform is invalid or unenforceable, the Easy Check breath glucose detection system, and the iglucose wireless communication device; · a finding that the rapid influenza detection system or the in vivo glucose-sensing RFID microchip, the Easy Check breath glucose detection system, and the iglucose wireless communication device infringes the patents of a third party; · our ability to obtain a patent on the Easy Check breath glucose detection system and the iglucose wireless communication device; · payment of any royalty payments under licensing agreements; · unfavorable publicity regarding PositiveID, Receptors, or either of the companies’ products or competitive products; · termination of development efforts for the rapid influenza detection system, GlucoChip, which is the in vivo glucose-sensing RFID microchip, the Easy Check breath glucose detection system, or the iglucose wireless communication device; · timing of expenses PositiveID may incur with respect to any license or acquisition of products or technologies; and · termination of development efforts of any product under development or any development or collaboration agreement. PositiveID anticipates future losses and may require additional financing, and PositiveID’s failure to obtain additional financing when needed could force PositiveID to delay, reduce or eliminate PositiveID’s product development programs or commercialization efforts. PositiveID anticipates future losses and therefore may be dependent on additional financing to execute its business plan. Although PositiveID currently has the funding needed to pay for the planned development of its current projects, its plans for expansion may still require additional financing. In particular, PositiveID may require additional capital in order to continue to conduct the research and development and obtain regulatory clearances and approvals necessary to bring any future products to market and to establish effective marketing and sales capabilities for existing and future products. PositiveID’s operating plan may change, and it may need additional funds sooner than anticipated to meet its operational needs and capital requirements for product development, clinical trials and commercialization. Additional funds may not be available when PositiveID needs them on terms that are acceptable to PositiveID, or at all. If adeq uate funds are not available on a timely basis, PositiveID may terminate or delay the development of one or more of its products, or delay establishment of sales and marketing capabilities or other activities necessary to commercialize its products. Therefore, PositiveID does not know whether any planned development phases or clinical trials for the rapid influenza detection system or the in vivo glucose-sensing RFID microchip the Easy Check breath glucose detection system, or the iglucose wireless communication device will be completed on schedule, or at all. Furthermore, PositiveID cannot guarantee that any planned development phases or clinical trials will begin on time or at all. PositiveID’s future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: the costs of expanding PositiveID’s sales and marketing infrastructure and manufacturing operations; the degree of success PositiveID experiences in developing and commercializing the rapid influenza detection system and the in vivo glucose-sensing RFID microchip; the Easy Check breath glucose detection system, and the iglucose wireless communication device; the number and types of future products PositiveID develops and commercializes; the costs, timing and outcomes of regulatory reviews associated with PositiveID’s current and future product candidates; the costs of preparing, filing and prosecuting patent applications and maintaining, enforcing and defending intellectual property-related claims; and the extent and scope of PositiveID’s general and administrative expenses. PositiveID’s future product development efforts may not yield marketable products due to results of studies or trials, failure to achieve regulatory approvals or market acceptance, proprietary rights of others or manufacturing issues. Development of a product candidate requires substantial technical, financial and human resources. PositiveID’s potential product candidates may appear to be promising at various stages of development yet fail to timely reach the market for a number of reasons, including: the lack of adequate quality or sufficient prevention benefit, or unacceptable safety during preclinical studies or clinical trials; PositiveID’s or its collaborative development partners’ failure to receive necessary regulatory approvals on a timely basis, or at all; the existence of proprietary rights of third parties; or the inability to develop manufacturing methods that are efficient, cost-effective and capable of meeting stringent regulatory standards. PositiveID’s industry changes rapidly as a result of technological and product developments, which may quickly render PositiveID’s product candidates less desirable or even obsolete. If PositiveID is unable or unsuccessful in supplementing its product offerings, its revenue and operating results may be materially adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents The industry in which PositiveID operates is subject to rapid technological change. The introduction of new technologies in the market, including the delay in the adoption of these technologies, as well as new alternatives for the delivery of products and services will continue to have a profound effect on competitive conditions in this market. PositiveID may not be able to develop and introduce new products, services and enhancements that respond to technological changes on a timely basis. If PositiveID’s product candidates are not accepted by the market as anticipated, if at all, PositiveID’s business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. If PositiveID or Receptors are unable to develop and later market the products under development in a timely manner or at all, or if competitors develop or introduce similar products that achieve commercialization before the products enter the market, the demand for the products may decrease or the products could become obsolete. The products will operate in competitive markets, where competitors may already be well established. PositiveID expects that competitors will continue to innovate and to develop and introduce similar products that could be competitive in both price and performance. Competitors may succeed in developing or introducing similar products earlier than PositiveID or Receptors, obtaining regulatory approvals and clearances for such products before the products are approved and cleared, or developing more effective products. In addition, competitors may have products that have already been approved or are in a stage of advanced development, which may achieve commercialization before the products enter the market. If a competitor’s products reach the market before the products, they may gain a competitive advantage, impair the ability of PositiveID or Receptors to commercialize the products, or render the products obsolete. There can be no assurance that developments by competitors will not render the products obsolete or noncompetitive. PositiveID’s financial performance may be negatively impacted if a competitor’s successful product innovation reaches the market before the products or gains broader market acceptance. PositiveID believes that the products have certain technological advantages, but maintaining these advantages will require continual investment in research and development, and later in sales and marketing. There is no guarantee that PositiveID or Receptors will be successful in maintaining these advantages. Nor is there any guarantee that PositiveID or Receptors will be successful in completing development of the products in any clinical trials or in achieving sales of the products, or that future margins on such products will be acceptable. Risks Occasioned by the Xmark Transaction PositiveID will be unable to compete with Xmark’s business for four years from the date of closing. PositiveID has agreed that, for a period of four years after the closing of the Xmark Transaction, or July 2012, it will not (i) directly or indirectly participate with, control or own an interest in any entity that is engaged in the business of manufacturing, selling, financing, supplying, marketing or distributing infant security systems, wander prevention systems, asset/personnel and identification systems, and vibration monitoring instruments anywhere in the world or (ii) solicit, induce, encourage or attempt to persuade any employee of Xmark to terminate his or her employment relationship with Xmark, or offer to hire any Xmark employee. PositiveID’s remaining business, the VeriMed business, is not deemed to compete with Xmark’s business. However, the non-compete provisions will restrict its ability to engage in any business that competes with Xmark’s business until July 2012. Industry and Business Risks Related to Our ID Security Business If PositiveID loses its ability to purchase data from a credit data reseller, some of which are PositiveID’s competitor, which credit data reseller purchases the data from the three major credit reporting repositories, demand for its services would decrease. PositiveID relies on credit data resellers, who in turn rely on the three major credit reporting repositories, Equifax, Experian and TransUnion, to provide it with essential data for its consumer identity theft protection and credit management services. Each of the three major credit reporting repositories owns its consumer credit data and is a competitor of PositiveID in providing credit information directly to consumers, and may decide that it is in their competitive interests to stop indirectly supplying data to PositiveID. Any interruption, deterioration or termination of PositiveID’s relationship with its credit data reseller, or one or more of the three credit reporting repositories would be disruptive to PositiveID’s business and could cause PositiveID to lose subscribers. PositiveID’s competitors, including those who have greater resources and experience than PositiveID has, may commercialize technologies that make PositiveID’s obsolete or noncompetitive. There are many public and private companies, actively engaged in PositiveID’s line of business and that target the same markets that it targets. Some of PositiveID’s current competitors have significantly greater financial, marketing and product development resources than PositiveID does. Low barriers to entry into its line of business may result in new competitors entering the markets PositiveID serves. If PositiveID’s competitors market products that are more effective and less expensive than its products, PositiveID may not be able to achieve commercial success. 20 Table of Contents Industry and Business Risks Related to Our HealthID Business PositiveID may never achieve market acceptance or significant sales of its healthcare products or systems. Through March 21, 2011, substantially all of PositiveID’s health care products were under development and had generated only nominal revenue. It may never achieve market acceptance or more than nominal or modest sales of these products and systems. PositiveID is currently focused on the development of the glucose sensing microchip and the development of other sensor applications, its iglucose and Easy Check systems, its Rapid Influenza Detection System, and is considering and will review other strategic opportunities. However, there can be no assurance that PositiveID will be able to successfully develop or implement such options or strategic alternatives Implantation of PositiveID’s implantable microchip may be found to cause risks to a person’s health, which could adversely affect sales of its systems that incorporate the implantable microchip. The implantation of PositiveID’s implantable microchip may be found, or be perceived, to cause risks to a person’s health. Potential or perceived risks include adverse tissue reactions, migration of the microchip and infection from implantation. There have been articles published asserting, despite numerous studies to the contrary, that the implanted microchip causes malignant tumor formation in laboratory animals. If more people are implanted with PositiveID’s implantable microchip, it is possible that these and other risks to health will manifest themselves. Actual or perceived risks to a person’s health associated with the microchip implantation process could constrain its sales of the VeriMed system or result in costly and expensive litigation. Further, the potential resultant negative publicity could damage its business reputation, leading to loss in sales of PositiveID’s other systems targeted at the healthcare market which would harm its business and negatively affect its prospects. If PositiveID is required to effect a recall of its implantable microchip, its reputation could be materially and adversely affected and the cost of any such recall could be substantial, which could adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. From time to time, implanted devices have become subject to recall due to safety, efficacy, product failures or other concerns. To date, PositiveID has not had to recall any of its implantable microchips. However, if, in the future, it is required to affect such a recall, the cost of the recall, and the likely related loss of system sales, could be substantial and could materially and adversely affect PositiveID’s results of operations and financial condition. In addition, any such recall could materially adversely affect its reputation and its ability to sell its systems that make use of the implantable microchip which would harm its business and negatively affect its prospects. Interruptions in access to, or the hacking into, PositiveID’s Health Link PHR or its VeriMed patient information database may damage its reputation and expose PositiveID to litigation or government penalties. Reliable access to the Health Link PHR or the VeriMed patient information database is a key component of the functionality of those systems. Its ability to provide uninterrupted access to the database, whether operated by it or one or more third parties with whom PositiveID contracts, will depend on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of the server and network systems involved. Although certain elements of technological, power, communications, personnel and site redundancy are maintained, the databases may not be fully redundant. Further, the database may not function properly if certain necessary third-party systems fail, or if some other unforeseen act or natural disaster should occur. In the past, PositiveID has experienced short periods during which the database was inaccessible as a result of development work, system maintenance and power outages. Any disruption of the database services, computer systems or communications networks , or those of third parties that we rely on, could result in the inability of users to access the database for an indeterminate period of time. This, in turn, could cause PositiveID to lose the confidence of the healthcare community and persons who have undergone the microchip implant procedure, resulting in a loss of revenue and possible litigation. In addition, if the firewall software protecting the information contained in PositiveID’s database fails or someone is successful in hacking into the database, it could face damage to its business reputation and litigation. To the extent that inadequate firewalls or hacking results in a compromise of security of protected health information that PositiveID may hold as a “business associate” under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, or HIPAA, PositiveID could be subject to government fines and penalties. Regulation of products and services that collect personally-identifiable information or otherwise monitor an individual’s activities may make the provision of PositiveID’s services more difficult or expensive and could jeopardize its growth prospects. Certain technologies that PositiveID currently, or may in the future, support are capable of collecting personally-identifiable information. A growing body of laws designed to protect the privacy of personally- identifiable information, as well as to protect against its misuse, and the judicial interpretations of such laws, may adversely affect the growth of PositiveID’s business. In the U.S., these laws include HIPAA, the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act, the Electronic Communications Privacy Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, as well as various 21 Table of Contents state laws and related regulations. Although PositiveID is not a covered entity under HIPAA, it has entered into agreements with certain covered entities in which it is considered to be a “business associate” under HIPAA. As a business associate, PositiveID is required to implement policies, procedures and reasonable and appropriate security measures to protect individually identifiable health information it receives from covered entities. PositiveID’s failure to protect health information received from customers could subject it to liability, government penalties, and adverse publicity, and could harm its business and impair its ability to attract new customers. In addition, certain governmental agencies, like the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and the Federal Trade Commission, have the authority to protect against the misuse of consumer information by targeting companies that collect, disseminate or maintain personal information in an unfair or deceptive manner. PositiveID is also subject to the laws of those foreign jurisdictions in which it operates, some of which currently have more protective privacy laws. If PositiveID fails to comply with applicable regulations in this area, its business and prospects could be harmed. Certain regulatory approvals generally must be obtained from the governments of the countries in which its foreign distributors sell its systems. However, any such approval may be subject to significant delays or may not be obtained. Any actions by regulatory agencies could materially and adversely affect PositiveID’s growth plans and the success of its business. If PositiveID fails to comply with anti-kickback and false claims laws, it could be subject to costly and time-consuming litigation and possible fines or other penalties. PositiveID is, or may become subject to, various federal and state laws designed to address healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. The federal anti-kickback statute prohibits the offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for referring items or services payable by Medicare, Medicaid or any other federally-funded healthcare program. This statute also prohibits remuneration in return for purchasing, leasing or ordering or arranging, or recommending the purchasing, leasing or ordering, of items or services payable by Medicare, Medicaid or any other federally-funded healthcare program. The anti-kickback laws of various states apply more broadly to prohibit remuneration in return for referrals of business payable by payers other than federal healthcare programs. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, for payment to third-party payers, including Medicare and Medicaid, which currently do not provide reimbursement for its microchip implant procedure, claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed, or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. PositiveID’s activities relating to the reporting of wholesale or estimated retail prices of its VeriMed system, the reporting of Medicaid rebate information, and other information affecting federal, state and third-party payment for the VeriMed system, if such payment becomes available, will be subject to scrutiny under these laws. The anti-kickback statute and other fraud and abuse laws are very broad in scope, and many of their provisions have not been uniformly or definitively interpreted by existing case law or regulations. Violations of the anti-kickback statute and other fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from federal healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, which currently do not provide reimbursement for our microchip implant procedure. PositiveID has not been challenged by a governmental authority under any of these laws and believes that its operations are in compliance with such laws. However, because of the far-reaching nature of these laws, it may be required to alter one or more of its practices to be in compliance with these laws. Healthcare fraud and abuse regulations are complex and even minor, inadvertent irregular ities in submissions can potentially give rise to claims that the statute has been violated. If PositiveID is found to have violated these laws, or are charged with violating them, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer, and its management team could be required to dedicate significant time and resources addressing the actual or alleged violations. 22 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 