ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this report, including the consolidated financial statements and the related notes appearing at the end of this annual report on Form 10-K, before deciding to invest in shares of our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks related to our business and industry Our success is dependent on the success of our three product candidates in clinical development: iloperidone, VEC-162 and VSF-173. If any of these product candidates are determined to be unsafe or ineffective in humans, whether in clinical trials or commercially, our business will be materially harmed. Despite the positive results of our recently completed Phase III trials, we are uncertain whether any of our current product candidates in clinical development will ultimately prove to be effective and safe in humans. Frequently, product candidates that have shown promising results in clinical trials have suffered significant setbacks in later clinical trials or even after they are approved for commercial sale. Future uses of any of our product candidates, whether in clinical trials or commercially, may reveal that the product candidate is ineffective, unacceptably toxic, has other undesirable side effects or is otherwise not fit for further use. If we are unable to discover and develop products that are safe and effective, our business will be materially harmed. Any failure or delay in completing clinical trials for our product candidates could severely harm our business. Pre-clinical studies and clinical trials required to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates are time-consuming and expensive and together take several years to complete. The completion of clinical trials for our product candidates may be delayed by many factors, including: • our inability to manufacture or obtain from third parties materials sufficient for use in pre-clinical studies and clinical trials 20 Table of Contents • delays in patient enrollment and variability in the number and types of patients available for clinical trials • difficulty in maintaining contact with patients after treatment, resulting in incomplete data • poor effectiveness of product candidates during clinical trials • unforeseen safety issues or side effects • governmental or regulatory delays and changes in regulatory requirements and guidelines If we fail to successfully complete one or more clinical trials for any of our product candidates, we may not receive the regulatory approvals needed to market that product candidate. Therefore, any failure or delay in commencing or completing these clinical trials would harm our business materially. We face heavy government regulation, and FDA regulatory approval of our products is uncertain. The research, testing, manufacturing and marketing of drug products such as those that we are developing are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local government authorities, including the FDA. To obtain regulatory approval of a product, we must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the applicable regulatory agency that, among other things, the product is safe and effective for its intended use. In addition, we must show that the manufacturing facilities used to produce the products are in compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices regulations, or cGMP. The process of obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals and clearances will require us to expend substantial time and capital. Despite the time and expense expended, regulatory approval is never guaranteed. The number of pre-clinical and clinical tests that will be required for FDA approval varies depending on the drug candidate, the disease or condition that the drug candidate is in development for, and the regulations applicable to that particular drug candidate. The FDA can delay, limit or deny approval of a drug candidate for many reasons, including that: • a drug candidate may not be safe or effective • they may interpret data from pre-clinical and clinical testing in different ways than we do • they may not approve our manufacturing process • they may change their approval policies or adopt new regulations For example, if certain of our methods for analyzing our trial data are not approved by the FDA, we may fail to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates. Moreover, if and when our products do obtain such approval or clearances, the marketing, distribution and manufacture of such products would remain subject to extensive ongoing regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in: • warning letters • fines • civil penalties • injunctions • recall or seizure of products • total or partial suspension of production • refusal of the government to grant approvals • withdrawal of approvals • criminal prosecution 21 Table of Contents Any delay or failure by us to obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates could diminish competitive advantages that we may attain and would adversely affect the marketing of our products. We have not received regulatory approval to market any of our product candidates in any jurisdiction. Even if we do receive regulatory approval for our drug candidates, the FDA may impose limitations on the indicated uses for which our products may be marketed, subsequently withdraw approval or take other actions against us or our products that are adverse to our business. The FDA generally approves products for particular indications. An approval for a more limited indication reduces the size of the potential market for the product. Product approvals, once granted, may be withdrawn if problems occur after initial marketing. We also are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws, regulations and recommendations relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices, the environment and the use and disposal of hazardous substances used in connection with our discovery, research and development work. In addition, we cannot predict the extent of government regulations or the impact of new governmental regulations that might significantly harm the discovery, development, production and marketing of our products. We may be required to incur significant costs to comply with current or future laws or regulations, and we may be adversely affected by the cost of such compliance. We intend to seek regulatory approvals for our products in foreign jurisdictions, but we may not obtain any such approvals. We intend to market our products outside the United States with one or more commercial partners. In order to market our products in foreign jurisdictions, we may be required to obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. The approval procedure varies among countries and jurisdictions and can involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. We have no experience with obtaining any such foreign approvals. Additionally, the foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. For all of these reasons, we may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or jurisdictions or by the FDA. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market. The failure to obtain these approvals could harm our business materially. Our product candidates may cause undesirable side effects or have other properties that could delay or prevent their regulatory approval or limit their marketability. Undesirable side effects caused by our product candidates could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in the denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for any or all targeted indications, and in turn prevent us from commercializing our product candidates and generating revenues from their sale. For example, like many other drugs in its class, iloperidone is associated with a prolongation of the heart’s QTc interval, which is a measurement of specific electrical activity in the heart as captured on an electrocardiogram, corrected for heart rate. A QTc interval that is significantly prolonged may result in an abnormal heart rhythm with adverse consequences including fainting, dizziness, loss of consciousness and death. No patient in the controlled portion of any of iloperidone’s clinical trials was observed to have an interval that exceeded a 500-millisecond threshold of particular concern to the FDA. Two patients experienced a prolongation of 500 milliseconds or more during the open-label extension of one trial. We will continue to assess the side effect profile of iloperidone and our other product candidates in our ongoing clinical development program. In addition, if any of our product candidates receive marketing approval and we or others later identify undesirable side effects caused by the product, we could face one or more of the following: • regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, such as a “black box” warning or a contraindication 22 Table of Contents • regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product • we may be required to change the way the product is administered, conduct additional clinical trials or change the labeling of the product • our reputation may suffer Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing the product candidate, which in turn could delay or prevent us from generating significant revenues from its sale. Our product candidates may never achieve market acceptance even if we obtain regulatory approvals. Even if we receive regulatory approvals for the sale of our product candidates, the commercial success of these products will depend, among other things, on their acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payors and other members of the medical community as a therapeutic and cost-effective alternative to competing products and treatments. The degree of market acceptance of any of our product candidates will depend on a number of factors, including the demonstration of its safety and efficacy, its cost-effectiveness, its potential advantages over other therapies, the reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors with respect to the product candidate, and the effectiveness of our marketing and distribution capabilities. If our product candidates fail to gain market acceptance, we may be unable to earn sufficient revenue to continue our business. If our product candidates do not become widely accepted by physicians, patients, third-party payors and other members of the medical community, it is unlikely that we will ever become profitable. If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our research and development activities, we may be unable to continue operations or we may be forced to share our rights to commercialize our product candidates with third parties on terms that may not be attractive to us. Based on our current operating plans, we believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, including the proceeds from the follow-on offering we completed in January 2007, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating needs through early 2008, and after that time we will require additional capital. In budgeting for our activities, we have relied on a number of assumptions, including assumptions that we will file an NDA for iloperidone in schizophrenia with the FDA by the end of 2007, that we will continue to expend funds in preparation of a commercial launch of iloperidone, that we will expend funds on the extended-release injectable formulation of iloperidone, that we will initiate at least one additional VEC-162 Phase III trial for chronic sleep disorders in the second half of 2007 and that this trial will be conducted in accordance with our expectations, that we will initiate our VSF-173 Phase II trial for excessive sleepiness in mid-2007 and that this trial will be conducted in accordance with our expectations, that we will not engage in further in-licensing activities, that we will not receive any proceeds from potential partnerships, that we will not expend funds on the bipolar indication for iloperidone or on a Phase II trial of VEC-162 for depression, that we will continue to evaluate pre-clinical compounds for potential development, that we will be able to continue the manufacturing of our product candidates at commercially reasonable prices, that we will be able to retain our key personnel, and that we will not incur any significant contingent liabilities. We may need to raise additional funds more quickly if one or more of our assumptions proves to be incorrect or if we choose to expand our product development efforts more rapidly than presently anticipated or seek to acquire additional product candidates, and we may also decide to raise additional funds even before they are needed if the conditions for raising capital are favorable. We may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a bank credit facility. The sale of additional equity or debt securities, if convertible, could result in dilution to our stockholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased fixed obligations and could also result in covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot assure you that additional funds will be available when we need them on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. The unavailability of financing may require us to delay, scale back or eliminate expenditures for our research, development and marketing activities necessary to commercialize our potential 23 Table of Contents biopharmaceutical products. If we are unable to secure sufficient capital to fund our research and development activities, we may not be able to continue operations or we may have to enter into collaboration agreements that could require us to share commercial rights to our products to a greater extent or at earlier stages in the drug development process than we currently intend. Collaborations that are consummated by us prior to proof-of-efficacy and safety of a product candidate could impair our ability to realize value from that product candidate. We have engaged an investment bank to provide strategic and financial advisory services to the Company, which may lead to one or more possible transactions, including the acquisition, licensing or sale by the Company of one or more product candidates, or the acquisition of the Company. However, we can not assure you that we will complete any acquisitions, sales or licenses or that, if completed, any acquisition, sale or license will be successful or on attractive terms. We have incurred operating losses in each year since our inception and expect to continue to incur substantial and increasing losses for the foreseeable future. We have a limited operating history. We have not generated any revenue from product sales to date and we cannot estimate with precision the extent of our future losses. We do not currently have any products that have been approved for commercial sale and we may never generate revenue from selling products or achieve profitability. We expect to continue to incur substantial and increasing losses for the foreseeable future, particularly as we increase our research, clinical development and administrative activities. As a result, we are uncertain when or if we will achieve profitability and, if so, whether we will be able to sustain it. We have been engaged in identifying and developing compounds and product candidates since March 2003. As of December 31, 2006, we have accumulated net losses of approximately $99.8 million. Our ability to achieve revenue and profitability is dependent on our ability to complete the development of our product candidates, obtain necessary regulatory approvals, and have our products manufactured and marketed. We cannot assure you that we will be profitable even if we successfully commercialize our products. Failure to become and remain profitable may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to raise capital and continue operations. If our contract research organizations do not successfully carry out their duties or if we lose our relationships with contract research organizations, our drug development efforts could be delayed. We are dependent on contract research organizations, third-party vendors and investigators for pre-clinical testing and clinical trials related to our drug discovery and development efforts and we will likely continue to depend on them to assist in our future discovery and development efforts. These parties are not our employees and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. If they fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our drug development programs or if their performance is substandard, it will delay the development and commercialization of our product candidates. The parties with which we contract for execution of our clinical trials play a significant role in the conduct of the trials and the subsequent collection and analysis of data. Their failure to meet their obligations could adversely affect clinical development of our product candidates. Moreover, these parties may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. If they assist our competitors, it could harm our competitive position. If we lose our relationship with any one or more of these parties, we could experience a significant delay in both identifying another comparable provider and then contracting for its services. We may be unable to retain an alternative provider on reasonable terms, if at all. Even if we locate an alternative provider, it is likely that this provider may need additional time to respond to our needs and may not provide the same type or level of service as the original provider. In addition, any provider that we retain will be subject to current Good Laboratory Practices, or cGLP, and similar foreign standards and we do not have control over compliance with these regulations by these providers. Consequently, if these practices and standards are not adhered to by these providers, the development and commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed. 24 Table of Contents If our Common Technical Dossier (CTD) contractors do not successfully carry out their duties or if we lose our relations with our CTD contractors, our NDA for iloperidone could be delayed. We are dependent on third-party vendors for the preparation of our CTD related to the NDA we expect to file for iloperidone by the end of 2007. These parties are not our employees and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our program. If they fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our NDA preparation or if their performance is substandard, it will delay the approval of iloperidone. If we lose our relationship with any one or more of these third parties, we could experience a significant delay in both identifying another comparable provider and then contracting for its services. We may be unable to retain an alternative provider on reasonable terms, if at all. Even if we locate an alternative provider, it is likely that this provider may need additional time to respond to our needs and may not provide the same type or level of service as the original provider. Consequently, the NDA and commercialization of iloperidone could be delayed. We rely on a limited number of manufacturers for our product candidates and our business will be seriously harmed if these manufacturers are not able to satisfy our demand and alternative sources are not available. We do not have an in-house manufacturing capability and depend completely on a small number of third-party manufacturers and active pharmaceutical ingredient formulators for the manufacture of our product candidates. We do not have long-term agreements with any of these third parties, and if they are unable or unwilling to perform for any reason, we may not be able to locate alternative acceptable manufacturers or formulators or enter into favorable agreements with them. Any inability to acquire sufficient quantities of our product candidates in a timely manner from these third parties could delay clinical trials and prevent us from developing our product candidates in a cost-effective manner or on a timely basis. In addition, manufacturers of our product candidates are subject to cGMP and similar foreign standards and we do not have control over compliance with these regulations by our manufacturers. If one of our contract manufacturers fails to maintain compliance, the production of our product candidates could be interrupted, resulting in delays and additional costs. In addition, if the facilities of such manufacturers do not pass a pre-approval plant inspection, the FDA will not grant pre-market approval of our products. Our manufacturing strategy presents the following additional risks: • the manufacturing process for VSF-173 has not been tested in quantities needed for continued clinical trials or commercial sales, and delays in scale-up to commercial quantities of VEC-162 and VSF-173 could delay clinical trials, regulatory submissions and commercialization of these product candidates • because most of our third-party manufacturers and formulators are located outside of the United States, there may be difficulties in importing our compounds or their components into the United States as a result of, among other things, FDA import inspections, incomplete or inaccurate import documentation or defective packaging • because of the complex nature of our compounds, our manufacturers may not be able to successfully manufacture our compounds in a cost-effective and/or timely manner Materials necessary to manufacture our product candidates may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, which may delay the development, regulatory approval and commercialization of our product candidates. We rely on our manufacturers to purchase from third-party suppliers the materials necessary to produce our product candidates for our clinical trials. Suppliers may not sell these materials to our manufacturers at the times we need them or on commercially reasonable terms. We do not have any control over the process or timing of the acquisition of these materials by our manufacturers. Moreover, we currently do not have any agreements for the commercial production of these materials. If our manufacturers are unable to obtain these materials for our clinical trials, product testing and potential regulatory approval of our product candidates 25 Table of Contents could be delayed, significantly affecting our ability to develop our product candidates. If we or our manufacturers are unable to purchase these materials after regulatory approval has been obtained for our product candidates, the commercial launch of our product candidates would be delayed or there would be a shortage in supply, which would materially affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our product candidates. We face substantial competition which may result in others developing or commercializing products before or more successfully than we do. Our future success will depend on our ability to demonstrate and maintain a competitive advantage with respect to our product candidates and our ability to identify and develop additional product candidates through the application of our pharmacogenetics and pharmacogenomics expertise. Large, fully integrated pharmaceutical companies, either alone or together with collaborative partners, have substantially greater financial resources and have significantly greater experience than we do in: • developing products • undertaking pre-clinical testing and clinical trials • obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products • manufacturing and marketing products These companies may invest heavily and quickly to discover and develop novel products that could make our product candidates obsolete. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining patent protection, receiving FDA approval or commercializing superior products or other competing products before we do. We believe the primary competitors for each of our product candidates are as follows: • For iloperidone in the treatment of schizophrenia, the atypical antipsychotics Risperdal® (risperidone) by Johnson & Johnson (including the depot formulation RisperdalConsta®), Zyprexa® (olanzapine) by Eli Lilly and Company, Seroquel® (quetiapine) by AstraZeneca PLC, Abilify® (aripiprazole) by Bristol-Myers Squibb Company/Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Geodon® (ziprasidone) by Pfizer Inc., Invega® (paliperidone) by Johnson & Johnson, and generic clozapine, as well as the typical antipsychotics haloperidol, chlorpromazine, thioridazine, and sulpiride (all of which are generic). In addition to the approved products, compounds in Phase III trials (or for which an NDA has been recently filed) for the treatment of schizophrenia include bifeprunox (Wyeth/Solvay S.A./Lundbeck A/S), and asenapine (Organon International). • For VEC-162 in the treatment of insomnia, Rozeremtm (ramelteon) by Takeda Pharmaceuticals Company Limited, hypnotics such as Ambien® (zolpidem) by sanofi-aventis (including Ambien CR®), Lunesta® (eszopiclone) by Sepracor Inc. and Sonata® (zaleplon) by King Pharmaceuticals, Inc., generic compounds such as trazodone and doxepin, and over-the-counter remedies such as Benadryl® and Tylenol PM®. In addition to the approved products, compounds in Phase III trials for insomnia include indiplon (Neurocrine Biosciences, Inc.) gaboxadol (Merck & Co., Inc./Lundbeck A/S), and low-dose doxepin (Silenortm, Somaxon Pharmaceuticals, Inc.). • For VEC-162 in the treatment of depression, antidepressants such as Paxil® (paroxetine) by GlaxoSmithKline (GSK), Zoloft® (sertraline) by Pfizer, Prozac® (fluoxetine) by Eli Lilly, Lexapro (escitalopram) by Lundbeck A/S /Forest Pharmaceuticals Inc., and Effexor® (venlafaxine) by Wyeth as well as other compounds such as Wellbutrin® (buproprion) by GSK and Cymbalta® (duloxetine) by Eli Lilly. In addition to the approved products, compounds in Phase III trials for depression include agomelatine (Novartis and Les Laboratoires Servier). • For VSF-173 in the treatment of excessive sleepiness, Provigil® (modafinil) and NuVigil® (armodafinil) by Cephalon Inc., and Xyrem® (sodium oxybate) by Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 26 Table of Contents We have no experience selling, marketing or distributing products and no internal capability to do so. At present, we have limited marketing and no sales personnel. In order for us to commercialize any of our product candidates, we must either acquire or internally develop sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, or enter into collaborations with partners to perform these services for us. We may not be able to establish sales and distribution partnerships on acceptable terms or at all, and if we do enter into a distribution arrangement, our success will be dependent upon the performance of our partner. In the event that we attempt to acquire or develop our own in-house sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize our products without partners or licensees include: • our inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel • the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe our product • the lack of complementary products to be offered by our sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage against companies with broader product lines • unforeseen costs associated with creating our own sales and marketing team or with entering into a partnering agreement with an independent sales and marketing organization We will need to increase the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing our growth. As of December 31, 2006, we had 44 full-time employees. We will need to continue to expand our managerial, operational, financial and other resources in order for us to manage and fund our operations, continue our development activities and commercialize our product candidates. Our current personnel, systems and facilities are not adequate to support this future growth. To manage our growth, we must: • manage our clinical trials effectively • manage our internal development efforts effectively • improve our operational, financial, accounting and management controls, reporting systems and procedures • attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees We may be unable to successfully implement these tasks on a larger scale and, accordingly, may not achieve our development and commercialization goals. If we cannot identify, or enter into licensing arrangements for, new product candidates, our ability to develop a diverse product portfolio may be limited. A component of our business strategy is acquiring rights to develop and commercialize compounds discovered or developed by other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for which we may find effective uses and markets by using our unique pharmacogenetics and pharmacogenomics expertise. Competition for the acquisition of these compounds is intense. If we are not able to identify opportunities to acquire rights to commercialize additional products, we may not be able to develop a diverse portfolio of products and our business may be harmed. Additionally, it may take substantial human and financial resources to secure commercial rights to promising product candidates. Moreover, if other firms develop pharmacogenetics and pharmacogenomics capabilities, we may face increased competition in identifying and acquiring additional product candidates. If we lose key scientists or management personnel, or if we fail to recruit additional highly skilled personnel, it will impair our ability to identify, develop and commercialize product candidates. We are highly dependent on principal members of our management team and scientific staff, including our Chief Executive Officer, Mihael H. Polymeropoulos, M.D. These executives each have significant 27 Table of Contents pharmaceutical industry experience. The loss of any such executives, including Dr. Polymeropoulos, or any other principal member of our management team or scientific staff, would impair our ability to identify, develop and market new products. Product liability lawsuits could divert our resources, result in substantial liabilities and reduce the commercial potential of our products. The risk that we may be sued on product liability claims is inherent in the development of pharmaceutical products. For example, we face a risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of our product candidates in clinical trials and will face even greater risks upon any commercialization by us of our product candidates. We believe that we may be at a greater risk of product liability claims relative to other pharmaceutical companies because our compounds are intended to treat behavioral disorders, and it is possible that we may be held liable for the behavior and actions of patients who use our compounds. These lawsuits may divert our management from pursuing our business strategy and may be costly to defend. In addition, if we are held liable in any of these lawsuits, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be forced to limit or forego further commercialization of one or more of our products. Although we maintain general liability and product liability insurance, our aggregate coverage limit under this insurance is $10,000,000, and while we believe this amount of insurance is sufficient to cover our product liability exposure, these limits may not be high enough to fully cover potential liabilities. In addition, product liability insurance is becoming increasingly expensive, and we may not be able to obtain or maintain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims, which could prevent or inhibit the commercial production and sale of our products. Legislative or regulatory reform of the healthcare system in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions may affect our ability to sell our products profitably. The continuing efforts of the U.S. and foreign governments, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of health care services to contain or reduce health care costs may adversely affect our ability to set prices for our products which we believe are fair, and our ability to generate revenues and achieve and maintain profitability. Specifically, in both the United States and some foreign jurisdictions there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. In the United States, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 reforms the way Medicare will cover and reimburse for pharmaceutical products. This legislation could decrease the coverage and price that we may receive for our products. Other third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. It will be time-consuming and expensive for us to go through the process of seeking reimbursement from Medicare and private payors. Our products may not be considered cost effective, and coverage and reimbursement may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a competitive and profitable basis. Further federal and state proposals and healthcare reforms are likely which could limit the prices that can be charged for the drugs we develop and may further limit our commercial opportunity. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the Medicare prescription drug coverage legislation, by the possible effect of this legislation on amounts that private insurers will pay and by other healthcare reforms that may be enacted or adopted in the future. In some foreign countries, including major markets in the European Union and Japan, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take six to twelve months or longer after the receipt of regulatory marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our product candidate to other available therapies. Our business could be materially harmed if reimbursement of our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels. 28 Table of Contents Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. We expect our operating results to be subject to quarterly fluctuations. The revenues we generate, if any, and our operating results will be affected by numerous factors, including: • our addition or termination of development programs • variations in the level of expenses related to our existing three product candidates or future development programs • our execution of collaborative, licensing or other arrangements, and the timing of payments we may make or receive under these arrangements • any intellectual property infringement lawsuit in which we may become involved • regulatory developments affecting our product candidates or those of our competitors If our quarterly operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Furthermore, any quarterly fluctuations in our operating results may, in turn, cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially. We believe that quarterly comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. Risks related to intellectual property and other legal matters Our rights to develop and commercialize our product candidates are subject in part to the terms and conditions of licenses or sublicenses granted to us by other pharmaceutical companies. With respect to VEC-162 and VSF-173, these terms and conditions include options in favor of these pharmaceutical companies to reacquire rights to commercialize and develop these product candidates in certain circumstances. Iloperidone is based in part on patents and other intellectual property owned by sanofi-aventis and Novartis. Titan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Titan) holds an exclusive license from sanofi-aventis to the intellectual property owned by sanofi-aventis, and Titan has sublicensed its rights under such license on an exclusive basis to Novartis. We have acquired exclusive rights to this and other intellectual property through a further sublicense from Novartis. Our rights with respect to the intellectual property to develop and commercialize iloperidone may terminate, in whole or in part, if we fail to meet certain milestones contained in our sublicense agreement with Novartis relating to the time it takes for us to launch iloperidone commercially following regulatory approval, and the time it takes for us to receive regulatory approval following our submission of an NDA or equivalent foreign filing. We may also lose our rights to develop and commercialize iloperidone if we fail to pay royalties to Novartis, if we fail to comply with certain requirements in the sublicense regarding our financial condition, or if we fail to comply with certain restrictions regarding our other development activities. Finally, our rights to develop and commercialize iloperidone may be impaired if we do not cure breaches by Novartis and Titan of similar obligations contained in these sublicense and license agreements, although we are not aware of any such breach by Titan or Novartis. In the event of an early termination of our sublicense agreement, all rights licensed and developed by us under this agreement may be extinguished, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. VEC-162 is based in part on patents that we have licensed on an exclusive basis and other intellectual property licensed from Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (BMS). Following the completion of the entire Phase III program for VEC-162, which may consist of several Phase III trials, and in the event that we have not entered into one or more development and commercialization agreements with one or more third parties covering certain significant markets, BMS has retained an option to reacquire the rights it has licensed to us to exclusively develop and commercialize VEC-162 on pre-determined financial terms, including the payment of royalties and milestone payments to us. BMS may terminate our license if we fail to meet certain milestones or if we otherwise breach our royalty or other obligations in the agreement. In the event that we terminate our license, or if BMS terminates our license due to our breach, all of our rights to VEC-162 (including any intellectual property we develop with respect to VEC-162) will revert back to BMS or otherwise be licensed 29 Table of Contents back to BMS on an exclusive basis. Any termination or reversion of our rights to develop or commercialize VEC-162, including any reacquisition by BMS of our rights, may have a material adverse effect on our business. VSF-173 is based in part on patents and other intellectual property that we have licensed on an exclusive basis from Novartis. Novartis has the option to reacquire rights to co-develop and exclusively commercialize VSF-173 following the completion of the Phase II trials, and an additional option to reacquire co-development rights and exclusive commercialization rights following the completion of the Phase III clinical trials, subject in each case to Novartis’ payment of pre-determined royalties and other payments to us. In the event that Novartis chooses not to exercise either of these options and we decide to enter into a partnering arrangement to help us commercialize VSF-173, Novartis has a right of first refusal to negotiate such an agreement with us, as well as a right to submit a last matching counteroffer regarding such an agreement. In addition, our rights with respect to VSF-173 may terminate, in whole or in part, if we fail to meet certain development and commercialization milestones described in our license agreement relating to the time it takes us to complete our development work on VSF-173. These rights may also terminate in whole or in part if we fail to make royalty or milestone payments or if we do not comply with requirements in our license agreement regarding our financial condition. In the event of an early termination of our license agreement, all rights licensed and developed by us under this agreement may revert back to Novartis. Any termination or reversion of our rights to develop or commercialize VSF-173, including any reacquisition by Novartis of our rights, may have a material adverse effect on our business. If our efforts to protect the proprietary nature of the intellectual property related to our products are not adequate, we may not be able to compete effectively in our markets. In addition to the rights we have licensed from Novartis and BMS relating to our product candidates, we rely upon intellectual property we own relating to our products, including patents, patent applications and trade secrets. As of December 31, 2006, we owned 15 pending provisional patent applications in the United States and three pending Patent Cooperation Treaty applications, which permit the pursuit of patents outside of the United States, relating to our product candidates in clinical development. Our patent applications may be challenged or fail to result in issued patents and our existing or future patents may be too narrow to prevent third parties from developing or designing around these patents. In addition, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect certain proprietary know-how that is not patentable, for processes for which patents are difficult to enforce and for any other elements of our drug development processes that involve proprietary know-how, information and technology that is not covered by patent applications. While we require all of our employees, consultants, advisors and any third parties who have access to our proprietary know-how, information and technology to enter into confidentiality agreements, we cannot be certain that this know-how, information and technology will not be disclosed or that competitors will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques. Further, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. As a result, we may encounter significant problems in protecting and defending our intellectual property both in the United States and abroad. If we are unable to protect or defend the intellectual property related to our technologies, we will not be able to establish or maintain a competitive advantage in our market. If we do not obtain protection under the Hatch-Waxman Act and similar foreign legislation to extend our patents and to obtain market exclusivity for our product candidates, our business will be materially harmed. The United States Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, more commonly known as the “Hatch-Waxman Act,” provides for an extension of patent protection for drug compounds for a period of up to five years to compensate for time spent in development. Assuming we gain a five-year extension for each of our current product candidates in clinical development, and that we continue to have rights under our sublicense and license agreements with respect to these product candidates, we would have exclusive rights to iloperidone’s United States “new chemical entity” patent (the primary patent covering the compound as a new composition of matter) until 2016, to VEC-162’s United States new chemical entity patent 30 Table of Contents until 2022 and to VSF-173’s United States new chemical entity patent until 2019. In Europe, similar legislative enactments allow patent protection in the European Union to be extended for up to five years through the grant of a Supplementary Protection Certificate. Assuming we gain such a five-year extension for each of our current product candidates in clinical development, and that we continue to have rights under our sublicense and license agreements with respect to these product candidates, we would have exclusive rights to iloperidone’s European new chemical entity patents until 2015, to VEC-162’s European new chemical entity patents until 2022 and to VSF-173’s European new chemical entity patents until 2017. Additionally, a recent directive in the European Union provides that companies who receive regulatory approval for a new compound will have a 10-year period of market exclusivity for that compound (with the possibility of a further one-year extension) in most EU countries, beginning on the date of such European regulatory approval, regardless of when the European new chemical entity patent covering such compound expires. A generic version of the approved drug may not be marketed or sold during such market exclusivity period. This directive may be of particular importance with respect to iloperidone, since the European new chemical entity patent for iloperidone will likely expire prior to the end of this 10-year period of market exclusivity. However, there is no assurance that we will receive the extensions of our patents or other exclusive rights available under the Hatch-Waxman Act or similar foreign legislation. If we fail to receive such extensions and exclusive rights, our ability to prevent competitors from manufacturing, marketing and selling generic versions of our products will be materially harmed. Litigation or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to divert resources and may prevent or delay our drug discovery and development efforts. Our commercial success depends in part on our not infringing the patents and proprietary rights of third parties. Third parties may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. In addition, third parties may obtain patents in the future and claim that use of our technologies infringes upon these patents. Furthermore, parties making claims against us may obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability to develop and commercialize one or more of our product candidates. Defense of these claims, regardless of their merit, would divert substantial financial and employee resources from our business. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may have to pay substantial damages, obtain one or more licenses from third parties or pay royalties. In addition, even in the absence of litigation, we may need to obtain additional licenses from third parties to advance our research or allow commercialization of our product candidates. We may fail to obtain any of these licenses at a reasonable cost or on reasonable terms, if at all. In that event, we would be unable to develop and commercialize further one or more of our product candidates. In addition, in the future we could be required to initiate litigation to enforce our proprietary rights against infringement by third parties. Prosecution of these claims to enforce our rights against others could divert substantial financial and employee resources from our business. If we fail to enforce our proprietary rights against others, our business will be harmed. If we use hazardous and biological materials in a manner that causes injury or violates applicable law, we may be liable for damages. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of potentially hazardous substances, including toxic chemical and biological materials. We could be held liable for any contamination, injury or other damages resulting from these hazardous substances. In addition, our operations produce hazardous waste products. While third parties are responsible for disposal of our hazardous waste, we could be liable under environmental laws for any required cleanup of sites at which our waste is disposed. Federal, state, foreign and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations at any time, or if they change, we may be subject to criminal sanctions and substantial civil liabilities, which may adversely affect our business. Even if we continue to comply with all applicable laws and regulations regarding hazardous materials, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and our resultant liability for any injuries or other damages caused by these accidents. Although we maintain pollution liability insurance, our coverage 31 Table of Contents limit under this insurance is $2,000,000, and while we believe this amount and type of insurance is sufficient to cover risks typically associated with our handling of materials, the insurance may not cover all environmental liabilities, and these limits may not be high enough to cover potential liabilities for these damages fully. The amount of uninsured liabilities may exceed our financial resources and materially harm our business. Risks related to our common stock Our stock price has been volatile and may be volatile in the future, and purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. The stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, and the market prices of the securities of life sciences companies without product revenues, such as ours, have historically been highly volatile. The following factors, in addition to the other risk factors described in this section, may also have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock: • publicity regarding actual or potential testing or trial results or the outcome of regulatory review relating to products under development by us or our competitors • regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries • developments concerning any collaboration or other strategic transaction we may undertake • announcements of patent issuances or denials, technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results • changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts • additions or departures of key personnel or members of our board of directors • economic and other external factors beyond our control As a result of these factors, holders of our common stock might be unable to sell their shares at or above the price they paid for such shares. If there are substantial sales of our common stock, our stock price could decline. A small number of early investors in our company who held our stock prior to the sale of shares in our initial public offering continue to hold a substantial number of shares of our common stock. Additionally, a small number of institutional investors and private equity funds continue to hold a significant number of shares of our common stock. Sales by these stockholders of a substantial number of shares, or the expectation of such sales, could cause a significant reduction in the market price of our common stock. Additionally, the holders of a substantial number of shares of our common stock have rights, subject to certain conditions, to require us to file registration statements to permit the resale of these shares in the public market or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. In addition to our outstanding common stock, as of December 31, 2006 there were a total of 1,706,732 shares of common stock that we have registered and that we are obligated to issue upon the exercise of currently outstanding options granted under our Second Amended and Restated Management Equity Plan and 2006 Equity Incentive Plan. Upon the exercise of these options in accordance with their respective terms, these shares may be resold freely, subject to restrictions imposed on our affiliates under Rule 144. If significant sales of these shares occur in short periods of time, these sales could reduce the market price of our common stock. Any reduction in the trading price of our common stock could impede our ability to raise capital on attractive terms. Additionally, the sale of additional equity securities at prices below the current market price of our common stock could result in dilution to our stockholders’ interest. 32 Table of Contents If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports or publish unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who covers the Company downgrades our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases to cover us or fails to publish regular reports on us, interest in the purchase of our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter and bylaws, and in Delaware law, could prevent or delay a change in control of our company. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws: • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt • do not provide for cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would allow holders of less than a majority of the stock to elect some directors • establish a classified board of directors, as a result of which the successors to the directors whose terms have expired will be elected to serve from the time of election and qualification until the third annual meeting following their election • require that directors only be removed from office for cause • provide that vacancies on the board of directors, including newly-created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office • limit who may call special meetings of stockholders • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders • establish advance notice requirements for nominating candidates for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 