RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Company We derive a significant portion of our revenues from the China Unicom group and the China Mobile group and our revenues could decline significantly if either of them reduces its purchases of, or fails to pay for, our wireless coverage products and services We provide most of our wireless coverage products and services to the China Unicom group and the China Mobile group. This is primarily because the China Unicom group and the China Mobile group are currently the only two licensed wireless operators in China. In 2004, 2005 and 2006, we derived 61.0%, 45.1% and 35.9%, respectively, of our revenues from China Unicom group’s local affiliates and 27.8%, 33.8% and 33.3%, respectively, from China Mobile group’s local affiliates. In addition, as of December 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006, 59.2%, 52.3% and 40.4%, respectively, of our gross accounts receivable were attributable to China Unicom group’s local affiliates and 26.3%, 27.3% and 30.2%, respectively, to China Mobile group’s local affiliates. Because of the current procurement policies and practices of the China Unicom group and the China Mobile group, we typically contract with their individual local affiliates and treat these local affiliates as separate customers. Although our business practice is to interact with each local affiliate individually, they are under the common control of their parent company. In certain instances, procurement decisions are made only with the approval of the parent company. For example, parent company approval was required before we were awarded our first CDMA contracts by China Unicom group’s affiliates in 2001. More recently in the fourth quarter of 2006, China Mobile group announced that it would, effective immediately, separately run the bidding processes for the procurement of GSM wireless coverage equipment at the parent company level. For more details, see “Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Our Company— Changes in the procurement policies by our major customers may adversely affect our revenue and profit margin on our wireless coverage products.” We also experience delays in payments from the China Unicom group and the China Mobile group during the ordinary course of our business. As explained in the next risk factor, this is largely due to our limited bargaining leverage and the resulting lack of a specific timetable in our sale and purchase contracts to require our customers to issue completion certificates and to perform preliminary inspections, which are pre-conditions to their initiation of payments. Despite our constant attempts, we have not been able to significantly change this prevalent practice in our industry due to the limited bargaining leverage of wireless coverage operators such as ourselves and we expect this practice to continue in coming periods. One or more of China’s main telecommunication operators (including our two principal group customers) may reorganize by means of a corporate spin-off, merger or otherwise. Any such reorganization could disrupt, slow down or otherwise materially affect their capital expenditures and, therefore, our revenues. Additionally, the competitive situation in the wireless communication market in China may be altered, or the resulting entities may change suppliers or sourcing policies. If the China Unicom group or the China Mobile group decides to centralize or otherwise significantly change its procurement methods for wireless coverage products and services, reduces or eliminates the purchase of our products and services or becomes unable or refuses to pay for our products and services it has purchased, our revenues would decline significantly. Because we have limited bargaining leverage with the China Unicom group and the China Mobile group, some contractual terms and market practices are materially adverse to our interest The China Unicom group and the China Mobile group award contracts through competitive bidding. According to Infosage Analysis, a market research and consulting firm focusing on innovative technologies, there are over 70 entities competing in the wireless coverage market in China. As the China Unicom group and the China Mobile group are currently the only two licensed wireless operators in China, we have limited negotiating leverage with these key clients in the bidding process. As a result, many proposed contractual terms and market practices subject to bidding are materially adverse to our interest. For example, in most instances, the wireless operators will not sign sale and purchase agreements with us until they have formally accepted our products delivered for a whole project. In addition, most of our contracts, in the form contained in the bidding materials, do not specify a timetable for our customers to issue a completion certificate or perform the preliminary inspection of products we install. This affects our revenues as the execution of the sale and purchase contract and the issuance of a completion certificate are conditions to our recognition of revenues for our products and the preliminary inspection by our wireless operator customers is a condition to our recognition of service revenue. As a result of these contractual terms and market practices, we are required to finance significant operating expenses before we recognize revenues and to finance significant accounts receivable once we recognize revenues. Any worsening of these terms and conditions could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and cash flows from operations. Also see “— We have long accounts receivable cycles and long collection periods and our liquidity and cash flows from operations will deteriorate if our accounts receivable cycles or collection periods continue to lengthen” below for additional cash flow and liquidity risks resulting from these market practices. Changes in the procurement policies by our major customers may adversely affect our revenue and profit margin on our wireless coverage products 5 Table of Contents Historically we have been awarded contracts by the local affiliates of China Mobile Group through bidding and negotiation, and these contracts covered wireless coverage equipment and services. For more details on the bidding process conducted by wireless operators in China, please see “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business—Our Wireless Coverage Products and Services—Our Sales Cycle—Bidding Process.” China Mobile group, in an effort to shift to a more centralized procurement model, announced during the fourth quarter of 2006 that it was going to adopt a new procurement policy whereby the bidding processes for wireless coverage equipment and services will be separately conducted, and procurement decisions for wireless coverage equipment and services made by the parent company and local affiliates, respectively. Under the new policy, even if we win the bid for wireless coverage equipment, we may not win the bid for services, or vice versa. Consequently, we may lose revenue with respect to any single wireless coverage project if we cannot win both equipment contract and service contract for the project. In order to achieve the same level of revenues from China Mobile group, we may be required to obtain a higher number of projects from China Mobile group as the per project revenue may be lowered as a result of the policy change by China Mobile group. Further, the change in procurement policy aims to encourage more competitive pricing among providers of wireless coverage equipment, which could lead to a significant decrease in aggregate bidding price for the equipment contracts and the service contract in relation to any project. As a result, our profit margin may be adversely affected. We often begin work on a project before we have a contract for our products and services, which may materially and adversely affect our cash flows from operating activities and liquidity In line with industry practice in China, when a customer accepts our bid for a wireless coverage project, it does not immediately sign a sale and purchase contract. On a typical project, we must complete the initial installation of our coverage products before our customer will issue a completion certificate to confirm the acceptance of the products we have delivered and sign a contract with us. Although we believe that our bidding documents, together with our customers’ acceptances of our bids, effectively constitute binding contracts under PRC law, our PRC counsel has advised us that enforcement of our rights to payment in the PRC courts may be difficult. In particular, it is unclear what terms and provisions need to be included in a bid and acceptance in order for a payment obligation to exist under PRC law. As a result, we effectively assume the risk of loss for our projects before the customer signs a contract with us. In addition, in line with current industry practice in China, most of our bid documents do not specify a time period or date by which our customers must issue completion certificates or sign a sale and purchase contract. As a result, our sales and marketing staff spend a significant amount of time persuading customers to conduct inspections, issue completion certificates and sign contracts. These unfavorable practices are in large part attributable to the market dominance of our customers and the competitive landscape of our wireless coverage industry. We expect that this unfavorable industry practice in China will continue and that it will continue to materially and adversely affect our cash flows from operating activities and liquidity. We have long accounts receivable cycles and long collection periods and our liquidity and cash flows from operations will deteriorate if our accounts receivable cycles or collection periods continue to lengthen Our wireless coverage revenues consist of two components: (i) sale of products and (ii) product installation services. We only begin to recognize revenues from sale of our products when all of the following revenue recognition criteria have been met: • title has been transferred, i.e. the risk and rewards are transferred; • delivery has occurred; • persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; • price to the buyer is fixed and determinable; • collectibility is reasonably assured; and • we have an enforceable legal right to receive the contractually specified amount in cash attributable to sale of products and such right is not contingent upon the installation services and/or further action of the customers. We recognize revenues from the provision of installation services when: • the services have been rendered in full; • the customer has issued a preliminary inspection certificate which indicates the customer’s acceptance of the installation services provided; and • we have an enforceable legal right to receive the contractually specified amount in cash attributable to the installation services and such right is not contingent upon further action of the customer. 6 Table of Contents However, our sale and purchase contracts, in line with industry practice, generally permit our customers to pay their purchase price in installments even though the revenue for that contract has already been recognized. Under these contracts, on a weighted average basis, our installment payment schedule is approximately as follows: • 43% of the contract value due upon the signing of the contract and the issuance of the completion certificate, • an additional 38% due upon the issuance of the preliminary inspection certificate, • a further 16% due upon the issuance of the final inspection certificate, and • the final 3% due upon the expiration of our warranty period. Because our contracts often do not stipulate when our customers must conduct the relevant inspections, our customers may delay their payments. To the extent revenue recognized under a contract is not yet paid, it is recorded as an account receivable. From time to time, we sell a portion of our accounts receivable to third parties to meet our working capital needs. Installment intervals range from six months to three years and the amounts of individual payments have varied and may continue to vary in the future. As of December 31, 2006, we had in aggregate gross accounts receivable, including amounts not yet due pursuant to contractual terms, of RMB1,005.0 million (US$128.8 million). Of this total amount, RMB700.9 million (US$89.8 million), or 69.7%, had been outstanding for less than 12 months from the time the revenue was recognized, RMB231.3 million (US$29.7 million), or 23.0%, had been outstanding for 12 to 24 months from the time the revenue was recognized, RMB68.0 million (US$8.7 million), or 6.8%, had been outstanding for 24 to 36 months from the time the revenue was recognized, and RMB4.8 million (US$0.6 million), or 0.5%, had been outstanding for over 36 months from the time the revenue was recognized. Our net accounts receivable as of December 31, 2006 increased by 39.2% to RMB747.9 million (US$95.8 million) from our net accounts receivable of RMB537.3 million (US$66.6 million) as of December 31, 2005 as a result of (1) an increased proportion of our annual revenues being generated in the third and fourth quarters of 2006, (2i) a 16.3% increase in our total revenues from 2005 to 2006, and (iii) reduced sales of our accounts receivable to receivable purchasing banks in 2006 as compared to 2005. Our principal customers, such as China Mobile group and China Unicom group may delay in paying their installments to us as they come due and, because of our limited bargaining leverage and our need to maintain an ongoing relationship with these principal customers, it is impracticable for us to obtain a significant improvement in their payment patterns. As of December 31, 2006, accounts receivable that became due under our contracts and remained unpaid amounted to RMB353.5 million (US$45.3 million), or 35.2%, of our gross accounts receivable of RMB1,005.0 million (US$128.8 million). Historically, we have made allowances for doubtful accounts representing 100% of our accounts receivable outstanding for more than 24 months from the date they became due under the relevant contract. As of December 31, 2006, this allowance amounted to RMB6.2 million (US$0.8 million). Apart from these doubtful accounts for which allowances are made, all of our remaining accounts receivable were outstanding for less than six months as of December 31, 2006 from the date they became due under the relevant contract. We cannot assure you that our past allowance practice will not change in the future or that our allowance will be sufficient to cover defaults in our accounts receivable. You should refer to “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospectus—Key Factors Affecting Our Results of Operations—Revenue Recognition Policy and Accounts Receivable Cycle” for further details on our revenue recognition policy and collection periods. Our liquidity and cash flows from operations will deteriorate if our accounts receivable cycles or collection periods continue to lengthen. We historically recognized significantly lower revenues in the first quarter, which sometimes resulted in net losses in the first quarter, and our revenues may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter in the future, resulting in quarterly net losses Our customers typically set their annual budgets at the beginning for each year. Once the annual budget is set, the customers will commence the bidding process for specific projects. As a wireless coverage equipment and service provider, we do not recognize revenues until installation is completed. In other words, the amount of revenues we could recognize is typically lower during the earlier part of the year, especially during the first quarter. Our customers generally use the same team to manage different aspects of a project, including bidding, contracting and payment. Their work is performed in accordance with their internal annual and semi-annual project management process. As a result, our customers prefer to perform completion inspections and sign contracts for each batch of installed projects at the same time. We typically recognize higher levels of revenue during the second and third quarter than that of the first quarter, because more projects are installed and inspected, and for which completion certificates are issued, during the second and the third quarter. During the fourth quarter, especially in December, our principal customers, being public companies and influenced by their annual reporting obligations, usually perform completion inspection, issue completion certificate and sign contracts for a vast majority of our projects. Therefore, we typically recognize the highest level of revenue during the fourth quarter. Despite the quarterly fluctuations experienced in revenue, our overall volume of contracts has increased, resulting in increasing costs associated with servicing these contracts. Fluctuations in quarterly revenue with expanding costs have resulted in net losses being incurred in certain quarters of the recent years, particularly in the first quarter. In 2004, 1.5%, 41.1%, 8.3% and 49.1% of our 7 Table of Contents annual revenues were generated in the first, second, third and fourth quarters of that year, respectively, and we reported net losses of RMB20.7 million and RMB7.7 million in the first and third quarters, respectively. In 2005, 1.2%, 24.3%, 21.8% and 52.7% of our annual revenues were generated in the first, second, third and fourth quarters of that year, respectively, and we reported net losses of RMB32.3 million (US$4.0 million) in the first quarter. In 2006, 1.8%, 21.6%, 22.5% and 54.1% of our annual revenues were generated in the first, second, third and fourth quarters of that year, respectively, and we reported a net loss of RMB35.7 million in the first quarter. You should refer to “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospectus—Key Factors Affecting Our Results of Operations—Revenue Recognition Policy and Accounts Receivable Cycle” and “—Significant Quarterly Fluctuations of Our Results of Operations” for further details on our revenue fluctuation and other quarterly financial information. However, past quarterly results may not provide an accurate indication of future performance or fluctuation. Whether we continue to recognize the majority of our revenues in the fourth quarter will depend largely upon the timing of our customers’ project management processes. We anticipate that we will continue to experience significant fluctuations in revenues on a quarterly basis and may continue to experience net losses as a result, particularly in the first quarter. We rely on short-term bank financing, including bills payable and sale of receivables, to finance our operations; any expansion of our business will require further financing and will increase our financial leverage We tend to recognize more revenues and collect payments primarily in the fourth quarter. In 2004, 2005 and 2006, 54.5%, 53.0% and 53.8%, respectively, of our total annual collections were made in the fourth quarter. This is because our customers prefer to pay for our completed projects toward the end of their budget year. However, we commence our production and arrange installation of products for a significant number of projects beginning in the second quarter of the year and typically complete and deliver a majority of our wireless coverage products during the third and fourth quarters. As a result, we tend to generate more cash flow from operating activities toward the end of the year and encounter increasing working capital needs during the middle part of the year, especially the third quarter. We are therefore highly dependent on bank financing, including issuing bills payable and selling accounts receivable, to fund our working capital requirements and maintain liquidity. Historically, we have relied on short-term bank loans to finance our working capital needs. As of December 31, 2006, we had an aggregate of RMB336.1 million (US$43.1 million) of bank loans outstanding and RMB78.6 million (US$10.1 million) in bills payable. As of December 31, 2006, interest rates on our short-term bank loans ranged from 4.9% to 7.0% and interest rates on our bills payable financing ranged from 2.4% to 4.4%. In 2005 and 2006, we sold an aggregate of RMB180.1 million and RMB117.7 million (US$15.1 million), respectively, of our accounts receivable to third party financial institutions. We expect external financing required for expanding our operations will increase our financial leverage. See “— Our inability to access long-term working capital financing due to the current regulatory conditions in China has adversely affected, and could continue to have a negative impact on, our liquidity” below. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash to pay the principal and interest due on our indebtedness. Our ability to service our debts will largely depend on our ability to collect accounts receivable from our customers and on our future operating performance. If we do not have sufficient available sources of liquidity to repay our outstanding indebtedness, we may have to refinance our obligations. However, we cannot assure you that financing or refinancing will be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we encounter any difficulties in generating sufficient cash to pay our outstanding indebtedness or in securing financing or refinancing or receivable selling arrangements on terms satisfactory to us as and when required, our business and liquidity will be materially and adversely affected, and we will be unable to expand our business. Our inability to access long-term working capital financing due to the current regulatory conditions in China has adversely affected, and could continue to have a negative impact on, our liquidity As with most small- and medium-sized enterprises in China, it is difficult for us to enter into working capital financing arrangements with maturities longer than 12 months with lenders or from the capital markets. Under the current regulatory regime in China, commercial banks are required by the People’s Bank of China, the central bank in China, to strictly control the making of working capital loans to small- and medium-sized borrowers with maturities of longer than one year. We therefore finance our working capital needs through the issue of bills payable backed by, short-term borrowings from, and sale of accounts receivable to, various financial institutions. The rates of interest, duration, need for collateral, documentation and other key terms of these financing arrangements vary significantly and are generally less favorable than long-term financing or similar arrangements available in other jurisdictions. In addition, we may not be able to renew existing financing arrangements, and lenders may also have the ability to unilaterally withdraw or change the terms of our funding, either due to their own internal review process or as guided by national economic policies. See “— Risks Relating to Business Operations in China — Changes in China’s political and economic policies and conditions could cause a substantial decline in the demand for our products and services.” We therefore face a higher cost of funding than non-PRC and large-sized PRC companies and greater uncertainty as to the availability of financing, which in turn has adversely affected, and could continue to have a negative impact on, our liquidity. If the wireless communication sector in China does not maintain its current pace of growth, or the PRC government does not issue 3G licenses in the near future, the profitability and future prospects of our business and our liquidity could be materially and adversely affected We generate almost all of our revenues from the provision of wireless coverage products and services to telecommunication 8 Table of Contents operators in China. Our future success depends on the continued growth of the PRC wireless communication industry. Any slowdown in the development of the wireless communication industry in China or reduction in our customers’ expenditures on wireless coverage products and services may reduce market demand for our products and services. Alternatively, if the PRC government or other relevant regulatory authorities fail to allow construction of new wireless communication networks, or decide to terminate, delay or suspend construction or extension of new or existing wireless communication networks, the profitability and future prospects for our business could be materially and adversely affected. The third generation wireless communication, or 3G, network deployment will require significant capital investment by PRC telecommunication operators, including investments in wireless coverage products and services, RF parts and components and wireless communication systems. Therefore, we believe that issuance of 3G licenses will in general have a positive impact on the growth of our business. Mr. Xudong Wang, Minister of the Ministry of Information Industry in China, or MII, mentioned on the national information industry conference in December 2006 that “the conditions for the development of China’s 3G mobile communication are more or less mature, and we will continue our efforts to improve the results of large-scale TD-SCDMA application trials 2007.” In the absence of an official guidance from the PRC government on the timing of the issuance of 3G licenses, the expected return on our investments in 3G technology is uncertain. Continued delay in the issuance of 3G licenses will negatively impact our business growth and liquidity. We may fail to offer products that meet industry standards or our customers’ specific requirements, and as a result we may lose customers or orders or incur significant warranty or other costs, and our revenue growth may be materially and adversely affected The development of our products is based upon a complex technology, and requires significant time and expertise in order to meet industry standards and customers’ specifications. Our customers also have their own sets of standards and criteria relating to their requirements for wireless coverage or base station RF products, including standards and criteria issued by the relevant governmental authorities. We must satisfy these standards and criteria in order to be eligible to supply our products and services to those customers. If we are unable to continue to meet these standards and criteria, we may become ineligible to provide our products and services that have in the past generated most of our revenues and profitability. For example, in 2003, because of a miscommunication with a China Unicom group’s local affiliate with respect to its bidding requirements, we failed to tailor our wireless coverage products to the required specifications of its base stations. As a result, we lost a RMB6.4 million bid. Furthermore, quality and performance problems could damage our reputation and our relationships with existing and prospective customers and could have a material and adverse effect on our revenue growth. We customarily provide our customers with one to three years of warranty protection, under which we agree to repair or replace defectively installed wireless coverage products at no additional cost to our customers. Our contracts generally do not contain disclaimers or limitations on product liabilities for special, consequential and incidental damages, nor do we typically cap the amounts our customers may recover for damages. In addition, we do not currently maintain any insurance for product liability or warranty claims. The failure of our installed projects to operate properly and the potential damage from malfunction of our products could give rise to substantial liabilities under our warranties and otherwise. Our research and development efforts may not lead to successful development of commercially viable or acceptable products, which could cause a decline in customer use of our products The markets in which we compete are characterized by: • rapidly changing technology; • evolving industry standards and transmission protocols; • frequent improvements in products and services; and • fierce competition from well-funded and technologically advanced companies. To succeed, we must continually improve our current products and develop and introduce new or enhanced products that adequately address the requirements of our customers and are competitive in terms of functionality, performance, quality and price. We expend considerable efforts in the development of new and enhanced RF technology and in its commercial applications, including the development of 3G products and base station RF components. Although we have successfully developed products that meet customers’ requirements in the past, there is no assurance that any of our research and development efforts will necessarily lead to any new or enhanced products or generate sufficient market share to justify commercialization. For example, 3G is a new and evolving technology. We cannot assure you that our research and development efforts will yield RF wireless coverage products that are readily deployable in 3G networks or that our customers will be satisfied with the performance of our 3G coverage products. Under those circumstances, we will not be able to recoup our research and development costs and expenses, we may not be able to serve our customers’ 3G needs, and customers may refuse to use our products. 9 Table of Contents Gross profit margins for our products and services vary substantially and any deterioration in the gross profit margin for our principal products and services will have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations Gross profit margins for our products and services vary substantially. Although the gross profit margin for our wireless coverage products and services has been on average higher than the gross profit margin of our RF parts and components, all of our products and services have been subject to downward pricing pressure over their life cycles. In addition, the gross profit margin of our products has fluctuated significantly from year to year. For example, the gross profit margin of our wireless coverage products was 48.0% in 2006, compared to 54.9% in 2005 and 59.6% in 2004. Further, due to the rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards and transmission protocols or changes in the procurement policies of our major customers, our historical gross profit margin is not an accurate measure for estimating our future gross profit margins. Any deterioration in the gross profit margin for our principal products and services will have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations. Our industry is highly competitive and our inability to compete effectively would hurt our current business and future growth potential Our industry is extremely competitive and is characterized by rapid technological advancement, frequent development of new products, evolving industry standards and a downward pricing trend over the life cycle of a product. According to Infosage Analysis, there were more than 70 companies providing wireless coverage products and services in China as of December 31, 2006 and the top three providers in China in this business, including our company, accounted in aggregate for approximately 50% of the total market share in 2006. We compete on the following principal bases: • research and development capability; • product quality; • scope and flexibility of product offering; • after-sale service capability; • pricing; and • relationships with wireless operators at the local level. In addition, China has gradually lifted its import restrictions, lowered import tariffs and relaxed foreign investment restrictions after its entry into the World Trade Organization in December 2001. This has led to increased competition from foreign wireless equipment companies, such as Andrew Corporation, Sagem Communication and Powerwave Technologies, Inc., who are significantly larger and financially stronger than us. Many of our foreign competitors have established PRC-based manufacturing facilities to lower production costs, which has further intensified price competition in the marketplace and may in the future affect our profit margins. If we fail to compete effectively in the future, our current business and future growth potential would be adversely affected. We have limited experience in operating outside mainland China, and failure to achieve our overseas expansion strategy may have an adverse effect on our business growth in the future Our future growth depends, to a considerable extent, on our ability to expand our customer base in both the domestic and overseas markets. We are currently exploring new business opportunities outside mainland China for our wireless coverage products and services. We have set up local sales offices in some Southeast Asian countries, such as the Philippines and Indonesia, to explore market opportunities for our wireless coverage products. However, we have limited experience in operating outside mainland China or with foreign regulatory environments and market practices, and cannot guarantee that we will be able to penetrate any overseas market. In connection with our initial efforts to expand overseas, we have encountered many obstacles, including cultural and linguistic differences, difficulties in keeping abreast of market, business and technical developments in foreign jurisdictions, and political and social disturbances. For example, our products and services sold in China are tailored to the specifications of our domestic operators and their wireless systems and are not readily deployable overseas. To meet the requirements of our potential overseas customers, we have to adjust some of our technical parameters such as transmission frequencies and make other modifications. In addition, recent political instability in some Southeast Asian countries has hindered our expansion efforts into those wireless coverage markets. Failure in the development of overseas markets may have an adverse effect on our business growth in the future. We rely on key managerial and technical personnel and failure to attract or retain such personnel may compromise our ability to develop new products and to effectively carry on our research and development and other efforts Our future growth and success depend largely on the efforts and abilities of our senior management and senior technical staff, particularly Mr. Yingjie Gao, our chairman and chief executive officer, Professor Kunjie Zhuang, our director and chief 10 Table of Contents technology officer, and our other senior technicians and engineers. We have entered into employment agreements with these individuals. These employment agreements have an initial term of three years, subject to the right of termination under specified circumstances, such as a material breach of their contractual obligations. If we lose the services of Mr. Gao, Professor Zhuang or any other senior technicians or engineers, our operations will be materially and adversely affected. We also believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain senior, experienced and highly qualified scientific and technical personnel. The wireless coverage industry is characterized by a high level of employee mobility. Competition in China for experienced RF technology experts is intense. In 2004, 2005 and 2006, our employee turnover rate was 14.0%, 17.7% and 24.6%, respectively, as determined by dividing the number of our employees departing during the year over the total number of employees at the end of the year. There are few senior-level research and development or technical personnel available for hire as the costs of hiring and retaining such individuals are high, and such personnel may not remain with us once hired. If we are unable to successfully attract or retain senior-level research and development employees, our ability to develop new technologies and products and to effectively conduct our operations could be compromised and our ability to carry on our research and development and other efforts could be materially and adversely affected. We rely on third parties to carry out the initial installation of our wireless coverage products, are liable for the failure or inadequacy of their services, and are vulnerable to the loss and unavailability of their services We rely on independent third party contractors to carry out the initial installation of our wireless coverage products, which include affixing the products to the customers’ physical structure and interconnection of the products under the supervision of engineers from our technical support team. We outsource substantially all of our initial installation work to independent third party contractors located across China. Under our contracts, we are responsible to our customers not only for the quality of our wireless coverage products but also for the quality of the installation service. We therefore effectively take the credit and workmanship risks of these independent contractors. To the extent our independent contractors fail to install our products properly, we will be liable to cure the defects. We usually contract our initial installation work to those contractors located near the project sites for cost efficiency reasons. If any of the local contractors becomes unavailable and we are not able to find any suitable replacement, we will be forced to use contractors located farther away from the project sites. This is likely to delay our projects or increase our project costs. It is also possible that we may not be able to find suitable replacements at all to complete our project installations on schedule. In each case, our business would be harmed, and our reputation would be adversely affected if we fail to find the appropriate third party contractors to carry out the initial installation. We may lose our competitive advantage and our operations may suffer if we fail to prevent the loss or misappropriation of, or disputes over, our intellectual property Our ability to compete successfully and to achieve future revenue growth will depend, in significant part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and operate without infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. The legal regime in China for the protection of intellectual property rights is still at its early stage of development. Intellectual property protection became a national effort in China in 1979 when China adopted its first statute on the protection of trademarks. Since then, China has adopted its Patent Law, Trademark Law and Copyright Law and promulgated related regulations such as Regulation on Computer Software Protection, Regulation on the Protection of Layout Designs of Integrated Circuits and Regulation on Internet Domain Names. China has also acceded to various international treaties and conventions in this area, such as the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property, Patent Cooperation Treaty, Madrid Agreement and its Protocol Concerning the International Registration of Marks. In addition, when China became a party to the World Trade Organization in 2001, China amended many of its laws and regulations to comply with the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights. Despite many laws and regulations promulgated and other efforts made by China over the years with a view to tightening up its regulation and protection of intellectual property rights, private parties may not enjoy intellectual property rights in China to the same extent as they would in many Western countries, including the United States, and enforcement of such laws and regulations in China have not achieved the levels reached in those countries. Both the administrative agencies and the court system in China are not well-equipped to deal with violations or handle the nuances and complexities between compliant technological innovation and non-compliant infringement. We rely on trade secrets and registered patents and trademarks to protect our intellectual property. We have also entered into confidentiality agreements with our management and employees relating to our confidential proprietary information. However, the protection of our intellectual properties may be compromised as a result of: • departure of any of our management members or employees in possession of our confidential proprietary information; • breach by such departing management member or employee of his or her confidentiality and non-disclosure undertaking to us; • expiration of the protection period of our registered patents or trademarks; 11 Table of Contents • infringement by others of our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights; or • refusal by relevant regulatory authorities to approve our patent or trademark applications. Any of these events or occurrences may have a material adverse effect on our operations. There is no assurance that the measures that we have put into place to protect our intellectual property rights will be sufficient. As the number of patents, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property rights in our industry increases, and as the coverage of these rights and the functionality of the products in the market further overlap, we believe that business entities in our industry may face more frequent infringement claims. Litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights could result in substantial costs and may not be successful. If we are not able to successfully defend our intellectual property rights, we might lose rights to technology that we need to conduct and develop our business. This may seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition, and enable our competitors to use our intellectual property to compete against us. Furthermore, if third parties claim that our products infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights, we might be required to devote substantial resources to defending against such claims. If we are unsuccessful in defending against such infringement claims, we may be required to pay damages, modify our products or suspend the production and sale of such products. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to modify our products on commercially reasonable terms. If we lose certain government tax concessions, our profitability may be materially and adversely affected. Shenzhen GrenTech Co., Ltd., or Shenzhen GrenTech, is our principal operating subsidiary in China. Shenzhen GrenTech and one of our indirect majority-owned subsidiaries, Shenzhen Lingxian Technology Co., Ltd., or Shenzhen Lingxian, were recognized by Shenzhen municipal tax authorities as newly established production-oriented enterprises in 2000 and 2002, respectively. According to the relevant September 1988 regulation issued by the Shenzhen municipal government, such status and accompanying tax concessions are granted to all newly established enterprises in Shenzhen engaged in industrial, agricultural, transportation and other production-oriented businesses that have an expected corporate existence of over 10 years. These enterprises are exempt from 100% of their corporate income tax for each of the first and second profitable years and 50% of their corporate income tax for each of the following three years. In addition, advanced technology enterprises recognized by the Shenzhen municipal government may continue to enjoy a 50% reduction in their corporate income tax for a further three years. As newly established production-oriented enterprises, both Shenzhen GrenTech and Shenzhen Lingxian were exempt from PRC corporate income tax for the first two profitable years from January 1, 2001 to December 31, 2002 for Shenzhen GrenTech and from January 1, 2002 to December 31, 2003 for Shenzhen Lingxian. The companies were subject to a reduced tax rate of 7.5% for the three financial years from January 1, 2003 to December 31, 2005 for Shenzhen GrenTech and from January 1, 2004 to December 31, 2006 for Shenzhen Lingxian. Because Shenzhen GrenTech was recognized by Shenzhen municipal government as an advanced technology enterprise in December 2004, Shenzhen GrenTech applied for and was granted on December 13, 2005 an extension of its 50% relief from income tax for an additional three-year period commencing from January 1, 2006 and ending on December 31, 2008. Shenzhen Lingxian is currently applying for recognition as an advanced technology enterprise. If we receive the government approval, Shenzhen Lingxian will be subject to the 50% relief from income tax rate for the three financial years commencing from January 1, 2007 to December 31, 2009. Although we have the right to apply for advanced technology enterprise recognition and extension of our tax exemption, there is no assurance that Shenzhen Lingxian will receive such recognition and approval in due course, or that any of the current tax exemptions that we enjoy will be extended upon their expiration. Without extension of the tax relief period, Shenzhen Lingxian will be subject to the corporate income tax rate generally applicable to enterprises established in the Shenzhen Special Economic Zone. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress of the PRC passed the Enterprise Income Tax Law, which will take effect as of January 1, 2008. In accordance with the enterprise income tax law, a unified enterprise income tax rate of 25%, a unified deduction measure and standard and unified tax preferential treatment will be applied to both foreign invested and domestic enterprises and an income tax rate of 15% will be provided to advanced technology enterprises recognized by the government authorities. The new law also provides for transitional measures for enterprises established prior to the promulgation of the new law and eligible for lower tax rate preferential treatment in accordance with the then prevailing tax laws and administrative regulations. These enterprises will gradually become subject to the new, unified tax rate over a five-year period; enterprises eligible for regular tax reductions or exemptions may continue to enjoy tax preferential treatments after the implementation of the new law and until their preferential treatment expire. The preferential treatment period of enterprises which have not enjoyed any preferential treatments for the reason of not having made any profits, however, shall be deemed as starting from the implementation of the new law. In addition, foreign companies headquartered in China may be classified as PRC resident enterprises and their worldwide income may be subject to tax under the new law. Given that the new law has been promulgated only recently, its implementation has yet to be further clarified in practice. Moreover, our historical operating results may not be indicative of our operating results for future periods as a result of the expiration of the tax holidays we enjoy. If our customers increasingly provide their own equipment or accessories instead of ordering them from us, our ability to generate revenues to sustain our business or support our growth may be materially and adversely affected 12 Table of Contents Our wireless coverage products often include, among other things, various accessories such as cables and antennas for installation. In 2004, 2005 and 2006, accessories included as a part of our product sales accounted for approximately 29.8%, 26.4% and 33.9% of our revenues, respectively. In 2003, some of our customers began to procure accessories on their own and exclude accessories from our wireless coverage products. This practice effectively reduced our revenues. We lost revenues from sale of accessories from our wireless coverage products in 2004, 2005 and 2006 by RMB24.4 million, RMB20.4 million and RMB20.0 million, or 4.3%, 2.8% and 2.4% of our revenues, respectively. If customers continue to choose to procure their own accessories, our ability to generate revenues to sustain our business or support our growth may be materially and adversely affected. Similarly, the new procurement policy adopted by China Mobile during the fourth quarter of 2006 may result in lower revenues for us from certain product offerings. For more details, see “Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Our Company—Changes in the procurement policies by our major customers may adversely affect our profit margin on our wireless coverage products.” If our idle or insufficient production capacity significantly increases during any particular period, our results of operations for that period may be materially and adversely affected We plan the utilization of our production capacity primarily based on our projected orders from our customers. We cannot guarantee the accuracy of our internal projections for demands of our products and the effectiveness of our planning for production capacity utilization. For example, we currently have 16 assembly lines in Shenzhen with a monthly production capacity of 2,400 sets of wireless coverage products and 15,000 sets of RF parts and components for base stations. We also have six assembly lines in Quanzhou with a monthly production capacity of 18,000 sets of RF parts and components. Our actual average monthly production at the Shenzhen facility in 2006 amounted to approximately 2049 sets of wireless coverage products and 10,000 sets of RF parts and components for base stations; and our actual average monthly production at the Quanzhou facility in 2006 amounted to approximately 10,700 sets of RF parts and components. It costs approximately RMB1.3 million (US$0.2 million) to add or remove an assembly line for wireless coverage products, and approximately RMB4.3 million (US$0.5 million) to add or remove an assembly line for RF parts and components. Therefore, if our projections are inaccurate, there may be periods when we will have idle or insufficient production capacity for all or some types of our products. For example, demands for our base station RF parts and components exceeded our projections in 2006. We were limited by our production capacity and unable to fill all orders. Any significant increase in our idle or insufficient production capacity during any particular period may materially and adversely affect our results of operations for that period. Our operations may be adversely affected by shortages of raw materials and the volatility in the prices of raw materials. We purchase raw materials such as various electronic components, metal cases for modules and wireless coverage products, electronic cables, packaging materials and other accessories. In order to meet our production delivery schedules, we must obtain sufficient quantities of high quality raw materials in a timely manner. In this respect, we do not enter into long-term contracts with our suppliers of raw materials. As a result, our operations are vulnerable to changes in the supply and prices of raw materials. For example, in the third quarter of 2006, the cost of coaxial cables rose as a result of increases in copper prices, which in turn led to a reduction of 1.6% in the gross profit margin of our products incorporating coaxial cables. No assurance can be given that we will be able to obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials in the future and no assurance can be given that our operations will not be adversely affected by increases in prices of raw materials. If we fail to acquire raw materials on time or on acceptable terms and consequently fail to fill our customers’ orders in a timely and cost-effective manner, our business operations may be materially and adversely affected We rely on third-party suppliers for our raw materials. Although we purchased raw materials from over 460 suppliers in 2006, our ten largest suppliers in 2006 supplied approximately 32.9% of our orders for raw materials. If any of our major suppliers fails to deliver our required raw materials in time for our production, and we are unable to find the required raw materials from other suppliers in a timely manner and on acceptable terms, there will be a delay in our provision of products and services to our customers. Such delays would damage our relationship with our customers and may materially and adversely affect our business operations. We maintain limited insurance coverage and any significant product liability claim could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition We currently do not maintain any product liability insurance for our products and services, nor do we carry any business interruption insurance, third-party liability insurance for personal injuries, or environmental damage insurance for environmental emissions or accidents on our properties or relating to our operations. There is no assurance that there will not be any product liability claims against us in relation to our RF products. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we will not experience any major accidents in the course of our operations, which may cause significant property damage and personal injuries. The occurrence of any such accidents and their consequential losses may not be adequately covered, or at all, by our insurance policies. Losses incurred, or payments we may be required to make, may have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition. 13 Table of Contents The interest of our principal shareholders may differ from your interest and their vote may disadvantage our minority shareholders Since the completion of our initial public offering in March 2006, several of our current principal shareholders continue to be our largest shareholders with the following equity interests in our company as of the date of this annual report: • Guoren Industrial with 24.0%; • Heng Xing Yue Investments Limited, or HXY Investments, with 18.3%; and • Drag Investments with 10.3%. In addition, two of our principal shareholders, Mr. Gao and Professor Zhuang, who beneficially own 24.0% and 10.3%, respectively, of our company immediately upon completion of our initial public offering, are our chairman and chief executive officer, and our director and chief technology officer, respectively. They will be able to exercise substantial control over our business by voting at shareholders’ meetings or board meetings on matters of significance, such as: • composition of our board of directors; • selection of our senior management; • amount and timing of dividends and other distributions; • our overall strategic and investment decisions; • issuance of securities and adjustment to our capital structure; • amendment to our memorandum and articles of association; and • other corporate actions requiring approval of our shareholders, including election and removal of directors, merger, consolidation or sale of our assets, or any other change of control event that may benefit our other shareholders generally. The interest of any of these principal shareholders may differ from your interest. There is no assurance that any of these principal shareholders will vote in a way that benefits you. If circumstances arise in which the interest of any of these principal shareholders conflicts with the interest of other holders of our shares or ADSs, you as a minority shareholder could be disadvantaged. The major shareholder of one of our consolidated PRC subsidiaries has a veto right on some matters under PRC law and may vote his shares or exercise his veto right in a manner adverse to our interests Professor Zhuang, our director and chief technology officer, together with his son, is the 20%-shareholder of one of our consolidated PRC subsidiaries, Quanzhou Lake Microwave Co., Ltd., or Lake Microwave. Conflict of interests between his duties to, and interest in, our company and our consolidated subsidiary may arise. We cannot assure you that, when any conflict of interest arises, Professor Zhuang will act completely in our interest or that any conflict of interest will be resolved in our favor. Also, under PRC law, minority shareholders of foreign-invested joint ventures, such as Lake Microwave, have veto power on certain issues such as share transfer, capital increase and amendment to their articles of association. We cannot assure you that Professor Zhuang will not exercise his influence over Lake Microwave in a manner that may conflict with our interest or that he will not vote his shares or exercise his veto right in a manner adverse to our interests. Our primary source of funds for dividend and other distributions from our operating subsidiary in China is subject to various legal and contractual restrictions and uncertainties, and our ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to our shareholders is negatively affected by those restrictions and uncertainties We are a holding company established in the Cayman Islands and conduct our core business operations through our principal operating subsidiary, Shenzhen GrenTech, in China. As a result, our profits available for distribution to our shareholders are dependent on the profits available for distribution from Shenzhen GrenTech and its subsidiaries. If Shenzhen GrenTech or its subsidiaries incur debt on their own behalf, the debt instruments may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions, which in turn would limit our ability to pay dividends on our shares and ADSs. Under current PRC law, because we are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, our PRC subsidiary, Shenzhen GrenTech, is regarded as a wholly foreign-owned enterprise in China. Although dividends paid by foreign invested enterprises, such as wholly foreign-owned enterprises and sino-foreign joint ventures, are not subject to any PRC corporate withholding tax, PRC law permits payment of dividends only out of net income as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Determination of net income under PRC accounting standards and regulations may differ from determination under U.S. GAAP in significant aspects, such as the use of 14 Table of Contents different principles for recognition of revenues and expenses. In addition, if any undistributed profits of our PRC subsidiary, Shenzhen Grentech, are used to increase its registered capital so that our equity interests in our PRC subsidiary are increased, approval of the PRC government is required. Under PRC law, Shenzhen GrenTech, a wholly foreign-owned enterprise, is required to set aside a portion of its net income each year to fund designated statutory reserve funds. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. As a result, our primary internal source of funds for dividend payments from Shenzhen GrenTech is subject to these and other legal and contractual restrictions and uncertainties, which in turn may limit or impair our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Moreover, any transfer of funds from us to Shenzhen GrenTech, either as a shareholder loan or as an increase in registered capital, is subject to registration with or approval by PRC governmental authorities. These limitations on the flow of funds between us and Shenzhen GrenTech could restrict our ability to act in response to changing market conditions. Some of our production and research and development facilities and offices are situated on properties under short-term leases or with defective titles and our operating costs may increase if we are not able to renew the existing leases or if such leases can only be renewed on less favorable terms The production and research and development facilities of Shenzhen GrenTech and Shenzhen Lingxian are currently situated on properties leased from independent third parties. They occupy an aggregate gross floor area of approximately 5,213.5 square meters. Our leases for these facilities range from one to two years in original lease terms and are due to expire between June 2007 and December 2007. Our total rental payment for these leased properties in 2006 was approximately RMB6.3 million (US$0.8 million). We are in the process of constructing our new research and production facilities in Shenzhen High Technology Industrial Park, which is expected to be completed by December 2007 or shortly thereafter. Upon completion of the construction, we expect to relocate our existing facilities from the leased premises to Shenzhen High Technology Industrial Park. Even though the construction of our new facilities in Shenzhen High Technology Industrial Park has been on schedule, we may experience construction delays, in which case we will need to renew our leases with short notice. We have no assurance that the leases will be renewed on terms and conditions that are acceptable to us. If these leases cannot be renewed, we will have to find other appropriate premises. Although our equipment and machinery may be relocated without undue financial difficulties, such relocation may disrupt our current operations or otherwise have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Alternatively, if the existing leases can only be renewed on less favorable terms, our operating costs will increase and thus our results of operations could be adversely affected. For some of the properties leased by us for office use, we are unable to ascertain whether or not their respective landlords have valid title to them or legal rights to lease them. If the relevant leases become invalid for any reason and we have to relocate to other office premises, we may incur additional costs and expenses and experience business disruptions as a result. Investor confidence and market price of our ADSs may be adversely impacted if we or our independent registered public accountants are unable to attest to the adequacy of the internal controls over our financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, as required by Section 404 of the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 We are subject to the reporting requirements of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. The SEC, as directed by Section 404 of the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring public companies such as ourselves, to include a report of management of their internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K or Form 20-F, as the case may be, that contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of their internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, independent registered public accountants of these public companies must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of their internal controls over financial reporting. These requirements will first apply to our annual report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ending on December 31, 2007. Our management may not conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective. Moreover, even if our management does conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, if our independent registered public accountants are not satisfied with our internal control structure and procedures, the level at which our internal controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if the independent registered public accountants interpret the requirements, rules or regulations differently from us, they may decline to attest to our management’s assessment or may issue a report that is qualified. Any of these possible outcomes could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could negatively impact the market price of our ADSs. Risks Relating to Our Industry Our business might become subject to new regulatory restrictions, which may restrict the way in which we conduct our business and subject us to severe penalties, and we may be materially and adversely affected by any change in the composition of the primary telecommunication operators in China We are subject to regulation by PRC law with respect to the products we manufacture and sell in China. We must obtain regulatory approvals from the national and local government authorities before we may manufacture and sell our products. MII is the primary central government agency responsible for regulating the PRC wireless communication industry and has broad 15 Table of Contents discretion and authority to regulate our industry in China. Introduction of any new transmission protocol will require the approval of MII and other regulatory bodies. MII has adopted, and may adopt in the future, regulations that impose stringent standards on the wireless communication industry in China, with which we must comply. New regulations or readjustment of previously implemented regulations could require us to change our business plan, increase our costs or limit our ability to sell our products or services. Our failure to comply with these regulations may subject us to various penalties, including fines and suspension or discontinuation of our operations. Therefore, enactment by the PRC government of new laws or regulations or a change in the interpretation of existing laws or regulations may also materially and adversely affect our business. The PRC government has considerable control over the structure and overall development of the telecommunication industry in China. It also maintains substantial ownership in all major telecommunication operators in China. Prior to 1994, PRC government-controlled entities held a monopoly over the telecommunication networks across China. In order to introduce competition into the telecommunication industry, the PRC government in 1994 separated China’s telecommunication business into four independent sectors: fixed-line, wireless, satellite and paging. In 2002, the PRC government further separated the then China Telecom group into two companies along geographical boundaries, with the portion in southern China as the current China Telecom group and the northern portion as the current China Netcom group. In early 2005, the PRC government decided to swap some of the senior management members among China’s largest telecommunication operators. In mid-2005, there was speculation among industry analysts, as well as comments by some senior officers of China’s largest telecommunication operators, regarding a potential restructuring of the PRC wireless communication industry in advance of the issuance of 3G licenses. According to some commentators, the PRC government believes that there are too many national wireless operators to receive 3G licenses. If these market speculations prove to be true and the PRC government reorganizes, splits or merges one or more of China’s main telecommunication operators, including our two principal group customers, the China Unicom group and the China Mobile group, such restructuring could disrupt our existing relationship with our current customers and result in changes in supplier and sourcing policies of these companies, all of which have been critical to our business growth and profitability. Risks Relating to Business Operations in China Changes in China’s political and economic policies and conditions could cause a substantial decline in the demand for our products and services Historically, we derived almost all of our revenues from a single market, mainland China. We anticipate that mainland China will continue to be our primary production and sales base in the near future and currently almost all of our assets are located in China and all of our services are performed in China. While the PRC government has pursued economic reforms to transform its economy from a planned economy to a market-oriented economy since 1978, a large part of the PRC economy is still being operated under varying degrees of control by the PRC government. By imposing industrial policies and other economic measures, such as restrictions on lending to certain sectors of the economy, control of foreign exchange, taxation and restrictions on foreign participation in the domestic market of various industries, the PRC government exerts considerable direct and indirect influence on the development of the PRC economy. Many of the economic reforms carried out by the PRC government are unprecedented or experimental and are expected to be refined and improved. Other political, economic and social factors may also lead to further adjustments of the PRC reform measures. This refining and adjustment process may not necessarily have a positive effect on our operations and our future business development. For example, the PRC government has in the past implemented a number of measures intended to slow down certain segments of the PRC economy that the government believed to be overheating, including placing additional limitation on the ability of commercial banks to make loans by raising bank reserve-against-deposit rates. Our operating results may be materially and adversely affected by changes in the PRC economic and social conditions and by changes in the policies of the PRC government, such as measures to control inflation, changes in the rates or method of taxation and the imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion. Changes in foreign exchange regulation in China may affect our ability to pay dividends in foreign currencies We currently receive all of our operating revenues in Renminbi. Currently, Renminbi is not a freely convertible currency and the restrictions on currency exchanges in China may limit our ability to use revenues generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside China or to make dividends or other payments in U.S. dollars. The PRC government strictly regulates conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies. Over the years, the PRC government has significantly reduced its control over routine foreign exchange transactions under current accounts, including trade- and service-related foreign exchange transactions, foreign debt service and payment of dividends. In accordance with the existing foreign exchange regulations in China, our PRC subsidiary, Shenzhen GrenTech, is able to pay dividends in foreign currencies, without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. The PRC government may, however, at its discretion, restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions and prohibit us from converting our Renminbi-denominated earnings into foreign currencies. If this occurs, our PRC subsidiary may not be able to pay us dividends in foreign currency without prior approval from SAFE. In addition, conversion of Renminbi for most capital account items, including direct investments, is still subject to government approval in China and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. This restriction may limit our ability to invest earnings of Shenzhen GrenTech. 16 Table of Contents Fluctuation in the value of Renminbi could adversely affect the value of, and dividends payable on, our shares and ADSs in foreign currency terms The value of Renminbi is subject to changes in PRC government policies and depends to a large extent on China’s domestic and international economic, financial and political developments, as well as the currency’s supply and demand in the local market. For over a decade from 1994, the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including the U.S. dollar, was based on exchange rates set and published daily by the People’s Bank of China, the PRC central bank, based on the previous day’s interbank foreign exchange market rates in China and exchange rates on the world financial markets. The official exchange rate for the conversion of Renminbi into U.S. dollars remained stable until Renminbi was revalued in July 2005 and allowed to fluctuate by reference to a basket of foreign currencies, including the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, Renminbi was be permitted to fluctuate within a band against a basket of foreign currencies. As a result, as of May 1, 2007, the Renminbi has appreciated approximately 7.4% against the U.S. dollar since July 2005. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt a substantially more liberalized currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation in the value of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. Further revaluations of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar may also occur in the future. Since our income and profits are denominated in Renminbi, any appreciation of Renminbi would increase the value of, and any dividends payable on, our shares and ADSs in foreign currency terms. Conversely, any depreciation of Renminbi would decrease the value of, and any dividends payable on, our shares and ADSs in foreign currency terms. The uncertain legal environment in China could limit the legal protections available to you The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike the common law system, the civil law system is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In the late 1970s, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations to provide general guidance on economic and business practices in China and to regulate foreign investment. Our PRC subsidiary, Shenzhen GrenTech, is a wholly foreign-owned enterprise and is subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China in general and laws and regulations applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises in particular. China has made significant progress in the promulgation of laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. However, the promulgation of new laws, changes of existing laws and abrogation of local regulations by national laws may have a negative impact on our business and prospects. In addition, as these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent and because of the limited volume of published cases and their non-binding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws, regulations and legal requirements involve significant uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to foreign investors, including you. For example, it is not clear if a PRC court would enforce in China a foreign court decision brought by you against us in shareholders’ derivative actions. Moreover, the enforceability of contracts in China, especially with governmental entities, is relatively uncertain. If counterparties repudiated our contracts or defaulted on their obligations, we might not have adequate remedies. Such uncertainties or inability to enforce our contracts could materially and adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Outbreak of SARS or other epidemics could materially and adversely affect our overall operations and results of operations From March to July 2003, mainland China, Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan and some other areas in Asia experienced an outbreak of a new and contagious form of atypical pneumonia known as severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. Our operating results for 2003 were adversely affected by this outbreak. A recurrent outbreak, or an outbreak of a similarly contagious disease, such as the H5N1 avian flu, could potentially disrupt our operations to the extent that any one of our employees is suspected of having the infection or that any of our facilities is identified as a possible source of spreading the virus or disease. We may be required to quarantine employees who are suspected of having an infection. We may also be required to disinfect our facilities and therefore suffer a suspension of production of indefinite duration. Any quarantine or suspension of production at any of our facilities will adversely affect our overall operations. In addition, any such outbreak will likely restrict the level of economic activities in the affected areas, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Recent regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may limit our ability to acquire PRC companies and adversely affect our business and prospects In October 2005, SAFE issued a circular concerning foreign exchange regulations on investments by PRC residents in China through special purpose companies incorporated overseas. The circular states that, if PRC residents use assets or equity interests in their domestic entities as capital contribution to establish offshore companies or inject assets or equity interests of their PRC entities into offshore companies to raise capital overseas, such PRC residents must register with local SAFE branches with respect to their overseas investments in offshore companies and must also file amendments to their registrations if their offshore companies experience material events, such as changes in share capital, share transfer, mergers and acquisitions, spin-off transactions or use of assets in China to guarantee offshore obligations. Our shareholders have completed the relevant SAFE registration procedures as currently required. 17 Table of Contents As it is uncertain how SAFE will interpret or implement its circular, we cannot predict how this circular and other SAFE circulars will affect our business operations or future strategies. For example, we may be subject to more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our business and prospects. 