Risk Factors,” “Item 6. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and include: • our ability to continue listing our common stock on the Nasdaq Stock Market (“Nasdaq”); • our ability to successfully consider, review, and if appropriate, implement other strategic opportunities; 3 Table of Contents • our expectation that we will incur losses, on a consolidated basis, for the foreseeable future; • our ability to fund our operations and continued development of our products, including the Rapid Flu Detection System, the glucose-sensing microchip, the Easy Check breath glucose detection system and the iGlucose wireless communication system; • our ability to complete the Phase II of the Rapid Flu Detection System by the end of 2010 or at all and Phase II of the glucose-sensing microchip development program by mid 2010 or at all; • our ability to pursue our strategy to offer identification tools and technologies for consumers and businesses; • our ability to maximize the amount of capital that we will have available to pursue business opportunities in the healthcare and energy sectors; • our ability to successfully develop and commercialize the breath glucose detection system and the iGlucose wireless communication device and the glucose-sensing microchip, and the market acceptance of these devices and the microchip; • our ability to obtain patents on our products, including the Easy Check breath glucose detection system and the iGlucose wireless communication device, the validity, scope and enforceability of our patents, and the protection afforded by our patents; • we may become subject to costly product liability claims and claims that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others; • our ability to comply with current and future regulations relating to our businesses; • uncertainty as to whether a market for our VeriMed system will develop and whether we will be able to generate more than a nominal level of revenue from this business; • the potential for patent infringement claims to be brought against us asserting that we hold no rights for the use of the implantable microchip technology and that we are violating another party’s intellectual property rights. If such a claim is successful, we could be enjoined from engaging in activities to market the systems that utilize the implantable microchip and be required to pay substantial damages; • our ability to provide uninterrupted, secure access to the Health Link and VeriMed databases; and • our ability to establish and maintain proper and effective internal accounting and financial controls. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. In addition, past financial or operating performance is not necessarily a reliable indicator of future performance, and you should not use our historical performance to anticipate future results or future period trends. Except as otherwise required by federal securities laws, we disclaim any obligation or undertaking to disseminate any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect any change in our expectations or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based. All forward-looking statements attributable to us, or persons acting on our behalf, are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 4 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS The Company PositiveID Corporation, formerly known as VeriChip Corporation, was formed as a Delaware corporation by Digital Angel Corporation, or Digital Angel, in November 2001. In January 2002, we began our efforts to create a market for radio frequency identification, or RFID, systems that utilize our human implantable microchip. During the first half of 2005 we acquired two business focused on providing RFID systems for healthcare applications. Those businesses (EXi Wireless and Instantel) were merged in 2007 to form Xmark Corporation (“Xmark”), which was a wholly owned subsidiary of ours. On February 14, 2007, we completed our initial public offering in which we sold 3,100,000 shares of our common stock at $6.50 per share. On July 18, 2008, we completed the sale of all of the outstanding capital stock of Xmark, which at the time was principally all of our operations, to Stanley Canada Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of The Stanley Works. The sale transaction was closed for $47.9 million in cash, which consisted of the $45 million purchase price plus a balance sheet adjustment of approximately $2.9 million, which was adjusted to $2.8 million at settlement of the escrow. Under the terms of the stock purchase agreement, $43.4 million of the proceeds were paid at closing and $4.4 million was released from escrow in July 2009. As a result, we recorded a gain on the sale of Xmark of $6.2 million, with $4.5 million of that gain deferred until the escrow was settled. The financial position, results of operations and cash flows of Xmark have been reclassified as discontinued operations in 2008 and 2007. Following the completion of the sale of Xmark to Stanley Canada, we retired all of our outstanding debt for a combined payment of $13.5 million and settled all contractual payments to Xmark’s and our officers and management for $9.1 million. On August 28, 2008, we paid a special dividend to our stockholders of $15.8 million. On November 12, 2008, the Company entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement (“APA”) with Digital Angel and Destron Fearing Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Digital Angel, which collectively are referred to as, “Digital Angel.” The terms of the APA included the purchase by the Company of patents related to an embedded bio-sensor system for use in humans, and the assignment of any rights of Digital Angel under a development agreement associated with the development of an implantable glucose sensing microchip. The Company also received covenants from Digital Angel and Destron Fearing that will permit the use of intellectual property of Digital Angel related to the Company’s VeriMed business without payment of ongoing royalties, as well as inventory and a limited period of technology support by Digital Angel. The Company paid Digital Angel $500,000 at the closing of the APA, which was recorded in the financials as research and development expense. Also, on November 12, 2008, R&R Consulting Partners LLC, a company controlled by our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, purchased 5,355,556 shares of common stock from Digital Angel, at which point in time Digital Angel ceased being a stockholder. On September 4, 2009, the Company, VeriChip Acquisition Corp., a Delaware corporation and our wholly-owned subsidiary (the “Acquisition Subsidiary”), and Steel Vault Corporation, a Delaware corporation (“Steel Vault”), signed an Agreement and Plan of Reorganization (the “Merger Agreement”), dated September 4, 2009, as amended, pursuant to which the Acquisition Subsidiary was merged with and into Steel Vault on November 10, 2009, with Steel Vault surviving and becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (the “Merger”). Upon the consummation of the Merger, each outstanding share of Steel Vault’s common stock, warrants and options was converted into 0.5 shares of common stock, warrants and options of the Company. At the closing of the Merger, we changed our name to PositiveID Corporation, and changed our stock ticker symbol with Nasdaq to “PSID” effective November 11, 2009. In February 2010, we acquired the assets of Easy Check Medical Diagnostics, LLC, including the Easy Check breath glucose detection system and the iGlucose wireless communication system. These products are currently under development. There is a U.S. patent pending for the Easy Check breath glucose detection system and the Company plans to file a patent application and launch the product development for the iGlucose system in early 2010. In exchange for the assets, we issued 300,000 shares of our common stock valued at approximately $351,000. Additional payment in the form of shares (maximum 200,000 shares) and product royalties may be paid in the future based on successful patent grants and product or license revenues. 5 Table of Contents Our principal executive offices are located at 1690 South Congress Avenue, Suite 200, Delray Beach, Florida 33445. Our telephone number is (561) 805-8008. Unless the context provides otherwise, when we refer to the “Company,” “we,” “our,” or “us” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we are referring to VeriChip Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. VeriChip, Health Link, VeriMed, VeriTrace, iGlucose and NationalCreditReport.com are our registered trademarks. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains trademarks and trade names of other organizations and corporations. Available Information We file or furnish with or to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, annual reports on Form 10-K, current reports on Form 8-K, annual reports to stockholders and annual proxy statements and amendments to such filings. Our SEC filings are available to the public on the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. These reports are also available free of charge from our website at http://www.positiveidcorp.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such material with or to the SEC. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any registration statement that incorporates this Annual Report on Form 10-K by reference. Overview We have historically developed, marketed and sold radio frequency identification, frequently referred to as RFID, systems used for the identification of people in the healthcare market. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2009, with the acquisition of Steel Vault, the Company is pursuing its strategy to provide unique health and security identification tools to protect consumers and businesses, operating in two key segments: HealthID and ID Security. Our HealthID segment is currently focused on the development of the glucose-sensing microchip, in conjunction with Receptors LLC (“Receptors”). In the field of diabetes management we also acquired, in February 2010, the assets of Easy Check Medical Diagnostics, LLC, including the Easy Check breath glucose detection system and the iGlucose wireless communication system. All three of these products are currently under development. We also intend to continue the development of the Rapid Flu Detection system, and other health related products, built on our core intellectual property. Our HealthID segment also includes the VeriMed system, which uses an implantable passive RFID microchip (the “VeriChip”) that is used in patient identification applications. Each implantable microchip contains a unique verification number that is read when it is scanned by our scanner. In October 2004, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, cleared our VeriMed Health Link system for use in medical applications in the United States. Our ID Security segment includes our Identity Security suite of products, sold through our NationalCreditReport.com brand and our Health Link personal health record. Our NationalCreditReport.com business was acquired in conjunction with our merger with Steel Vault in November 2009. NationalCredit-Report.com offers consumers a variety of identity security products and services primarily on a subscription basis. These services help consumers protect themselves against identity theft or fraud and understand and monitor their credit profiles and other personal information, which include credit reports, credit monitoring and credit scores. In the first quarter of 2010, we re-launched our Health Link personal health record (“PHR”) business. We plan to focus our marketing efforts on partnering with health care providers and exchanges, physician groups, Electronic Medical Record (“EMR”) system vendors, and insurers to use Health Link as a PHR provided to their patients. We will also seek to partner with pharmaceutical companies who wish to communicate with our online community through various forms of value added content and advertising. The Company continues to focus on its HealthID and ID Security businesses, including the development of the glucose sensing microchip, the Easy Check breath glucose detection system, the iGlucose wireless communication system, the Rapid Flu Detection System, the Health Link PHR, and its operating business in identity security. The Company intends to continue to explore potential strategic transactions with third parties in the healthcare, identification, and animal health sectors. Our Businesses Healthcare Products Our Healthcare Products include the development of a glucose-sensing microtransponder based on our patent number 7,125,382 entitled “Embedded Bio-Sensor System.” Our patent covers a bio-sensor system that utilizes RFID technology, combining wireless communication with an implantable passively-powered on-chip transponder. We have partnered with Receptors, a technology company whose AFFINITY by DESIGN™ chemistry platform can be applied to the development of selective binding products, to develop an in-vivo glucose sensor to detect glucose levels in the human body which is intended to be coupled with our microchip to read blood glucose levels through an external scanner. According to the American Diabetes Association, there are 23.6 million people in the United States, or 8 percent of the population, who have diabetes. Furthermore, the total prevalence of diabetes increased 13.5 percent from 2005 to 2007. We believe the successful development and commercialization of our glucose-sensing microchip could negate the need for diabetics to draw blood samples multiple times each day to read their blood glucose levels. We further believe that patients implanted with our glucose-sensing microchip, if successfully developed, could get a rapid reading of their blood sugar with a simple wave of a handheld scanner. 6 Table of Contents In conjunction with Receptors, we have successfully completed Phase I development of the glucose-sensing microchip and are currently in Phase II development. In Phase I, we successfully demonstrated the bench-top format application of the glucose-sensing system to the detection of glucose levels. Phase II will include expanding on the synthetic competitor agent and Combinatorial Artificial Receptor Array (CARA) binding environment preparation and screening protocols using optimized array and bead workflows. We expect that it will optimize candidate glucose-sensing systems for sensitivity and selectivity incorporating model matrices into the screen and workflow process. We also expect that Phase II will optimize the binding environment and competitor agent synthesis, test cut-off membrane technology and demonstrate a bench-scale fluorescence system prototype. We have also partnered with Receptors to develop a Rapid Influenza Detection System built on the same intellectual property platform used in the glucose sensing microtransponder. The Rapid Influenza Detection System is intended to initially provide two levels of identification within minutes. If developed, utilizing a simple test tube format that can be combined with an inexpensive reader, it is expected that the first level will prep the sample and identify the agent as a flu or non-flu virus, and that the second level of identification will classify the sub-type of flu that is present in a sample, such as H3N2 (seasonal flu), H1N1 (swine flu), etc. In February 2010, we completed Phase I development and successfully achieved proof-of-concept. CARA support and complementary competitor agents were developed to detect the presence of influenza in a model nasal wash matrix. Using multiplexed specificity, the goal of Phase II is to classify the sub-type of flu that is present in a sample. We believe rapid sub-type classification of flu strains at the point of care will allow for improved treatment, thereby discouraging antibiotic overuse, preventing central lab overloading and improving overall health outcomes. Furthermore, we believe the rapid flu sub-type test will give an early warning of the rise of new sub-types of influenza so that containment measures can be implemented and pandemic proportions can be avoided. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, each year in the United States on average, 5 percent to 20 percent of the population gets the flu; on average, more than 200,000 people are hospitalized from flu-related complications, and about 36,000 people die from flu-related causes. In February 2010, we acquired certain intellectual property rights and assets of Easy Check Medical Diagnostics, LLC, to expand our portfolio of non-invasive glucose-level testing products and diabetes management tools under development. Easy Check has two primary products under development: the Easy Check breath glucose detection system and the iGlucose ™ wireless communication device. The Easy Check breath glucose test, currently under development, is a non-invasive glucose detection system that measures acetone levels in a patient’s exhaled breath. The association between acetone levels in the breath and glucose is well documented, but previous data on the acetone/glucose correlation has been insufficient for reliable statistics. Easy Check’s breath glucose detection system combines a proprietary chemical mixture of natrium nitroprussid with breath exhalate, which is intended to create a new molecular compound that can be measured with its patent pending technology. We believe that the use of a heavy molecule to generate a chemical reaction that can be reliably measured may prove the close correlation between acetone concentrations found in a patient’s exhaled breath and glucose found in his or her blood. This could eliminate a patient’s need to prick his or her finger multiple times per day to get a blood sugar reading. Easy Check’s other product under development, the iGlucose system, uses wireless SMS messaging to automatically communicate a diabetic’s glucose readings to the iGlucose online database. iGlucose is intended to provide next generation, real-time data to improve diabetes management and help ensure patient compliance, data accuracy and insurance reimbursement. In addition, we believe that the iGlucose wireless communication device is the first to address the Medicare requirement for durable medical equipment manufacturers and pharmacies to maintain glucose level logs and records for the millions of high-frequency diabetes patients. 7 Table of Contents Our VeriMed system, which includes our VeriChip, is designed to rapidly and accurately identify people who are unconscious, confused or unable to communicate at the time of medical treatment, for example, upon arrival at a hospital emergency room. Our VeriMed system provides emergency room physicians and staff who use our scanner, linking a patient to the VeriMed Registry to have access to patient pre-approved information, including the patient’s name, primary care physician, emergency contact information, advance directives and, if the patient elects, other pertinent data, such as personal health records. In addition, we believe that our wireless handheld scanner could make the VeriMed system an important identification tool for EMTs and other emergency personnel outside the hospital emergency room setting. The components of our system include: • a glass-encapsulated microchip-equipped transponder, antenna, and capacitor; • a fixed location, or a wireless handheld, scanner; and • a secure, web-enabled database containing patient-approved information. The microchip used in the VeriMed system is a passive RFID microchip, approximately the size of a grain of rice, which is implanted under the skin in a patient’s upper right arm under the supervision of a physician. The capsule is coated with a polymer, BioBondTM to form adherence to human tissue, thereby preventing migration in the body. Each microchip contains a unique 16-digit identification number. The identification number can be read by one of our handheld scanners. When the scanner is placed within a few inches of the microchip, a small amount of radio frequency energy passes from the scanner, energizing the dormant microchip, which then emits a radio frequency signal transmitting the identification number. With that identification number, emergency room personnel or EMTs can securely obtain from our or a third party’s database the patient’s pre-approved information, including the patient’s name, primary care physician, emergency contact information, advance directives and, if the patient elects, other pertinent data, such as personal health records. Identity Security Products and Services NationalCreditReport.com is an emerging leader in the consumer provision of credit reports, credit score and credit monitoring products. This business provides an easy to use medium for consumers to retrieve and review their credit history, as well as monitor their credit files with one or all three of the major credit reporting bureaus: Experian, Equifax and TransUnion. We plan to add both credit and non-credit related products to our portfolio of services in 2010 some of which may include, but are not limited to, payday loan reporting and monitoring, national criminal reporting and monitoring, cyberspace reporting and monitoring, public record reporting and monitoring as well as data breach response and notification services. We also plan to sell our products and services directly to corporations to give to their employees as an employee benefit. The three credit reporting repositories have agreements with a number of credit reporting resellers, allowing them to in turn supply companies, like NationalCreditReport.com, that resell their products and services, separately or bundled, with other services to consumers. NCRC has an agreement with one of the resellers. Our products and services are offered to consumers principally on a monthly subscription basis. Subscription fees are generally billed directly to the subscriber’s credit card. The prices to subscribers of various configurations of our monitoring products and services range generally from $14.95 to $19.95 per month. As a means of allowing customers to become familiar with our services, we often offer free trial periods. A substantial number of our subscribers cancel their subscriptions each year. Because there is a marketing and search cost to acquire a new subscriber and produce initial fulfillment materials, subscribers typically must be retained for a number of months to cover these costs. Not all subscribers are retained for a sufficient period of time to achieve positive cash flow returns on these costs. Health Link Personal Health Record Health Link is a patient-controlled, online repository to store personal health information such as medications, allergies, family history, previous surgeries, vaccinations and lab results. Health Link also connects the patient to a multitude of customized materials such as personalized health education and online connectivity to caregivers. Through reminders and alerts that can be tailored to suit an individual’s unique circumstances, members are reminded of important actions and receive suggestions to better manage their health. This includes everything from refilling prescriptions on time, appointment reminders, drug interaction warnings, and tips for preventative actions. Health Link can be accessed from any location at any time through an internet connection. 8 Table of Contents According to Manhattan Research, LLC, a healthcare marketing services firm, 68 percent of all adults in the U.S. used the Internet in 2009 to obtain health information, compared to 64% of adults seeking such information from a doctor and 43% of adults seeking such information from friends or family members. According to Manhattan Research, the number of U.S. adults looking for health information online has increased from 63.3 million in 2002 to 157.5 million in 2009. Patients using the Health Link personal health record (“PHR”) are responsible for inputting all of their information into our database, including personal health records, as physicians’ offices are not yet typically involved in this process. Patients can also utilize Health Link to connect with numerous Electronic Medical Record (“EMR”) systems that are currently accessible through Microsoft HealthVault™ and Google Health. This interoperability will allow patients to automatically retrieve medical information and include that information, such as prescriptions from large pharmacy chains, laboratory diagnostic tests and many electronic devices (i.e. — glucose meters, blood pressure monitors and electronic scales), in their Health Link PHR. VeriMed System We believe that the use of the VeriMed System has the potential to improve patient care, enhance productivity and lower costs. The IDTechEx report refers to a study performed by the U.S. Institute of Medicine that estimated that preventable medical errors in the United States cause between 44,000 and 98,000 deaths each year, due in part to mistaken patient identification and lack of information on a patient’s medical history, and results in losses, other than the loss of human life, of $17 billion to $29 billion annually. These losses include the expense of additional care needed because of mistakes, disability, and lost productivity and income. One factor that can contribute to the occurrence of preventable medical errors is the inability to identify a patient and/or access his or her health records. Recognizing the problem of patient identification and access to medical records, the United States government is currently attempting to address certain inefficiencies in the healthcare system related to information technology. In particular, the current administration has developed a plan to move, in the next five years, toward broad adoption of standards-based electronic health information systems, including the computerization of the nation’s health records. In early 2007, we entered into a partnership with Alzheimer’s Community Care, or ACC, of West Palm Beach, Florida, in which PositveID and ACC will conduct a study of the effectiveness of the VeriMed System in managing the records of Alzheimer’s patients and their caregivers. In the two-year, 200 patient study, participating individuals suffering from Alzheimer’s disease and other forms of dementia, as well as their caregivers, would receive the VeriChip implantable microchip to provide emergency department staff easy access to those patients’ identification and medical information. Alzheimer’s disease is one of several medical conditions we identify as being ideally suited for the benefits of the VeriMed system since individuals with the disease or other forms of dementia are often unable to give necessary identifying information or critical medical history upon being admitted to a hospital. ACC also believes it is important for caregivers to obtain the implantable VeriMed. If a caregiver becomes ill, the VeriMed database will inform medical personnel that he or she is the caregiver for someone unable to care for themselves. All participants in the study will be voluntary. The legally designated responsible party of an Alzheimer’s patient unable to make medical decisions must give permission for the patient to participate. As of December 31, 2009, more than 100 patients and caregivers have received the VeriChip as part of this study. Other Applications During 2009, in conjunction with Raytheon Microelectronics España, we developed an 8mm microchip, which has functionality that is substantially equivalent to the VeriChip. This development was done under a Development and Supply Agreement with Medical Components, Inc. (“Medcomp”), a leading global manufacturer of vascular access catheters, to develop and manufacture a RFID microchip for implantation into Medcomp’s vascular access medical devices on an exclusive basis. Under this agreement, if the Medcomp product is cleared by the FDA, Medcomp has committed to minimum purchase of $3,005,000 over a five year period. We also have another system that utilizes the implantable microchip, our VeriTrace system. Our VeriTrace system was conceived of in the wake of Hurricane Katrina, when we donated implantable microchips to FEMA’s Department of Mortuary Services in Mississippi and Louisiana to help with FEMA’s efforts to identify corpses. Our implantable microchips were used to provide an end-to-end tagging solution for the accurate tracking and identification of human remains and associated evidentiary items. 9 Table of Contents Sales, Marketing and Distribution Our sales, marketing and distribution plan for our Healthcare Products is to align with large medical distribution companies, and either manufacture the products to their specification or license the products and underlying technology to them. Our Identity Security products and services are marketed to consumers primarily through online advertising, email marketing, paid search, strategic marketing partnerships, as well as search engine marketing (SEM) and search engine optimization (SEO) strategies. We plan to market our Health Link PHR to patients through partnerships with healthcare providers, insurers, Health Information Exchanges, Regional Health Information Organizations, EMR system vendors, and other related healthcare entities and healthcare providers. As we continue to add patient subscribers through these strategic relationships, we will seek further partnerships with pharmaceutical companies and medical device manufacturers who wish to communicate with our on-line community through various forms of value added content. Manufacturing; Supply Arrangements We have historically outsourced the manufacturing of all the hardware components of our RFID systems to third parties. As of February 28, 2010, we have not had material difficulties obtaining system components. We believe that if any of our manufacturers or suppliers were to cease supplying us with system components, we would be able to procure alternative sources without material disruption to our business. We plan to continue to outsource any manufacturing requirements of our current and under development products. Through 2008, Digital Angel was our sole supplier of the implantable microchips, which it obtained from Raytheon Microelectronics España, a subsidiary of Raytheon Company, or RME, under the terms of a separate supply agreement which was terminated on November 12, 2008. Since that time we have been contracting with RME directly. Environmental Regulation We must comply with local, state, federal, and international environmental laws and regulations in the countries in which we do business, including laws and regulations governing the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes. We expect our operations and products will be affected by future environmental laws and regulations, but we cannot predict the effects of any such future laws and regulations at this time. Our distributors who place our products on the market in the European Union are required to comply with EU Directive 2002/96/EC on waste electrical and electronic equipment, known as the WEEE Directive. Noncompliance by our distributors with EU Directive 2002/96/EC would adversely affect the success of our business in that market. Additionally, we are investigating the applicability of EU Directive 2002/95/EC on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment, known as the RoHS Directive which took effect on July 1, 2006. We do not expect the RoHS Directive will have a significant impact on our business. Government Regulation Laws and Regulations Pertaining to RFID Technologies Our RFID systems that use our implantable microchip rely on low-power, localized use of radio frequency spectrum to operate. As a result, we must comply with U.S. Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, and Industry Canada regulations, as well as the laws and regulations of other jurisdictions governing the design, testing, marketing, operation and sale of RFID devices if and when we sell our products. Accordingly, all of our products and systems have a paired FCC and Industry Canada equipment authorization. U.S. Federal Communications Commission Regulations Under FCC regulations and Section 302 of the Communications Act, RFID devices, including those we market and sell, must be authorized and comply with all applicable technical standards and labeling requirements prior to being marketed in the United States. The FCC’s rules prescribe technical, operational and design requirements for devices that operate on the electromagnetic spectrum at very low powers. The rules ensure that such devices do not cause interference to licensed spectrum services, mislead consumers regarding their operational capabilities or produce emissions that are harmful to human health. Our RFID devices are intentional radiators, as defined in the FCC’s rules. As such, our devices may not cause harmful interference to licensed services and must accept any interference received. We must construct all equipment in accordance with good engineering design as well as manufacturers’ practices. 10 Table of Contents Manufacturers of RFID devices must submit testing results and/or other technical information demonstrating compliance with the FCC’s rules in the form of an application for equipment authorization. The FCC processes each application when it is in a form acceptable for filing and, upon grant, issues an equipment identification number. Each of our RFID devices must bear a label which displays the equipment authorization number, as well as specific language set forth in the FCC’s rules. In addition, each device must include a user manual cautioning users that changes or modifications not expressly approved by the manufacturer could void the equipment authorization. As a condition of each FCC equipment authorization, we warrant that each of our devices marked under the grant and bearing the grant identifier will conform to all the technical and operational measurements submitted with the application. RFID devices used and/or sold in interstate commerce must meet these requirements or the equipment authorization may be revoked, the devices may be seized and a forfeiture may be assessed against the equipment authorization grantee. The FCC requires all holders of equipment authorizations to maintain a copy of each authorization together with all supporting documentation and make these records available for FCC inspection upon request. The FCC may also conduct periodic sampling tests of equipment to ensure compliance. We believe we are in substantial compliance with all FCC requirements applicable to our products and systems. Regulation by the FDA Our VeriChip microchip is a medical device subject to regulation by the FDA, as well as other federal and state regulatory bodies in the United States and comparable authorities in other countries. In October 2004, the VeriMed system received classification as a Class II medical device by the FDA for patient identification and health information purposes. The FDA also permits us to market and sell the VeriMed system in the United States. FDA Premarket Clearance and Approval Requirements. Generally speaking, unless an exemption applies, each medical device we wish to distribute commercially in the United States will require either prior clearance under Section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FFDCA, or a premarket approval application, or PMA, from the FDA. Medical devices are classified into one of three classes — Class I, Class II or Class III — depending on the degree of risk to the patient associated with the medical device and the extent of control needed to ensure safety and effectiveness. Devices deemed to pose lower risks are placed in either Class I or II. The manufacturer of a Class II device is typically required to submit to the FDA a premarket notification requesting permission to commercially distribute the device and demonstrating that the proposed device is substantially equivalent to a previously cleared and legally marketed 510(k) device or a device that was in commercial distribution before May 28, 1976 for which the FDA has not yet called for the submission of a PMA. This process is known as 510(k) clearance. Devices deemed by the FDA to pose the greatest risk, such as life-sustaining, life-supporting implantable devices, or devices deemed not substantially equivalent to a previously cleared 510(k) device, are generally placed in Class III, requiring premarket approval. In October 2004, we received classification of our VeriMed system as a Class II device. In granting this classification, the FDA created a new device category for “implantable radiofrequency transponder systems for patient identification and health information.” The FDA also determined that devices that meet this description will be exempt from 510(k) premarket clearance so long as they comply with the FFDCA, its implementing regulations and the provisions of an FDA guidance document issued by the FDA in December 2004, entitled “ Guidance for Industry and FDA Staff, Class II Special Controls Guidance Document: Implantable Radiofrequency Transponder System for Patient Identification and Health Information,” that establishes special controls for this type of device. The special controls, which are intended to ensure that the device is safe and effective for its intended use, include the following: biocompatibility testing, information security procedures, performance standard verification, software validation, electro-magnetic compatibility and sterility testing. We believe that we are in compliance with FFDCA, its implementing regulations and the December 2004 guidance document. Similarly, a company that wishes to market products that will compete with the VeriMed system will not be required to submit a 510(k) premarket clearance application to the FDA if they comply with the requirements of the special controls guidance document as well as a full spectrum of FDA regulations, described more fully below. In January, 2007, the FDA published a Draft Guidance entitled “Radio-Frequency Wireless Technology in Medical Devices.” This document includes the FDA’s current recommendations regarding specific risks and limitations to be considered when developing and implementing a Quality System for medical devices using radio frequency wireless technology, as well as additional information to be included in the labeling for such devices. We believe our Quality System and labeling for our VeriMed System meet the recommendations outlined in the draft guidance. 11 Table of Contents Pervasive and Continuing Regulation. After a medical device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements continue to apply. These include: • quality system regulations, or QSR, which require manufacturers, including third-party manufacturers, to follow stringent design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during all aspects of the manufacturing process; • labeling regulations and FDA prohibitions against the promotion of regulated products for uncleared, unapproved or off-label uses; • clearance or approval of product modifications that could significantly affect safety or effectiveness or that would constitute a major change in intended use; • medical device reporting, or MDR, regulations, which require that a manufacturer report to the FDA if the manufacturer’s device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur; and • post-market surveillance regulations, which apply when necessary to protect the public health or to provide additional safety and effectiveness data for the device. Regulation of Identity Security Products We market our consumer products and services through a variety of marketing channels, including online marketing channels, which include online advertising, email marketing, paid search, as well as search engine marketing (SEM) and search engine optimization (SEO) strategies, direct mail, outbound telemarketing, inbound telemarketing, inbound customer service and account activation calls. These channels are subject to both federal and state laws and regulations. Federal and state laws and regulations may limit our ability to market to new subscribers or offer additional services to existing subscribers. Email marketing of our services is subject to the Federal Trade Commission’s CAN Spam act which is a law that regulates the use of email communications as a marketing tool to potential, current and inactive subscribers. The CAN Spam act lists certain rules and regulations that define the information that must be contained in email marketing messages being sent from a company which include, but are not limited the provision of an opt-out link which gives the consumers the option to opt out of further email communications from a company. These laws may affect our use of email to market to or communicate with subscribers or potential subscribers. The Fair Credit Reporting Act, or FCRA, governs, among other things, the sharing of consumer report information among affiliated and unaffiliated third parties; access to credit scores; and requirements for data furnishers and users of consumer report information. Violation of the FCRA, or of similar state laws, can result in an award of actual damages, as well as statutory and/or punitive damages in the event of a willful violation. In 2003, Congress amended the FCRA with the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 (“FACTA”). FACTA allows consumers to obtain a free credit report once a year from each of the three nationwide consumer credit reporting agencies. FACTA also contains provisions intended to reduce identity theft, such as allowing consumers to place alerts on their credit histories and mandating secure disposal of certain categories of information. The Gramm-Leach Bliley Act (“GLBA”) requires “financial institutions” to comply with detailed privacy and data security regulations. Under GLBA, the FTC was given authority to regulate certain financial institutions that are not otherwise subject to the enforcement authority of another regulator. Entities falling within the purview of the FTC’s regulations must, among other things, provide notices to customers about the entity’s privacy policies and practices as well as information on disclosure of information. Telemarketing of our services is subject to federal and state telemarketing regulation. Federal statutes and regulations adopted by the Federal Trade Commission and Federal Communications Commission impose various restrictions on the conduct of telemarketing. The Federal Trade Commission also has enacted the national Do Not Call Registry, which enables consumers to elect to prohibit telemarketers from calling them. We may not be able to reach potential subscribers because they are placed on the national Do Not Call Registry. Many states have adopted, and others are considering adopting, statutes or regulations that specifically affect telemarketing activities. Although we do not control the telemarketing firms that it engages to market its programs, in some cases we are responsible for compliance with these federal and state laws and regulations. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission and virtually all state attorneys general have authority to prevent marketing activities that constitute unfair or deceptive acts or practices. 12 Table of Contents Fraud and Abuse We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and Veterans Affairs health programs. We have never been challenged by a government authority under any of these laws and believe that our operations are in material compliance with such laws. However, because of the far-reaching nature of these laws, there can be no assurance that we would not be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. In addition, there can be no assurance that the occurrence of one or more violations of these laws would not result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Anti-Kickback Laws We may directly or indirectly be subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws. In particular, the federal healthcare program Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing, arranging for or recommending a good or service, for which payment may be made in whole or part under federal healthcare programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Penalties for violations include criminal penalties and civil sanctions such as fines, imprisonment and possible exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs. Federal False Claims Act We may become subject to the Federal False Claims Act, or FCA. The FCA imposes civil fines and penalties against anyone who knowingly submits or causes to be submitted to a government agency a false claim for payment. The FCA contains so-called “whistle-blower” provisions that permit a private individual to bring a claim, called a qui tam action, on behalf of the government to recover payments made as a result of a false claim. The statute provides that the whistle-blower may be paid a portion of any funds recovered as a result of the lawsuit. Even though the VeriMed system is not reimbursed by federal healthcare programs, it is still possible that we may be liable for violations of the FCA, for instance, if a sales representative were to assist or instruct a physician to bill a government program for microchip implantation by listing on the claim form some other service that is reimbursable. State Laws and Regulations Many states have enacted laws similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and FCA. The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 contains provisions that give monetary incentives to states to enact new state false claims acts. The state Attorneys General are actively engaged in promoting the passage and enforcement of these laws. While the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute and FCA apply only to federal programs, many similar state laws apply both to state funded and to commercial health care programs. In addition to these laws, all states have passed various consumer protection statutes. These statutes generally prohibit deceptive and unfair marketing practices, including making untrue or exaggerated claims regarding consumer products. There are potentially a wide variety of other state laws, including state privacy laws, to which we might be subject. We have not conducted an exhaustive examination of these state laws. Privacy Laws and Regulations Our VeriMed business is subject to various federal and state laws regulating the protection of consumer privacy. We have never been challenged by a governmental authority under any of these laws and believe that our operations are in material compliance with such laws. However, because of the far-reaching nature of these laws, there can be no assurance that we would not be required to alter one or more of our systems and data security procedures to be in compliance with these laws. Our failure to protect health information received from customers could subject us to liability and adverse publicity and could harm our business and impair our ability to attract new customers. 13 Table of Contents U.S. Federal Trade Commission Oversight An increasing focus of the United States Federal Trade Commission’s (FTC’s) consumer protection regulation is the impact of technological change on protection of consumer privacy. Under the FTC’s statutory authority to prosecute unfair or deceptive acts and practices, the FTC vigorously enforces promises a business makes about how personal information is collected, used and secured. Since 1999, the FTC has taken enforcement action against companies that do not abide by their representations to consumers of electronic security and privacy. More recently, the FTC has found that failure to take reasonable and appropriate security measures to protect sensitive personal information is an unfair practice violating federal law. In the consent decree context, offenders are routinely required to adopt very specific cyber security and internal compliance mechanisms, as well as submit to twenty years of independent compliance audits. Businesses that do not adopt reasonable and appropriate data security controls have been found liable for as much as $10 million in civil penalties and $5 million in consumer redress. The FTC has considered the potential impact of RFID on consumer protection issues although this does not appear to be a current regulatory priority. In 2006, the FTC launched a new initiative, “Protecting Consumers in the Next Tech-ade” and convened public hearings on November 6-8, 2006 that brought together experts from the business, government and technology sectors as well as consumer advocates, academics and law enforcement officials to explore ways in which convergence and the globalization of commerce impact consumer protection. Panelists examined changes in marketing and technology over the past decade and challenges facing consumers, business and government. One of the panels, entitled “RFID Technology in the Next Tech-ade,” focused on the role of RFID in the healthcare and retail sectors. On September 23, 2008, the FTC convened a Transatlantic RFID Workshop on Consumer Privacy and Data Security to consider RFID issues of relevance to both the United States and the European Commission. The FTC has not engaged in any formal activities relating to RFID since 2008. State Legislation The states of California, North Dakota, Wisconsin and Oklahoma have adopted laws prohibiting chip implantation without the recipient’s prior consent. A number of states also introduced legislation focusing on the consumer privacy implications of RFID use in government identification documents, prescription drug tracking, retail sales, healthcare records and tracking of one individual by another. The states of California, Michigan, Nevada, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Texas, Vermont and Washington enacted laws preserving consumer privacy relating to government identification documents, RFID-enabled credit and ATM cards, and other RFID documents. As of December 31, 2009, none of this legislative activity restricts our current or planned operations. Many states have privacy laws relating specifically to the use and disclosure of healthcare information. Federal healthcare privacy laws may preempt state laws that are less restrictive or offer fewer protections for healthcare information than the federal law if it is impossible to comply with both sets of laws. More restrictive or protective state laws still may apply to us, and state laws will still apply to the extent that they are not contrary to federal law. Therefore, we may be required to comply with one or more of these multiple state privacy laws. Statutory penalties for violation of these state privacy laws varies widely. Violations also may subject us to lawsuits for invasion of privacy claims. Many states currently have laws in place requiring organizations to notify individuals if there has been unauthorized access to their unencrypted personal information. Several states also require organizations to notify the applicable state Attorney General or other governmental entity in the event of a data breach, and may also require notification to consumer reporting agencies if the number of individuals involved surpasses a defined threshold. We may be required to comply with one or more of these notice of security breach laws in the event of unauthorized access to personal information. In addition to statutory penalties for a violation of the notice of security breach laws, we may be exposed to liability from impacted individuals. Title 201, Section 17.00 of the Code of Massachusetts Regulations (“Regulation 201”) establishes standards for the protection of personal information of Massachusetts residents. Under Regulation 201, we may be required to develop, implement and maintain a written information security program designed to protect such personal information. We may also be required to perform a risk assessment of our existing safeguards, and improve those areas where there is a reasonably foreseeable risk to the security, confidentiality and/or integrity of any electronic, paper or other records that contain personal information about Massachusetts residents. Although Regulation 201 itself does not include a remedy provision, the Massachusetts Attorney General may be able to levy fines against us pursuant to other laws, and we may also be exposed to liability from impacted individuals. 14 Table of Contents The European Union In the European Union (EU), promotion of RFID technology is viewed as a critical economic issue. It is established that insofar as RFID is a technology involving collection, sharing and storage of personally identifiable information, the mandates of Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the Protection of Individuals With Regard to the Processing of Personal Data and On the Free Movement of Such Data (“EU Data Directive”) applies. All 25 EU member countries have implemented the EU data directive. In addition, Directive 2002/58/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 July 2002 concerning the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the electronic communications sector is also applicable. At issue today is whether additional privacy protection laws beyond those prescribed by the EU data directive and its country-specific laws, as well as the electronic communications directive, are needed for privacy issues raised by RFID technology. On January 19, 2005, the EU’s Working Party 29, charged with interpretation and expansion of EU data protection law and policy, and adopted Working Document 105, addressing data protection issues related to RFID technology. That document reinforced the need to comply with the basic principles of the EU data directive and related documents whenever personal data is collected via RFID technology. Guidance to RFID manufacturers was also provided regarding responsibilities to design privacy compliant technology. On May 5, 2009, the Commission of the European Communities adopted a Commission Recommendation on the Implementation of Privacy and Data Protection Principles in Applications Supported by Radio-Frequency Identification (SEC(2009)585, SEC(2009)586). This document provides recommendations regarding the privacy, data protection and security problems related to RFID uses, particularly in business-to-consumer environments. The objective is to stimulate innovation through wider adoption of RFID applications, facilitate interoperable RFID uses and adopt similar privacy and security approaches in different EU Member States. It is noted that biometric identification data or health-related data are especially critical with regard to information security and privacy, therefore requiring specific attention. As of December 31, 2009, none of these recommendations restricts our current or planned operations. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 Under the federal Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (the “HITECH Act”), we are subject to certain federal privacy and security requirements relating to individually identifiable health information we maintain. To the extent required by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”), we have entered into business associate agreements with certain health care providers and health plans relating to the privacy and security of protected health information. We have implemented policies and procedures to enable us to comply with these HIPAA business associate agreements. Under the HITECH Act, we are required by federal law to comply with those business associate agreements, as well as certain privacy and security requirements found in HIPAA and the HITECH Act as they relate to our activities as a business associate. As a vendor of personal health records, the HITECH Act also requires us to notify individuals if there is a breach of security of individually identifiable health information held in a personal health record. If we do experience such a breach, we must notify each individual whose information was acquired by an unauthorized person, and we must also notify the FTC. Failure to comply with these federal privacy and security laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties. Employees As of February 28, 2010, we had 20 employees, of whom 8 were in management, finance and administration, 5 in medical and business development, and 7 in customer support. We consider our relationship with our employees to be satisfactory and have not experienced any interruptions of our operations as a result of labor disagreements. None of our employees are represented by labor unions or covered by collective bargaining agreements. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risks and the risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” could materially affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. If any these risks materialize, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. 15 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Operations and Business of PositiveID PositiveID has a history of losses, and expects to incur additional losses in the future. PositiveID is unable to predict the extent of future losses or when it will become profitable. Through December 31, 2009, PositiveID has experienced operating losses and as of December 31, 2009 its accumulated deficit was $54.0 million. PositiveID expects to continue to incur operating losses for the near future. Its ability in the future to achieve or sustain profitability is based on a number of factors, many of which are beyond its control. Even if it achieves profitability in the future, it may not be able to sustain profitability in subsequent periods. PositiveID’s long-term capital needs may require additional sources of capital, and there can be no assurances that it will be successful in negotiating additional sources of long-term capital. PositiveID’s long-term capital needs may require additional sources of equity or credit. There can be no assurances that it will be successful in negotiating additional sources of equity or credit for its long-term capital needs. PositiveID’s inability to have continuous access to such financing at reasonable costs could materially and adversely impact its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Compliance with changing regulations concerning corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. There have been changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, new regulations promulgated by the SEC and rules promulgated by the national securities exchanges and the NASDAQ. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. As a result, PositiveID’s efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards are likely to continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. PositiveID’s board members and executive officers could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, PositiveID may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm its business. If PositiveID’s efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies, it could be subject to liability under applicable laws or its reputation may be harmed. PositiveID depends on key personnel to manage its business effectively, and, if it is unable to hire, retain or motivate qualified personnel, its ability to design, develop, market and sell its systems could be harmed. PositiveID’s future success depends, in part, on certain key employees, including Scott R. Silverman, its chairman of the board and chief executive officer, and William J. Caragol, its president and chief financial officer, as well as key technical and operations personnel, and on PositiveID’s ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. The loss of the services of any of its key personnel may seriously harm its business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly operations, finance, accounting, sales and marketing personnel, may also seriously harm its business, financial condition and results of operations. PositiveID’s ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel will be a critical factor in determining whether we will be successful in the future. During 2009, PositiveID failed to meet applicable Nasdaq Stock Market requirements. If in the future PositiveID were to fail to meet one of these requirements, its stock could be delisted by the Nasdaq Stock Market. If delisting occurs, it would adversely affect the market liquidity of its common stock and harm its businesses. If PositiveID’s common stock is delisted from the Nasdaq Stock Market, trading of its common stock most likely will be conducted in the over-the-counter market on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities, such as the OTC Bulletin Board. Delisting would adversely affect the market liquidity of its common stock and harm PositiveID’s business and may hinder or delay its ability to consummate potential strategic transactions or investments. Such delisting could also adversely affect PositiveID’s ability to obtain financing for the continuation of its operations and could result in the loss of confidence by investors, suppliers and employees. 16 Table of Contents We will continue to incur the expenses of complying with public company reporting requirements. We have an obligation to continue to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, which includes the filing with the SEC of periodic reports, proxy statements and other documents relating to our business, financial conditions and other matters, even though compliance with such reporting requirements is economically burdensome. Directors, executive officers, principal stockholders and affiliated entities own a significant percentage of PositiveID’s capital stock, and they may make decisions that you do not consider to be in the best interests of its stockholders. As of March 5, 2010, PositiveID’s current directors and executive officer beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 55.6% of PositiveID’s outstanding voting securities. As a result, if some or all of them acted together, they would have the ability to exert substantial influence over the election of the board of directors and the outcome of issues requiring approval by PositiveID’s stockholders. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of PositiveID that may be favored by other stockholders. This could prevent transactions in which stockholders might otherwise recover a premium for their shares over current market prices. Risks Related to PositiveID’s Product Development Efforts PositiveID and its development partner Receptors LLC are in the early stages of developing a rapid influenza detection system for the H1N1 virus and an in vivo glucose-sensing RFID microchip, the effectiveness of both of which is unproven. PositiveID and its development partner, Receptors, are engaged in the research and development of applying Receptors’ patented AFFINITY by DESIGNTM CARATM platform to the detection and classification of pandemic threat viruses, such as the H1N1 virus, as well as the research and development of an in vivo glucose-sensing RFID microchip. The effectiveness of this detection system and the effectiveness of this sensor/microchip system are yet to be determined. As a result, there can be no assurance that PositiveID and Receptors will be able to successfully employ these development-stage products as diagnostic solutions for either the detection of strains of influenza and other viruses or for the detection of glucose in vivo. Any failure to establish the efficacy or safety of these development-stage products could have a material adverse effect on PositiveID’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. PositiveID’s product research and development activities may not result in a commercially-viable rapid influenza detection system, in vivo glucose-sensing RFID microchip, Easy Check breath glucose detection system, or iGlucose wireless communication device. All products are in the early stages of development, and are therefore prone to the risks of failure inherent in diagnostic product development. PositiveID or Receptors may be required to complete and undertake significant clinical trials to demonstrate to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, that these products are safe and effective to the satisfaction of the FDA and other non-United States regulatory authorities or for their respective, intended uses, or are substantially equivalent in terms of safety and effectiveness to existing, lawfully-marketed, non-premarket approved devices. Clinical trials are expensive and uncertain processes that often take years to complete. Failure can occur at any stage of the process, and successful early positive results do not ensure that the entire clinical trial or later clinical trials will be successful. Product candidates in clinical-stage trials may fail to show desired efficacy and safety traits despite early promising results. If the research and development activities of PositiveID or Receptors do not result in commercially-viable products, PositiveID’s business, results of operations, financial condition, and stock price could be adversely affected. Even if the FDA or similar non-United States regulatory authorities grant PositiveID regulatory approval of a product, the approval may take longer than PositiveID anticipates and may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or contain requirements for costly post-marketing follow up studies. Moreover, if PositiveID fails to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, PositiveID may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. 17 Table of Contents The success and timing of development efforts, clinical trials, regulatory approvals, product introductions, collaboration and licensing arrangements, any termination of development efforts and other material events could cause volatility in our stock price. Volatility in PositiveID’s stock price will depend on many factors, including: • success of the development partnership between PositiveID and Receptors and related development costs; • success and timing of regulatory filings and approvals for the rapid influenza detection system and the in vivo glucose-sensing RFID microchip, the Easy Check breath glucose detection system, and the iGlucose wireless communication device; • success and timing of commercialization and product introductions of the rapid influenza detection system and the in vivo glucose-sensing RFID microchip, the Easy Check breath glucose detection system, and the iGlucose wireless communication device; • introduction of competitive products into the market; • results of clinical trials for the rapid influenza detection system and the in vivo glucose-sensing RFID microchip, the Easy Check breath glucose detection system, and the iGlucose wireless communication device; • a finding that Receptors’ patented AFFINITY by DESIGNtm CARAtm platform is invalid or unenforceable, the Easy Check breath glucose detection system, and the iGlucose wireless communication device; • a finding that the rapid influenza detection system or the in vivo glucose-sensing RFID microchip, the Easy Check breath glucose detection system, and the iGlucose wireless communication device infringes the patents of a third party; • our ability to obtain a patent on the Easy Check breath glucose detection system and the iGlucose wireless communication device; • our ability to obtain a patent on the Easy Check breath glucose detection system and the iGlucose wireless communication device; • payment of any royalty payments under licensing agreements; • unfavorable publicity regarding PositiveID, Receptors, or either of the companies’ products or competitive products; • termination of development efforts for the rapid influenza detection system, the in vivo glucose-sensing RFID microchip, the Easy Check breath glucose detection system, or the iGlucose wireless communication device; • timing of expenses PositiveID may incur with respect to any license or acquisition of products or technologies; and • termination of development efforts of any product under development or any development or collaboration agreement. 18 Table of Contents PositiveID anticipates future losses and may require additional financing, and PositiveID’s failure to obtain additional financing when needed could force PositiveID to delay, reduce or eliminate PositiveID’s product development programs or commercialization efforts. PositiveID anticipates future losses and therefore may be dependent on additional financing to execute its business plan. Although PositiveID currently has the funding needed to pay for the planned development of its current projects, its plans for expansion may still require additional financing. In particular, PositiveID may require additional capital in order to continue to conduct the research and development and obtain regulatory clearances and approvals necessary to bring any future products to market and to establish effective marketing and sales capabilities for existing and future products. PositiveID’s operating plan may change, and it may need additional funds sooner than anticipated to meet its operational needs and capital requirements for product development, clinical trials and commercialization. Additional funds may not be available when PositiveID needs them on terms that are acceptable to PositiveID, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on a timely basis, PositiveID may terminate or delay the development of one or more of its products, or delay establishment of sales and marketing capabilities or other activities necessary to commercialize its products. Therefore, PositiveID does not know whether any planned development phases or clinical trials for the rapid influenza detection system or the in vivo glucose-sensing RFID microchip the Easy Check breath glucose detection system, or the iGlucose wireless communication device will be completed on schedule, or at all. Furthermore, PositiveID cannot guarantee that any planned development phases or clinical trials will begin on time or at all. PositiveID’s future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: the costs of expanding PositiveID’s sales and marketing infrastructure and manufacturing operations; the degree of success PositiveID experiences in developing and commercializing the rapid influenza detection system and the in vivo glucose-sensing RFID microchip; the Easy Check breath glucose detection system, and the iGlucose wireless communication device ; the number and types of future products PositiveID develops and commercializes; the costs, timing and outcomes of regulatory reviews associated with PositiveID’s current and future product candidates; the costs of preparing, filing and prosecuting patent applications and maintaining, enforcing and defending intellectual property-related claims; and the extent and scope of PositiveID’s general and administrative expenses. PositiveID’s future product development efforts may not yield marketable products due to results of studies or trials, failure to achieve regulatory approvals or market acceptance, proprietary rights of others or manufacturing issues. Development of a product candidate requires substantial technical, financial and human resources. PositiveID’s potential product candidates may appear to be promising at various stages of development yet fail to timely reach the market for a number of reasons, including: the lack of adequate quality or sufficient prevention benefit, or unacceptable safety during preclinical studies or clinical trials; PositiveID’s or its collaborative development partners’ failure to receive necessary regulatory approvals on a timely basis, or at all; the existence of proprietary rights of third parties; or the inability to develop manufacturing methods that are efficient, cost-effective and capable of meeting stringent regulatory standards. PositiveID’s industry changes rapidly as a result of technological and product developments, which may quickly render PositiveID’s product candidates less desirable or even obsolete. If PositiveID is unable or unsuccessful in supplementing its product offerings, its revenue and operating results may be materially adversely affected. The industry in which PositiveID operates is subject to rapid technological change. The introduction of new technologies in the market, including the delay in the adoption of these technologies, as well as new alternatives for the delivery of products and services will continue to have a profound effect on competitive conditions in this market. PositiveID may not be able to develop and introduce new products, services and enhancements that respond to technological changes on a timely basis. If PositiveID’s product candidates are not accepted by the market as anticipated, if at all, PositiveID’s business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents If PositiveID or Receptors are unable to develop and later market the products under development in a timely manner or at all, or if competitors develop or introduce similar products that achieve commercialization before the products enter the market, the demand for the products may decrease or the products could become obsolete. The products will operate in competitive markets, where competitors may already be well established. PositiveID expects that competitors will continue to innovate and to develop and introduce similar products that could be competitive in both price and performance. Competitors may succeed in developing or introducing similar products earlier than PositiveID or Receptors, obtaining regulatory approvals and clearances for such products before the products are approved and cleared, or developing more effective products. In addition, competitors may have products that have already been approved or are in a stage of advanced development, which may achieve commercialization before the products enter the market. If a competitor’s products reach the market before the products, they may gain a competitive advantage, impair the ability of PositiveID or Receptors to commercialize the products, or render the products obsolete. There can be no assurance that developments by competitors will not render the products obsolete or noncompetitive. PositiveID’s financial performance may be negatively impacted if a competitor’s successful product innovation reaches the market before the products or gains broader market acceptance. PositiveID believes that the products have certain technological advantages, but maintaining these advantages will require continual investment in research and development, and later in sales and marketing. There is no guarantee that PositiveID or Receptors will be successful in maintaining these advantages. Nor is there any guarantee that PositiveID or Receptors will be successful in completing development of the products in any clinical trials or in achieving sales of the products, or that future margins on such products will be acceptable. Risks Occasioned by the Xmark Transaction PositiveID will be unable to compete with Xmark’s business for four years from the date of closing. PositiveID has agreed that, for a period of four years after the closing of the Xmark Transaction, or July 2012, it will not (i) directly or indirectly participate with, control or own an interest in any entity that is engaged in the business of manufacturing, selling, financing, supplying, marketing or distributing infant security systems, wander prevention systems, asset/personnel and identification systems, and vibration monitoring instruments anywhere in the world or (ii) solicit, induce, encourage or attempt to persuade any employee of Xmark to terminate his or her employment relationship with Xmark, or offer to hire any Xmark employee. PositiveID’s remaining business, the VeriMed business, is not deemed to compete with Xmark’s business. However, the non-compete provisions will restrict its ability to engage in any business that competes with Xmark’s business until July 2012. Industry and Business Risks Related to Our ID Security Business PositiveID is unable to control many of the factors affecting consumer spending, and declines in consumer spending could reduce demand for PositiveID’s products. PositiveID’s business depends on consumer demand for its products and, consequently, is sensitive to a number of factors that influence consumer spending, including general economic conditions, disposable consumer income, fuel prices, recession and fears of recession, war and fears of war, inclement weather, consumer debt, conditions in the housing market, interest rates, sales tax rates and rate increases, inflation, consumer confidence in future economic conditions and political conditions, and consumer perceptions of personal well-being and security. In particular, an economic downturn leads to decreased discretionary spending, which adversely impacts PositiveID’s business. Adverse changes in factors affecting discretionary consumer spending could reduce consumer demand for its products, thus reducing its sales and harming its business and operating results. 20 Table of Contents The identity security market including PositiveID faces a significant amount of subscriber churn. As a result, PositiveID must obtain the subscribers it loses in the ordinary course of business and, if it fails to do so, its revenue and subscriber base will decline. A substantial number of subscribers to PositiveID’s consumer products and services cancel their subscriptions each year. Cancellations may occur due to numerous factors, including: • changing subscriber preferences; • competitive price pressures; • general economic conditions; • cancellation of subscribers due to credit card declines; and • credit or charge card holder turnover. If PositiveID fails to replace subscribers to its consumer products and services it loses in the ordinary course of business, its revenue may decline, causing a material adverse impact on the results of its operations. There can be no assurance that it can successfully replace the large number of subscribers that cancel each year. Marketing laws and regulations may materially limit PositiveID’s or its clients’ ability to offer PositiveID products and services to consumers. PositiveID markets its consumer products and services through a variety of marketing channels, including direct mail, outbound telemarketing, inbound telemarketing, inbound customer service and account activation calls, email, mass media and the internet. These channels are subject to both federal and state laws and regulations. Federal and state laws and regulations may limit its ability to market to new subscribers or offer additional services to existing subscribers, which may have a material impact on PositiveID’s ability to sell its services. If PositiveID loses its ability to purchase data from a credit data reseller, some of which are PositiveID’s competitor, which credit data reseller purchases the data from the three major credit reporting repositories, demand for its services would decrease. PositiveID relies on credit data resellers, who in turn rely on the three major credit reporting repositories, Equifax, Experian and TransUnion, to provide it with essential data for its consumer identity theft protection and credit management services. Each of the three major credit reporting repositories owns its consumer credit data and is a competitor of PositiveID in providing credit information directly to consumers, and may decide that it is in their competitive interests to stop indirectly supplying data to PositiveID. Any interruption, deterioration or termination of PositiveID’s relationship with its credit data reseller, or one or more of the three credit reporting repositories would be disruptive to PositiveID’s business and could cause PositiveID to lose subscribers. PositiveID’s competitors, including those who have greater resources and experience than PositiveID has, may commercialize technologies that make PositiveID’s obsolete or noncompetitive. There are many public and private companies, actively engaged in PositiveID’s line of business and that target the same markets that it targets. Some of PositiveID’s current competitors have significantly greater financial, marketing and product development resources than PositiveID does. Low barriers to entry into its line of business may result in new competitors entering the markets PositiveID serves. If PositiveID’s competitors market products that are more effective and less expensive than its products, PositiveID may not be able to achieve commercial success. Industry and Business Risks Related to Our HealthID Business PositiveID may never achieve market acceptance or significant sales of its healthcare products or systems. Through March 5, 2010, PositiveID had generated nominal revenue from sales of its VeriMed system, its diabetes management products, and Rapid Influenza Detection System, which are products under development. It may never achieve market acceptance or more than nominal or modest sales of these products and systems. 21 Table of Contents PositiveID does not expect to generate revenue from its VeriMed business over the next 12 to 24 months. PositiveID’s VeriMed business generated gross sales of $43,000 in 2008 and $162,000 in 2009. PositiveID is currently focused on its Health Link personal health records business, the development of the glucose sensing microchip and the development of other sensor applications, its Rapid Influenza Detection System, and is considering and will review other strategic opportunities. However, there can be no assurance that PositiveID will be able to successfully develop or implement such options or strategic alternatives. Implantation of PositiveID’s implantable microchip may be found to cause risks to a person’s health, which could adversely affect sales of its systems that incorporate the implantable microchip. The implantation of PositiveID’s implantable microchip may be found, or be perceived, to cause risks to a person’s health. Potential or perceived risks include adverse tissue reactions, migration of the microchip and infection from implantation. There have been articles published asserting, despite numerous studies to the contrary, that the implanted microchip causes malignant tumor formation in laboratory animals. As more people are implanted with PositiveID’s implantable microchip, it is possible that these and other risks to health will manifest themselves. Actual or perceived risks to a person’s health associated with the microchip implantation process could constrain its sales of the VeriMed system or result in costly and expensive litigation. Further, the potential resultant negative publicity could damage its business reputation, leading to loss in sales of PositiveID’s other systems targeted at the healthcare market which would harm its business and negatively affect its prospects. If PositiveID is required to effect a recall of its implantable microchip, its reputation could be materially and adversely affected and the cost of any such recall could be substantial, which could adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. From time to time, implanted devices have become subject to recall due to safety, efficacy, product failures or other concerns. To date, PositiveID has not had to recall any of its implantable microchips. However, if, in the future, it is required to affect such a recall, the cost of the recall, and the likely related loss of system sales, could be substantial and could materially and adversely affect PositiveID’s results of operations and financial condition. In addition, any such recall could materially adversely affect its reputation and its ability to sell its systems that make use of the implantable microchip which would harm its business and negatively affect its prospects. Interruptions in access to, or the hacking into, PositiveID’s Health Link PHR or its VeriMed patient information database may have a negative impact on its revenue, damage its reputation and expose PositiveID to litigation. Reliable access to the Health Link PHR or the VeriMed patient information database is a key component of the functionality of those systems. Its ability to provide uninterrupted access to the database, whether operated by it or one or more third parties with whom PositiveID contracts, will depend on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of the server and network systems involved. Although certain elements of technological, power, communications, personnel and site redundancy are maintained, the databases may not be fully redundant. Further, the database may not function properly if certain necessary third-party systems fail, or if some other unforeseen act or natural disaster should occur. In the past, PositiveID has experienced short periods during which the database was inaccessible as a result of development work, system maintenance and power outages. Any disruption of the database services, computer systems or communications networks, or those of third parties that we rely on, could result in the inability of users to access the database for an indeterminate period of time. This, in turn, could cause PositiveID to lose the confidence of the healthcare community and persons who have undergone the microchip implant procedure, resulting in a loss of revenue and possible litigation. In addition, if the firewall software protecting the information contained in PositiveID’s database fails or someone is successful in hacking into the database, it could face damage to its business reputation and litigation. 22 Table of Contents Regulation of products and services that collect personally-identifiable information or otherwise monitor an individual’s activities may make the provision of PositiveID’s services more difficult or expensive and could jeopardize its growth prospects. Certain technologies that PositiveID currently, or may in the future, support are capable of collecting personally-identifiable information. A growing body of laws designed to protect the privacy of personally- identifiable information, as well as to protect against its misuse, and the judicial interpretations of such laws, may adversely affect the growth of PositiveID’s business. In the U.S., these laws include the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, or HIPAA, the Federal Trade Commission Act, the Electronic Communications Privacy Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, as well as various state laws and related regulations. Although PositiveID is not a covered entity under HIPAA, it has entered into agreements with certain covered entities in which it is considered to be a “business associate” under HIPAA. As a business associate, PositiveID is required to implement policies, procedures and reasonable and appropriate security measures to protect individually identifiable health information it receives from covered entities. PositiveID’s failure to protect health information received from customers could subject it to liability and adverse publicity, and could harm its business and impair its ability to attract new customers. In addition, certain governmental agencies, like the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and the Federal Trade Commission, have the authority to protect against the misuse of consumer information by targeting companies that collect, disseminate or maintain personal information in an unfair or deceptive manner. PositiveID is also subject to the laws of those foreign jurisdictions in which it operates, some of which currently have more protective privacy laws. If PositiveID fails to comply with applicable regulations in this area, its business and prospects could be harmed. Certain regulatory approvals generally must be obtained from the governments of the countries in which its foreign distributors sell its systems. However, any such approval may be subject to significant delays or may not be obtained. Any actions by regulatory agencies could materially and adversely affect PositiveID’s growth plans and the success of its business. If PositiveID fails to comply with anti-kickback and false claims laws, it could be subject to costly and time-consuming litigation and possible fines or other penalties. PositiveID is, or may become subject to, various federal and state laws designed to address healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. The federal anti-kickback statute prohibits the offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for referring items or services payable by Medicare, Medicaid or any other federally-funded healthcare program. This statute also prohibits remuneration in return for purchasing, leasing or ordering or arranging, or recommending the purchasing, leasing or ordering, of items or services payable by Medicare, Medicaid or any other federally-funded healthcare program. The anti-kickback laws of various states apply more broadly to prohibit remuneration in return for referrals of business payable by payers other than federal healthcare programs. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, for payment to third-party payers, including Medicare and Medicaid, which currently do not provide reimbursement for its microchip implant procedure, claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed, or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. PositiveID’s activities relating to the reporting of wholesale or estimated retail prices of its VeriMed system, the reporting of Medicaid rebate information, and other information affecting federal, state and third-party payment for the VeriMed system, if such payment becomes available, will be subject to scrutiny under these laws. The anti-kickback statute and other fraud and abuse laws are very broad in scope, and many of their provisions have not been uniformly or definitively interpreted by existing case law or regulations. Violations of the anti-kickback statute and other fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from federal healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, which currently do not provide reimbursement for our microchip implant procedure. PositiveID has not been challenged by a governmental authority under any of these laws and believes that its operations are in compliance with such laws. However, because of the far-reaching nature of these laws, it may be required to alter one or more of its practices to be in compliance with these laws. Healthcare fraud and abuse regulations are complex and even minor, inadvertent irregularities in submissions can potentially give rise to claims that the statute has been violated. If PositiveID is found to have violated these laws, or are charged with violating them, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer, and its management team could be required to dedicate significant time and resources addressing the actual or alleged violations. 23 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 