D. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below with all of the other information included in the annual report before deciding to invest in our Class B shares or our ADSs or our notes. If any of the following risks actually occur, they may materially harm our business and our financial condition and results of operations. As a result, the market price of our Class B shares or our ADSs or our notes could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Investors should carefully read this annual report in its entirety. They should also take into account and evaluate, among other things, their own financial circumstances, their investment goals, and the following risk factors. Risks relating to Argentina Argentina’s current growth and stabilization may not be sustainable During 2001 and 2002, Argentina went through a period of severe political, economic and social crisis. The economy has recovered significantly over the past six years, although the global economy faced a period of volatility during 2008. Uncertainty remains as to whether the current growth and relative stability is sustainable. The Argentine economy remains fragile in 2009, in part for the following reasons: • the availability of long-term fixed rate credit remains low; • investment as a percentage of GDP remains low; • the current fiscal surplus could become a fiscal deficit; • the current trade surplus could reverse into a trade deficit; • inflation has risen recently and threatens to accelerate; • the regulatory environment continues to be uncertain; • the country’s public debt remains high and international financing is limited; and • the recovery has depended to some extent on: (i) high commodity prices, which are volatile and outside the control of the country; and (ii) excess capacity, which has been reduced considerably. Substantially all our operations, properties and customers are located in Argentina. As a result, our business is to a very large extent dependent upon the economic conditions prevailing in Argentina. Inflation may rise again, causing adverse effects on the Argentine long-term credit markets as well as the Argentine economy generally The devaluation of the peso in January 2002, after several years of price stability, created pressures on the domestic price system that generated high inflation before substantially stabilizing in 2003. However, consumer prices almost doubled to 6.1% during 2004, increased to 12.3% in 2005, 9.8% in 2006, 8.5% in 2007 and were 7.2% in 2008. Uncertainty surrounding future inflation has slowed the rebound in the long-term credit market. In the past, inflation has materially undermined the Argentine economy and the government’s ability to create conditions that would permit growth. A return to a high inflation environment would also undermine Argentina’s foreign competitiveness by diluting the effects of the peso devaluation, with the same negative effects on the level of economic activity and employment. In addition, a return to high inflation would undermine the very fragile confidence in Argentina’s banking system in general, which would negatively and materially affect our business volumes and potentially preclude us from fully resuming lending activities. Argentina’s ability to obtain financing from international markets is limited, which may impair its ability to implement reforms and foster economic growth In the first half of 2005, Argentina restructured part of its sovereign debt that had been in default since the end of 2001. The Argentine government announced that as a result of the restructuring, it had approximately US$126.6 billion in total outstanding debt remaining. Of this amount, approximately US$19.5 billion are defaulted bonds owned by creditors who did not participate in the restructuring. 6 Table of Contents Some bondholders in the United States, Italy and Germany have filed legal actions against Argentina, and holdout creditors may initiate new suits in the future. Additionally, foreign shareholders of certain Argentine companies have filed claims in excess of US$17 billion before the International Center for the Settlement of Investment Disputes, or ICSID, alleging that certain government measures are inconsistent with the fair and equitable treatment standards set forth in various bilateral treaties to which Argentina is a party. In May 2005, the ICSID tribunal issued an opinion against Argentina in a case initiated by CMS Compañía Transportadora de Gas, which was appealed by Argentina. In October 2006, another ICSID tribunal issued a “decision on liability” against Argentina in a case initiated by LG&E Energy Corp., LG&E Capital Corp. and LG&E International Inc., which liability was recently fixed at US$57.40 million. The tribunal admitted that the Argentine government was not accountable for the consequences of measures taken during December 1, 2001 and April 26, 2003, given the general state of emergency in place at such time. In February 2007, the ICSID issued a judgment against Argentina in a case initiated by Siemens for US$208 million for indemnity in the failure to complete a contract in 2001 concerning identification documents. In subsequent actions, ICSID tribunals ordered Argentina to pay, in May 2007, US$106 million to Enron Corporation and Ponderosa Assets LP, shareholders of the local gas distributor Transportadora de Gas del Sur, in connection to tariff adjustments; in August 2007, US$105 million to Compañía de Aguas del Aconquija S.A. and Vivendi Universal in connection with the termination of the water concession agreement executed with such company for the Province of Tucumán; in September 2007, US$172 million to Sempra Energy International, due to the depreciation of its share holdings in Sodigas Pampeana y Sodigas Sur (shareholders in turn of the local concessionaries of the gas distribution service in Argentina, Camuzzi Gas Pampeana and Camuzzi Gas del Sur), as a consequence of the economic measures taken by the Argentine government in 2002; in December 2007, US$185 million to British Gas (shareholder of Argentine gas company Metrogas); in September 2008, the ICSID ordered Argentina to pay US$2.8 million to Continental Casualty Company, but recognized the state of emergency in place that justified taking extraordinary measures; and in November 2008, US$53.5 million to National Grid plc (shareholder of the Argentine electricity transportation company Transener). The Argentine government cancelled all of its pending debt with the IMF on January 3, 2006. However, Argentina’s past default and its failure to restructure its remaining sovereign debt completely and fully negotiate with the holdout creditors may prevent Argentina from re-entering the international capital markets. Litigation initiated by holdout creditors as well as ICSID claims may result in material judgments against the Argentine government and could result in attachments of or injunctions relating to assets of Argentina that the government intended for other uses. As a result, the government may not have the financial resources necessary to implement reforms and foster growth, which could have a material adverse effect on the country’s economy and, consequently, our business. Furthermore, Argentina’s inability to access the international capital markets in the medium and long term could have an adverse impact on our own ability to access international credit markets. On September 2, 2008, by means of Decree number 1,394/2008 Argentina announced its decision to pay its debt to its creditor nations members of the Paris Club. At the same time, by means of a press release issued on September 18, 2008, the Paris Club announced that it accepted Argentina’s decision. As of the date hereof, the amount of the debt to be paid and the terms of payment have not been defined. Argentina’s outstanding debt with the Paris Club is the result of the 2001-2002 financial crisis. Recent negotiations have been held with individual members of the group. The Paris Club includes creditors such as the United States of America and other members of the G8, all of them industrially-developed countries. Argentina’s outstanding debt with Germany, Japan and Spain represents almost 70% of the country’s total outstanding debt with the Paris Club. In addition, the Federal Government has received a proposal from Citibank, Barclays and Deutsche Bank in relation to Argentina’s exchange process with the aforementioned holdouts. The proposal sets forth the rescheduling of certain liabilities due between 2009 and 2012 (“guaranteed loans”). In a press conference held on October 16, 2008, the Head of the Cabinet of Ministers (Jefe de Gabinete) announced the execution of a letter of understanding with the aforementioned banks in order to implement the restructuring of the “guaranteed loans”. On February 2, 2009, by means of Joint Resolutions 8/2009 and 5/2009 of the Secretariat of Economy and the Secretariat of Finance of the National Ministry of Economy and Public Finances, launched the local tranche of the exchange of “guaranteed loans” for new bonds. The Federal Government announced that 97% of the holders had accepted such exchange proposal, representing Ps. 15.084 billion of an aggregate domestic tranche of the debt due in 2009, 2010 and 2011 for a total of Ps. 15.6 billion. The new bonds delivered under the exchange are due as from 2014. As of the date hereof, the Federal Government has not defined the terms and conditions of the expected exchange with the holdouts. Significant devaluation of the peso against the U.S. dollar may adversely affect the Argentine economy as well as our financial performance Despite the positive effects of the real depreciation of the peso on the competitiveness of certain sectors of the Argentine economy, it has also had a far-reaching negative impact on the Argentine economy and on businesses and individuals’ financial condition. The devaluation of the peso has had a negative impact on the ability of Argentine businesses to honor their foreign currency-denominated debt, led to very high inflation initially, significantly reduced real wages, had a negative impact on businesses whose success is dependent on domestic market demand, such as utilities and the financial industry, and adversely affected the government’s ability to honor its foreign debt obligations. If the peso devalues significantly, all of the negative effects on the Argentine economy related to such devaluation could recur, with adverse consequences to our business. 7 Table of Contents Significant appreciation of the peso against the U.S. dollar may adversely affect the Argentine economy A substantial increase in the value of the peso against the U.S. dollar also presents risks for the Argentine economy. The appreciation of the peso against the U.S. dollar negatively impacts the financial condition of entities whose foreign currency-denominated assets exceed their foreign currency-denominated liabilities. In addition, in the short term, a significant real appreciation of the peso would adversely affect exports. This could have a negative effect on GDP growth and employment as well as reduce the Argentine public sector’s revenues by reducing tax collection in real terms, given its current heavy reliance on taxes on exports. Government measures to preempt, or in response to, social unrest may adversely affect the Argentine economy Despite Argentina’s ongoing economic recovery and relative stabilization, the social and political tensions and high levels of poverty and unemployment continue. Future government policies to preempt, or in response to, social unrest may include expropriation, nationalization, forced renegotiation or modification of existing contracts, suspension of the enforcement of creditors’ rights, new taxation policies, including royalty and tax increases and retroactive tax claims and changes in laws and policies affecting foreign trade and investment. Such policies could destabilize the country and adversely and materially affect the economy, and thereby our business. Continuing protests by farmers could cause social unrest, influence Government measures and ultimately affect the Argentine economy During the last years the Argentine Government has been increasing and, in certain cases, imposing, exports tax on certain agricultural and manufactured products as an economic measure to prevent inflation and the increase in the prices of such products, and also to increase tax collections. In this line, during 2005 and 2006 a number of restrictions were imposed on the grain and oilseed markets that essentially limited trade access to exports, which resulted in a disparity in domestic and world prices. Consequently with these measures, in 2007, the Minister of Economy announced an increase in export taxes on, among others, crops, soybean, sunflower, corn and wheat products. In addition, in March 2008, President Cristina Fernández de Kirchner, established a sliding scale of export rates imposed on certain agricultural products by means of Ministry of Economy of Resolutions No. 125/08 and No. 64/08, which raised the general export tax on exports of soybean and soybean by-products on a varying scale depending on the official price of the ton of soybean, and up to a maximum export duty of approximately 52.7% depending on the price of a ton. This new sliding-scale mechanism could result in a rise of the applicable rate for grain and oilseed exports depending on international prices, as opposed to the fixed rate of 35% previously in place. Although Resolution No. 125/08 was ultimately annulled by Congress, it still had a socio-economic effect. The governmental measures ( which farmers claimed, in effect, set a maximum price for their crops) sparked protests by farmers whose exports have been the principal motor of Argentina’s economic recovery. As a reaction to these measures, farmers have started protests against the export tariff regime consisting in strikes, stops in their activities and suspension of sales both to the local and foreign markets, thereby causing social unrest, as well as food shortages and a surge in inflation. Continued social unrest, as well as future government policies in response to such protests, including new taxation and foreign trade policies, could destabilize the country and adversely and materially affect the economy, and thereby our business. Exchange controls and restrictions on transfers abroad and capital inflow restrictions have limited, and can be expected to continue to limit, the availability of international credit and may impair our ability to make payments on our obligations In 2001 and 2002, Argentina imposed exchange controls and transfer restrictions substantially limiting the ability of companies to retain foreign currency or make payments abroad. These restrictions have been substantially eased, including those requiring the Central Bank’s prior authorization for the transfer of funds abroad in order to pay principal and interest on debt obligations. However, Argentina may re-impose exchange control or transfer restrictions in the future, among other things, in response to capital flight or a significant depreciation of the peso. In addition, the government issued a decree in June 2005 that established new controls on capital inflows that could result in less availability of international credit. Additional controls could have a negative effect on the economy and our business if imposed in an economic environment where access to local capital is substantially constrained. Moreover, in such event, restrictions on the transfers of funds abroad may impede our ability to make dividend payments to ADS holders and payments on the notes. The Argentine economy could be adversely affected by economic developments in other global markets Financial and securities markets in Argentina are influenced, to varying degrees, by economic and market conditions in other global markets. Although economic conditions vary from country to country, investors’ perception of the events occurring in one country may substantially affect capital flows into and securities from issuers in other countries, including Argentina. The Argentine economy was adversely impacted by the political and economic events that occurred in several emerging economies in the 1990s, including Mexico in 1994, the collapse of several Asian economies between 1997 and 1998, the economic crisis in Russia in 1998 and the Brazilian devaluation in January 1999. In addition, Argentina continues to be affected by events in the economies of its major regional partners. Furthermore, the Argentine economy may be affected by events in developed economies, which are trading partners or that impact the global economy. 8 Table of Contents During 2008, Argentina was subject to strong internal and external economic uncertainty. The internal conflicts had their roots in the controversial export tax regime imposed by the government as well as the nationalization of private pension funds. Simultaneously, the global financial and economic conditions changed. The developed world shifted from a dynamic context to an economic system that was facing abrupt credit restriction in the US and European financial systems. The restrictions led to an economic contraction, which is probably the most serious since the worldwide depression in 1929. This sum of tensions affected the private, domestic and foreign expectations and could affect the bank’s business. The interruption of the capital flows entering the country, could affect the liquidity of the local financial system. Also, in response to this loss of confidence, depositors may turn their deposits into dollarized assets, running out from the financial system. An increase in dollarized assets outside the financial system could have an adverse effect on financial institutions, due to the decreased liquidity and diminished lending capacity it entails, as well as on the financial system as a whole, resulting in diminished liquidity with the ensuing decrease in spending, investments and deposits. The elimination of the Argentine Pension Funds could adversely affect the Argentine securities market On November 20, 2008, the Argentine government enacted Law No. 26,425, which was published in the Official Gazette on December 9, 2008. By means of this law, the private pension funds system was eliminated and the then existing pension funds were united to form a unique Integrated Pensions Fund System (Sistema Integrado Previsional Argentino or “SIPA”), to be financed by means of a common distribution system that shall guarantee the affiliates and beneficiaries of the private pension funds system the same coverage and treatment as the public retirement funds system. In this sense, the private pension funds system was eliminated to give way to the SIPA, pursuant to the terms of the aforementioned law. The elimination of the private pension funds system could have a considerable adverse effect on the Argentine securities market and its liquidity because, since their creation, the private pension funds have played a predominant role in the securities markets. A decrease in activity in the securities market could, in turn, have an adverse effect on the Argentine economy as a whole. Increased uncertainty due to the upcoming parliamentary elections could have an adverse effect on the Argentine economy National parliamentary elections are scheduled to take place on June 28, 2009. There is a general uncertainty as to who will win the elections and what impact the outcome could produce on President Fernández de Kirchner’s administration. The aforementioned uncertainty, the probable outcomes of the parliamentary elections and the measures taken in its aftermath could have an adverse effect on financial institutions and the Argentine economy as a whole. Risks Relating to the Argentine Financial System The health of Argentina’s financial system depends on a return of the long-term credit market, which is currently recovering at a relatively slow pace As a result of the 2001 and 2002 crisis, the volume of financial intermediation activity in Argentina fell drastically: credit fell from 23.1% of GDP in March 2001 to just 7.7% in June 2004, while deposits as a percentage of GDP fell from 31.5% to 23.2% during the same period. During this period our financial intermediation activities also declined. The depth of the crisis and the effect of the crisis on depositors’ confidence in the financial system created significant uncertainties as to the likelihood that the financial system would fully recover its ability to act as an intermediary between savings and credit. Despite the ongoing recovery of Argentina’s short-term credit market (68% of loan growth in 2005, 58% of loan growth in 2006, 53% of loan growth in 2007, and 39% of loan growth in 2008 was in the form of overdrafts, consumer loans and advances), long-term lending has recovered more slowly. If longer-term financial intermediation activity fails to resume at substantial levels, the ability of financial institutions, including us, to generate profits will be negatively affected. Even though deposits in the financial system and with us grew in mid-2002, most of these new deposits are either sight or very short-term time deposits, creating a liquidity risk for banks engaged in long-term lending and increasing their need to depend on the Central Bank as a potential liquidity backstop. The health of the financial system depends upon the ability of financial institutions, including us, to retain the confidence of depositors, after having overcome the 2001 crisis Total deposits of the financial system grew 23% in 2007 and 20% in 2008, reaching an year average of Ps. 191,653 and Ps. 229,089 million respectively. Total deposits in terms of GDP had recovered since the crisis, with levels around 23% during the last three years. Although short-term deposits have substantially recovered since 2002, the deposit base of the Argentine financial system, including ours, may be affected in the future by adverse economic, social and political events. If depositors once again withdraw significant holdings from banks, there will be a substantial negative impact on the manner in which financial institutions, including us, conduct their business and on their ability to operate as financial intermediaries. International loss of confidence in the financial institutions may also affect sensibility of Argentine depositors. The asset quality of financial institutions, including us, is still related to the exposure to public sector debt Although it has been reduced during the last three years, financial institutions, including us, have a significant portfolio of bonds of, and loans to, the Argentine federal and provincial governments. Exposure to public sector of the financial system was 42% in 2005, 33% in 2006, 27% in 2007 and 24% in 2008. To a large extent, the value of the assets held by Argentine banks, as well as their income generation capacity, is dependent on the Argentine public sector’s creditworthiness, which is in turn dependent on the government’s ability to promote sustainable economic growth in the long run, generate tax revenues and control public spending. As of December 31, 2008, our net exposure to the public sector, not including LEBACs (Letras del Banco Central) and NOBACs (Notas del Banco Central), totaled approximately Ps.1,012.7 million, representing 4.5% of our total assets. 9 Table of Contents Our asset quality and that of other financial institutions may deteriorate if the Argentine private sector is affected by the international financial crisis The capacity of many Argentine private sector debtors to repay their loans deteriorated significantly as a result of the international economic crisis, materially affecting the asset quality of financial institutions, including us. We established large allowances for loan losses in 2008 to cover the risks inherent to our portfolio of loans to the private sector. The quality of our loan portfolio has been improving from 2003 levels as a result of high GDP growth and a better overall economic environment. However, the current improvement may not continue, and we will likely not succeed in recovering substantial portions of loans that were written off. Our business strategy includes substituting a large portion of our current portfolio of government securities for loans to the private sector. As a result, we expect that our credit risk exposure to the private sector will increase in the near term. If the recovery of the financial health of Argentina’s private sector reverses, we may experience an increase in our incidence of non-performing loans. Our business may be vulnerable to the current disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets as well as to government action intended to alleviate the effects of the current financial crisis Since August 2007, the global financial system has experienced difficult credit and liquidity conditions and disruptions leading to greater volatility. In September 2008, global financial markets deteriorated sharply following the bankruptcy filing by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. In the days that followed, it became apparent that a number of other major foreign financial institutions, including some of the largest global commercial banks, investment banks, mortgage lenders, mortgage guarantors and insurance companies, were experiencing significant difficulties. In recent months, there have been runs on deposits at several foreign financial institutions in the countries most affected by the financial crisis and numerous institutions have sought additional capital. Central banks around the world have coordinated efforts to increase liquidity in the financial markets by taking measures such as increasing the amounts they lend directly to financial institutions, lowering interest rates and significantly increasing temporary reciprocal currency arrangements. In an attempt to prevent the failure of the financial system, the United States and European governments have intervened on an unprecedented scale. Despite the extent of the above-mentioned intervention, global investor confidence remains low and credit remains relatively lacking. In addition, the world’s largest developed economies are widely considered to be in the midst of, or about to enter, economic recessions. Continued or worsening disruption and volatility in the global financial markets could have a material adverse effect on the Argentine financial market. To date, the Argentine financial system has not required an intervention by the Argentine government or assistance from the Central Bank, but we cannot guarantee such an intervention might not occur nor its possible extent. Inflation control, regulation of financial markets and any response by the Argentine government to the current global economic crisis may have an effect on the macroeconomic situation of the country, and a material effect on our future results of operations. In particular, our results of operations are sensitive to changes in the Ps./US$ exchange rate because our primary assets and revenues are denominated in pesos while 20% of our total assets and liabilities are denominated in foreign currencies. Limitations on enforcement of creditors’ rights in Argentina may adversely affect financial institutions To protect debtors affected by the economic crisis, beginning in 2002 the Argentine government adopted measures that temporarily suspended proceedings to enforce creditors’ rights, including mortgage foreclosures and bankruptcy petitions. Most of these measures have been rescinded; however, in May 2003 and until December 2006, the Argentine government suspended mortgage foreclosure proceedings and established a special proceeding to replace ordinary trials for the enforcement of some mortgage loans. Such special proceedings give creditors ten days to inform the debtor the amounts owed to them and thereafter agree with the debtor on the amount and terms of payment. In case of failure to reach an agreement by the parties, payment conditions will be set forth by a judge. We cannot assure you that in an adverse economic environment the government will not adopt additional measures in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on the financial system and our business. Risks Relating to Us Our target market may be the most adversely affected by economic recessions Our business strategy is to increase fee income and loan origination in our target market, low- and middle-income individuals and small and medium-sized businesses. The current economic situation favors this target market and it is experiencing solid growth. However, this target market is particularly vulnerable to economic recessions and, in the event of such a recession, growth in our target market may slow and consequently adversely affect our business. The Argentine economy as a whole and our target market has not stabilized enough for us to be certain that demand will continue to grow. Therefore, we cannot assure you that our business strategy will in fact be successful. Our controlling shareholders have the ability to direct our business and their interests could conflict with yours Our controlling shareholders beneficially own 10,475,023 Class A shares and 234,454,130 Class B shares. Although there currently is no formal agreement among them, together our controlling shareholders control virtually all decisions with respect to our company made by shareholders. They may, without the concurrence of the remaining shareholders, elect a majority of our directors, effect or prevent a merger, sale of assets or other business acquisition or disposition, cause us to issue additional equity securities, effect a related party transaction and determine the timing and amounts of dividends, if any. Their interests may conflict with your interests as a holder of class B shares, ADSs or notes, and they may take actions that might be desirable to the controlling shareholders but not to other shareholders or holders of our notes. 10 Table of Contents We will continue to consider acquisition opportunities, which may not be successful We have expanded our business primarily through acquisitions. We will continue to consider attractive acquisition opportunities that we believe offer additional value and are consistent with our business strategy. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or that we will be able to acquire promising target financial institutions on favorable terms. Additionally, our ability to obtain the desired effects of such acquisitions will depend in part on our ability to successfully complete the integration of those businesses. The integration of acquired businesses entails significant risks, including: • unforeseen difficulties in integrating operations and systems; • problems assimilating or retaining the employees of acquired businesses; • challenges retaining customers of acquired businesses; • unexpected liabilities or contingencies relating to the acquired businesses; and • the possibility that management may be distracted from day-to-day business concerns by integration activities and related problem solving. We depend on key personnel for our current and future performance Our current and future performance depends to a significant degree on the continued contributions of our senior management team and other key personnel, in particular Jorge Horacio Brito and Delfín Jorge Ezequiel Carballo. Our performance could be significantly harmed if we lose their services. Should their services no longer be available to us, we may not be able to locate or employ qualified replacements on acceptable terms. Increased competition and consolidation in the banking industry may adversely affect our operations We expect trends of increased competition in the banking sector, as banks continue to recover from the recent economic crisis. Additionally, if the trend towards decreasing spreads is not offset by increases in lending volumes, then resulting losses could lead to consolidation in the industry. We expect trends of increased consolidation to continue. Consolidation can result in the creation of larger and stronger banks, which may have greater resources than we do. We expect that competition with respect to small and medium-sized businesses is likely to increase. As a result, even if the demand for financial products and services from these markets continues to grow, competition may adversely affect our results of operations by decreasing the net margins we are able to generate. Reduced spreads without corresponding increases in lending volumes could adversely affect our profitability The spread for Argentina’s financial system between the interest rates on loans and deposits decreased from a high of 39.9% in March 2003 to 17.3% in December 2008 as a result of increased competition in the banking sector and the government’s tightening of monetary policy in response to inflation concerns. In comparison, our interest rate spread decreased from 42% to 6.8% during the same period. We and other financial institutions have largely responded by lowering operating costs. However, if the spreads continue to decrease without a corresponding increase in lending or additional cost-cutting, our profitability may be adversely affected. Differences in the accounting standards between Argentina and certain countries with highly developed capital markets, such as the United States, may make it difficult to compare our financial statements and reported earnings with companies in other countries and the United States Publicly available corporate information about us in Argentina is different from and may be more difficult to obtain than the information available for registered public companies in certain countries with highly developed capital markets, such as the United States. Except as otherwise described herein, we prepare our financial statements in accordance with Central Bank Rules, which differ in certain significant respects from U.S. GAAP and, to a certain extent, from Argentine GAAP. As a result, our financial statements and reported earnings are not directly comparable to those of banks in the United States. Risks relating to our Class B Shares and the ADSs Holders of our Class B shares and the ADSs may not receive any dividends In 2003, the Central Bank prohibited financial institutions from distributing dividends. In 2004, the Central Bank amended the restriction to require the Central Bank’s prior authorization for the distribution of dividends. On July 20, 2004, we were authorized by the Central Bank to distribute dividends corresponding to fiscal year 2003, on April 18, 2005 to distribute dividends corresponding to fiscal year 2004, on April 21, 2006 to distribute dividends corresponding to fiscal year 2005, on April 16, 2007 to distribute dividends corresponding to fiscal year 2006 and on April 11, 2008 to distribute dividends corresponding to fiscal year 2007. In each case the dividends were distributed. On May 12, 2009, the Regular and Special General Shareholders’ Meeting of Banco Macro S.A. approved the distribution of cash dividends for an amount of up to Ps. 149.9 million, which is still subject of Central Bank’s authorization. Nevertheless, no assurance can be given that the Central Bank will continue to grant us the authorization to distribute dividends approved by our shareholders at the annual ordinary shareholders’ meeting or that such authorization shall be for the full amount of approved dividends. 11 Table of Contents Holders of our Class B shares and the ADSs located in the United States may not be able to exercise preemptive rights Under Argentine corporate law, if we issue new shares as part of a capital increase, our shareholders may have the right to subscribe to a proportional number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage. Rights to subscribe for shares in these circumstances are known as preemptive rights. In addition, shareholders are entitled to the right to subscribe for the unsubscribed shares remaining at the end of a preemptive rights offering on a pro rata basis, known as accretion rights. Upon the occurrence of any future increase in our capital stock, United States holders of Class B shares or ADSs will not be able to exercise the preemptive and related accretion rights for such Class B shares or ADSs unless a registration statement under the Securities Act is effective with respect to such Class B shares or ADSs or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We are not obligated to file a registration statement with respect to those Class B shares or ADSs. We cannot assure you that we will file such a registration statement or that an exemption from registration will be available. Unless those Class B shares or ADSs are registered or an exemption from registration applies, a U.S. holder of our Class B shares or ADSs may receive only the net proceeds from those preemptive rights and accretion rights if those rights can be sold by the depositary; if they cannot be sold, they will be allowed to lapse. Furthermore, the equity interest of holders of Class B shares or ADSs located in the United States may be diluted proportionately upon future capital increases. Non-Argentine companies that own our Class B shares directly and not as ADSs may not be able to exercise their rights as shareholders unless they are registered in Argentina Under Argentine law, foreign companies that own shares in an Argentine corporation are required to register with the Inspección General de Justicia, or Superintendency of Legal Entities, or IGJ, in order to exercise certain shareholder rights, including voting rights. If you own Class B shares directly (rather than in the form of ADSs) and you are a non-Argentine company and you fail to register with IGJ, your ability to exercise your rights as a holder of our Class B shares may be limited. You may not be able to sell your ADSs at the time or the price you desire because an active or liquid market may not develop Prior to March 24, 2006, there has not been a public market for the ADSs or, in the case of our Class B shares, a market outside of Argentina. We cannot assure you as to the liquidity of any markets that may develop for our Class B shares or for the ADSs or the price at which the Class B shares or the ADSs may be sold. The relative volatility and illiquidity of the Argentine securities markets may substantially limit your ability to sell Class B shares underlying the ADSs at the price and time you desire Investing in securities that trade in emerging markets, such as Argentina, often involves greater risk than investing in securities of issuers in the United States, and such investments are generally considered to be more speculative in nature. The Argentine securities market is substantially smaller, less liquid, more concentrated and can be more volatile than major securities markets in the United States, and is not as highly regulated or supervised as some of these other markets. There is also significantly greater concentration in the Argentine securities market than in major securities markets in the United States. The ten largest companies in terms of market capitalization represented approximately 84% of the aggregate market capitalization of the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange as of December 31, 2008. Accordingly, although you are entitled to withdraw the Class B shares underlying the ADSs from the depositary at any time, your ability to sell such shares at a price and time at which you wish to do so may be substantially limited. Furthermore, new capital controls imposed by the Central Bank could have the effect of further impairing the liquidity of the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange by making it unattractive for non-Argentines to buy shares in the secondary market in Argentina. Our shareholders may be subject to liability for certain votes of their securities Our shareholders are not liable for our obligations. Instead, shareholders are generally liable only for the payment of the shares they subscribe. However, shareholders who have a conflict of interest with us and who do not abstain from voting may be held liable for damages to us, but only if the transaction would not have been approved without such shareholders’ votes. Furthermore, shareholders who willfully or negligently vote in favor of a resolution that is subsequently declared void by a court as contrary to Argentine corporate law or our bylaws may be held jointly and severally liable for damages to us or to other third parties, including other shareholders. Our Class B shares or the ADSs might be characterized as stock in a “passive foreign investment company” for U.S. federal income tax purposes The application of the “passive foreign investment company” rules to equity interests in banks such as us is unclear under current U.S. federal income tax law. It is therefore possible that our Class B shares or the ADSs could be characterized as stock in a “passive foreign investment company” for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which could have adverse tax consequences to U.S. holders in some circumstances. In particular, U.S. holders of our Class B shares or the ADSs generally would be subject to special rules and adverse tax consequences with respect to certain distributions made by us and on any gain recognized on the sale or other disposition of our Class B shares or the ADSs. Such U.S. holders might be subject to a greater U.S. tax liability than might otherwise apply and incur tax on amounts in advance of when U.S. federal income tax would otherwise be imposed. A U.S. holder of our Class B shares or the ADSs might be able to avoid these rules and consequences by making an election to mark such shares to market (although it is not clear if this election is available for the Class B shares). U.S. holders should carefully read “Taxation—Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—Passive Foreign Investment Companies” and consult their tax advisors regarding the “passive foreign investment company” rules. 12 Table of Contents Risks relating to our Notes The notes are effectively subordinated to our secured creditors and our depositors Unless otherwise specified, the notes rank at least pari passu in right of payment with all of our existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness, other than obligations preferred by statute or by operation of law, including, without limitation, tax and labor-related claims and our obligations to depositors. In particular, under the Financial Institutions Law, all of our existing and future depositors will have a general priority right over holders of notes issued under our medium-term note program. The Financial Institutions Law provides that in the event of judicial liquidation or insolvency, all depositors would have priority over all of our other creditors (including holders of notes), except certain labor creditors and secured creditors. Moreover, depositors would have priority over all other creditors, with the exception of certain labor creditors, to funds held by the Argentine Central Bank (Banco Central de la República Argentina or the “Central Bank”) as reserves, any other funds at the time of any revocation of our banking license and proceeds from any mandatory transfer of our assets by the Central Bank. We may also issue subordinated notes. In that case, in addition to the priority of certain other creditors described in the preceding paragraphs, subordinated notes will also rank at all times junior in right of payment to certain of our unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. Exchange controls and restrictions on transfers abroad may impair your ability to receive payments on the notes In 2001 and 2002, Argentina imposed exchange controls and transfer restrictions, substantially limiting the ability of companies to retain foreign currency or make payments abroad. These restrictions have been substantially eased, including those requiring the Central Bank’s prior authorization for the transfer of funds abroad in order to pay principal and interest on debt obligations. However, Argentina may re-impose exchange controls and transfer restrictions in the future, among other things, in response to capital flight or a significant depreciation of the peso. In such event, your ability to receive payments on the notes may be impaired. The notes under our medium-term note program will be subject to transfer restrictions which could limit your ability to resell your notes New issuances of notes will be offered in reliance on an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act. As a result, the notes may be transferred or resold only in transactions that are registered under the Securities Act or on the basis of an exemption from such registration and in compliance with any other applicable securities laws of other jurisdictions. These restrictions could impair your ability to resell notes you purchase. We may redeem the notes prior to maturity The notes are redeemable at our option in the event of certain changes in Argentine taxes and, if so specified, the notes may also be redeemable at our option for any other reason. We may choose to redeem those notes at times when prevailing interest rates may be relatively low. Accordingly, an investor may not be able to reinvest the redemption proceeds in a comparable security at an effective interest rate as high as that of the notes. As a financial institution, any bankruptcy proceeding against us would be subject to intervention by the Central Bank, which may limit remedies otherwise available and extend the duration of proceedings If we are unable to pay our debts as they come due, the Central Bank would typically intervene by appointing a reviewer, request us to file a reorganization plan, transfer certain of our assets and liabilities and possibly revoke our banking license and file a liquidation petition before a local court. Upon any such intervention, noteholders’ remedies may be restricted and the claims and interests of our depositors and other creditors may be prioritized over those of noteholders. As a result, the noteholders may realize substantially less on their claims than they would in a bankruptcy proceeding in Argentina, the United States or any other country. Holders of notes may find it difficult to enforce civil liabilities against us or our directors, officers and controlling persons We are organized under the laws of Argentina and our principal place of business (domicilio social) is in the City of Buenos Aires, Argentina. Most of our directors, officers and controlling persons reside outside the United States. In addition, all or a substantial portion of our assets and their assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for holders of notes to effect service of process within the United States on such persons or to enforce judgments against them, including any action based on civil liabilities under the U.S. federal securities laws. Based on the opinion of our Argentine counsel, there is doubt as to the enforceability against such persons in Argentina, whether in original actions or in actions to enforce judgments of U.S. courts, of liabilities based solely on the U.S. federal securities laws. 13 Table of Contents Risk relating to our 9.75% Fixed/Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Junior Subordinated Bonds Due 2036 (the “2036 Notes”) Interest on the Notes may be limited to the extent we do not have sufficient Distributable Amounts No interest on the 2036 Notes will be due and payable in the event that the payment of such interest, together with any other payments or distributions (other than payments in respect of redemptions or repurchases) on or in respect of our Parity Obligations (including the Notes) previously made or scheduled to be made during the Distribution Period in which such Interest Payment Date falls, would exceed our Distributable Amounts for such Distribution Period. Interest payments on the Notes are non-cumulative such that if an interest payment is not made in full as a result of the limitation described in the preceding sentence, such unpaid interest will not accrue or be due and payable at any time and, accordingly, holders of 2036 Notes will not have any claim thereon, whether or not interest is paid with respect to any other interest period. The Distributable Amounts available for payment of interest on the 2036 Notes on an interest payment date is based principally on our unappropriated retained earnings from the prior year. Subject to certain limited exceptions, Argentine law does not restrict our shareholders from approving the payment of dividends to themselves out of our unappropriated retained earnings, and the indenture relating to the Notes will not restrict our ability to pay dividends unless and until interest on the Notes has not been paid in full as scheduled. In addition, Distributable Amounts available for payment of interest on the 2036 Notes depends on the amount of payments or other distributions on or in respect of our Parity Obligations previously made or schedule to be made during the relevant Distribution Period. Although we do not currently have any Parity Obligations outstanding, the indenture relating to the Notes will not restrict our ability to issue Parity Obligations in the future. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient Distributable Amounts to make interest payments on the 2036 Notes. We may be prevented by the Central Bank or Argentine banking regulations from making interest or other payments on or in respect of the Notes No interest on the 2036 Notes will be due and payable on an Interest Payment Date in the event that we would be prevented from paying interest on the Notes on such Interest Payment Date as a result of (X) a general prohibition by the Central Bank on paying interest or making other payments or distributions on or in respect of our Parity Obligations (including the Notes) or (Y) as provided in Communications “A” 4589 and “A” 4591 of the Central Bank or any successor regulations thereto, (a) we are subject to a liquidation procedure or the mandatory transfer of our assets by the Central Bank in accordance with Sections 34 or 35 bis of the Financial Institutions Law or successors thereto; (b) we are receiving financial assistance from the Central Bank (except liquidity assistance under the pesification rules pursuant to Decree No. 739/2003); (c) we are not in compliance with or have failed to comply on a timely basis with our reporting obligations to the Central Bank; or (d) we are not in compliance with minimum capital requirements (both on an individual and consolidated basis) or with minimum cash reserves (on average). As a result of the 2001 Argentine crisis, all banks were prohibited by the Central Bank from paying dividends in 2002 and 2003. As the economy recovered, the Central Bank eased the prohibition but still required prior authorization for the distribution of dividends by banks in 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008. Although the prohibition is no longer in effect, we cannot assure you that, if confronted with a similar crisis, the Central Bank will not prevent banks from making interest payments on Parity Obligations, including the 2036 Notes. The Notes are unsecured and subordinated and, in the event of our bankruptcy, the Notes will rank junior to our unsubordinated obligations and certain of our subordinated obligations The 2036 Notes constitute our unsecured and subordinated obligations. In the event of our bankruptcy, the 2036 Notes will rank junior to all claims of our unsubordinated creditors and certain of our subordinated creditors. By reason of the subordination of the Notes, in the case of our bankruptcy, although the Notes would become immediately due and payable at their principal amount together with accrued interest thereon, our assets would be available to pay such amounts only after all such creditors have been paid in full. We expect to incur from time to time additional obligations that rank senior to the Notes, and the indenture relating to the Notes does not prohibit or limit the incurrence of such obligations. Under Argentine law, our obligations under the 2036 Notes will also be subordinated to certain statutory preferences such as tax and labor-related claims and our obligations to depositors. In particular, under the Financial Institutions Law, all of our existing and future depositors will have a general priority right over holders of Notes. The Financial Institutions Law provides that in the event of our bankruptcy or insolvency, all depositors would have priority over all of our other creditors (including holders of Notes), except certain labor creditors and secured creditors. Moreover, depositors would have priority over all other creditors, with the exception of certain labor creditors, to funds held by the Central Bank as reserves, any other funds at the time of any revocation of our banking license and proceeds from any mandatory transfer of our assets by the Central Bank. If we do not satisfy our obligations under the 2036 Notes, your remedies will be limited Payment of principal on the 2036 Notes may be accelerated only in certain events involving our bankruptcy. There is no right of acceleration in the case of a default in the performance of any of our covenants, including a default in the payment of principal, premium or interest. 14 Table of Contents The ratings of the Notes may be lowered or withdrawn depending on various factors, including the rating agency’s assessment of our financial strength and Argentine sovereign risk By the end of 2008, the Notes were rated “B2” by Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. and “B” by Fitch Ratings Ltd. At the local level, Moody’s Latin America rated the Notes “Aa3.ar” and Fitch Argentina rated the Notes “AA (arg).” The ratings of the Notes reflect the relevant rating agency’s assessment of our ability to make timely payment of principal and interest on the Notes. Moreover, the methods of assigning ratings used by Argentine rating agencies may differ in important aspects from those used by the rating agencies in the United States or other countries. The ratings on the 2036 Notes are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold the Notes, and the ratings do not comment on market prices or suitability for a particular investor. We cannot assure you that the ratings of the 2036 Notes will remain for any given period of time or that the ratings will not be lowered or withdrawn. A downgrade in ratings will not be an event of default with respect to the 2036 Notes. The assigned ratings may be raised or lowered depending, among other things, on the rating agency’s assessment of our financial strength as well as its assessment of Argentine sovereign risk generally, and any change to these may affect the market price or liquidity of the 2036 Notes. The U.S. federal income tax treatment of the 2036 Notes is unclear Because of certain features of the 2036 Notes, the U.S. federal income tax treatment applicable to the 2036 Notes is uncertain. While we do not intend to treat the 2036 Notes as subject to the “contingent payment debt instrument” rules under U.S. federal income tax regulations, it is possible that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) could assert such treatment. If this assertion were successful, U.S. Holders (as defined in “Taxation—Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations”) generally would be required to include interest income on a constant yield basis at a rate that could differ from, and could at certain times be in excess of, the stated interest on the 2036 Notes. In addition, any gain on the sale of 2036 Notes derived by a U.S. holder would be treated as ordinary income rather than capital gain. It is also possible that the IRS could assert that the 2036 Notes should be treated as equity for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If this assertion were successful, U.S. holders could also be subject to adverse tax rules (including an interest charge on and ordinary income treatment of any gain derived with respect to the notes) if it were also determined that we are a “passive foreign investment company” for U.S. federal income tax purposes. While we do not believe that we are currently a passive foreign investment company, the test for determining “passive foreign investment company” status is a factual one based upon a periodic evaluation of our assets and income and is unclear when applied to banking businesses such as our own. Thus we cannot provide any assurance that we will not be determined to be a “passive foreign investment company” as of the issuance of the 2036 Notes or in any future period. Risks relating to our 10.750% Argentine Peso-Linked Notes Due 2012 (the “2012 Notes”) A devaluation of the Argentine peso will result in a loss of principal and interest in U.S. dollar terms, which could affect our 2012 Notes Payments of principal, interest, additional amounts and any other amounts in respect of the notes are determined based on the Argentine peso equivalent (based on an initial exchange rate of Ps. 3.0794 = US$1.00) of the aggregate principal amount of the notes then outstanding and converted into U.S. dollars based on an exchange rate on the second business day prior the applicable payment date. As a result, a devaluation of the Argentine peso will result in a loss of principal and a reduction in the effective interest rate in U.S. dollar terms. In circumstances where we can satisfy our payment obligations in respect of the 2012 Notes by transferring Argentine pesos to accounts located in Argentina, you may not be able to obtain U.S. dollars or transfer funds outside Argentina If we are unable either to purchase U.S. dollars or to transfer funds outside Argentina in order to make a payment in respect of the notes, because of any legal or regulatory restriction or due to any other reason beyond our control, then we will be able to satisfy such payment obligation in Argentine pesos and with transfers to accounts located in Argentina. In such event, you may not be able to obtain U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rate under the notes or at all, and you may not be able to freely transfer funds outside Argentina. Certain definitions “Parity Obligations” means (i) all claims in respect of our obligations, or our guarantees of liabilities, that are eligible to be computed as part of our Tier 1 capital under Argentine banking regulations (without taking into account any limitation placed on the amount of such capital); and (ii) all claims in respect of any of our other obligations (including guarantees) that rank, or are expressed to rank, pari passu with the 2036 Notes. “Distribution Period” means, with respect to an Interest Payment Date, the period from and including the date of our annual ordinary shareholders’ meeting immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date to but excluding the date of our annual ordinary shareholders’ meeting immediately following such Interest Payment Date. In the event that we will not pay interest on the 2036 Notes in full as a result of the limitation described above, we will, promptly after our knowledge thereof and in any case no later than five Business Days prior to the relevant Interest Payment Date, notify the holders of the Notes and deliver an officers’ certificate to the Trustee to that effect. Interest payments are non-cumulative such that if an interest payment is not made in full as a result of the limitation described above, the unpaid interest will not accrue or be due and payable at any time and, accordingly, holders of the 2036 Notes will not have any claim thereon, whether or not interest is paid in respect of any other interest period. 15 Table of Contents “Distributable Amounts” for a Distribution Period means the aggregate amount, as set out in our audited financial statements for our fiscal year immediately preceding the beginning of such Distribution Period, prepared in accordance with Central Bank Rules and approved by our shareholders, of our unappropriated retained earnings minus: (i) required legal and statutory reserves; (ii) asset valuation adjustments as determined and notified by the Superintendency of Financial Institutions, whether or not agreed to by us, and the asset valuation adjustments indicated by our external auditor, in each case to the extent not recorded in such financial statements; and (iii) any amounts resulting from loan loss or other asset valuation allowances permitted by the Superintendency of Financial Institutions including adjustments arising from the failure to put into effect an agreed upon compliance plan. For the avoidance of doubt, the calculation of Distributable Amounts in respect of a particular Distribution Period shall be made prior to the appropriation or allocation of any amounts to any voluntary or contingent reserves and any dividends or distributions on any Junior Obligations or Parity Obligations during such Distribution Period. 