RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Operations Our revenues are highly dependent on levels of passenger and cargo traffic volumes and air traffic, which depend in part on factors beyond our control. Our revenues are closely linked to passenger and cargo traffic volumes and the number of air traffic movements at our airports. These factors directly determine our revenues from aeronautical services and indirectly determine our revenues from non-aeronautical services. Passenger and cargo traffic volumes and air traffic movements depend in part on many factors beyond our control, including economic conditions in Mexico and the United States, the political situation in Mexico and elsewhere in the world, the attractiveness of our airports relative to that of other competing airports, fluctuations in petroleum prices (which can have a negative impact on traffic as a result of fuel surcharges or other measures adopted by airlines in response to increased fuel costs) and changes in regulatory policies applicable to the aviation industry. Any decreases in air traffic to or from our airports as a result of factors such as these could adversely affect our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. Our business could be adversely affected by a downturn in the U.S. economy. In 2007, 95.8% of the international passengers served by our airports arrived or departed on flights originating in or departing to the United States. Thus, our business is dependent on the condition of the U.S. economy, and is particularly influenced by trends in the United States relating to leisure travel, consumer spending and international tourism. Events and conditions affecting the U.S. economy may adversely affect our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. The U.S. economy has recently experienced and continues to experience an economic slowdown that may negatively affect our results of operations. If this slowdown becomes a prolonged economic crisis, it will likely have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The events of September 11, 2001 resulted in a significant decline in passenger traffic worldwide and future terrorist attacks could result in similar declines. The terrorist attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001 had a severe adverse impact on the air travel industry, particularly on U.S. carriers and on carriers operating international services to and from the United States. Airline traffic in the United States fell precipitously after the attacks. Our terminal passenger volumes declined 1.4% in 2001 and an additional 5.3% in 2002 (in each case as compared to the prior year). Any future terrorist attacks, whether or not involving aircraft, will likely adversely affect our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. 7 Table of Contents Security enhancements following the events of September 11, 2001 have resulted in increased costs, and future security enhancements could further increase our costs and reduce our operating margins. The air travel business is susceptible to, and has experienced increased costs resulting from enhanced security and higher insurance and fuel costs. Following the events of September 11, 2001, we reinforced security at our airports. While enhanced security at our airports has not resulted in a significant increase in our operating costs to date, we may be required to adopt additional security measures in the future. In addition, our general liability insurance premiums for 2002 and 2003 increased substantially relative to our 2001 premiums and may continue to rise in the future. In 2004, our aggregate insurance cost was more than double our aggregate insurance cost for 2001. Since August 1, 2003, we have carried a Ps. 500 million insurance policy covering damages to our property resulting from terrorist acts. Since January 2003, we have carried an insurance policy covering personal and property damages to third parties resulting from terrorist acts. The coverage provided by this policy was initially U.S.$ 10 million, but was increased to U.S.$ 150 million in 2007. Because our insurance policies do not cover all losses and liabilities resulting from war or from terrorism, we could incur significant costs if we were to be directly affected by events of this nature. Any such increase in our operating costs would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The users of airports, principally airlines, have been subject to increased costs since the events of September 11, 2001. Airlines have been required to adopt additional security measures and may be required to comply with more rigorous security rules or guidelines in the future. Premiums for aviation insurance have increased substantially and could escalate further. While governments in other countries have agreed to indemnify airlines for liabilities they might incur resulting from terrorist attacks, the Mexican government has given no indication of any intention to do so. In addition, fuel prices and supplies, which constitute a significant cost for airlines using our airports, may be subject to increases resulting from any future terrorist attacks, a general increase in international hostilities or a reduction in output of fuel, voluntary or otherwise, by oil-producing countries. Such increases in airlines’ costs have in the past resulted in higher airline ticket prices and decreased demand for air travel generally, thereby having an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. In addition, because a substantial majority of our international flights involve travel to the United States, we may be required to comply with security directives of the U.S. Federal Aviation Authority, in addition to the directives of Mexican aviation authorities. In 2005, the Mexican government issued a policy letter (carta de política) calling for all checked baggage on international commercial flights beginning in January 2006, and on domestic commercial flights beginning in July 2006, to undergo a new comprehensive screening process. Because of uncertainty over the policy letter’s implementation, the new screening process has been delayed. In particular, the policy letter does not specify which parties should bear responsibility for the new screening process. Although the Mexican Airport Law specifies that airlines bear the responsibility for baggage screening, the fact that the policy letter is silent as to responsibility has caused some of our airline customers to contend that the policy letter’s intent is for airport concessionaires, such as us, to bear responsibility for the new screening process. In addition, certain questions have been raised regarding the constitutionality of the new screening process. The Mexican Bureau of Civil Aviation is expected to issue regulations 8 Table of Contents implementing the policy letter, but these may not address the questions of responsibility and constitutionality that have been raised. We maintain that the new policy will not be implemented at our airports until we enter into a written agreement with our airline customers regarding the allocation of cost and responsibility. The new process is expected to require the installation of new screening equipment and that baggage be checked manually if the equipment signals the potential presence of prohibited items. If we are required to purchase, install and operate the new screening equipment, this could increase our exposure to liability. We could be required to undertake significant capital expenditures to purchase the equipment and incur ongoing expenses to maintain the equipment we have purchased, which could restrict our liquidity and adversely affect our results of operations. International events could have a negative impact on international air travel. Historically, a substantial majority of our revenues has been derived from aeronautical services, and our principal source of aeronautical services revenues is passenger charges. Passenger charges are payable for each passenger (other than diplomats, infants and transfer and transit passengers) departing from the airport terminals we operate, and are collected by the airlines and paid to us. In 2005, 2006 and 2007, passenger charges represented 65.4%, 65.1%, and 67.2%, respectively, of our total revenues. Events such as the war in Iraq and public health crises such as the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, crisis in 2003 have negatively affected the frequency and pattern of air travel worldwide. Because our revenues are largely dependent on the level of passenger traffic in our airports, any general increase of hostilities relating to reprisals against terrorist organizations, further conflict in the Middle East, outbreaks of health epidemics such as SARS or other events of general international concern (and any related economic impact of such events) could result in decreased passenger traffic and increased costs to the air travel industry and, as a result, could cause a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. Our revenues and profitability may not increase if we fail in our business strategy. Our ability to increase our revenues and profitability depends in part on our business strategy, which consists of setting prices in order to be as close as possible to our regulatory maximum rates for any given year, reducing operating costs, increasing passenger and cargo traffic at our airports and increasing revenues from commercial activities. Our ability to increase our commercial revenues is significantly dependent, among other factors, upon increasing passenger traffic at our airports and our ability to renegotiate rental agreements with our tenants to provide for contractual terms more favorable to us. Our ability to increase revenues from commercial activities is also dependent on our ability to continue the remodeling and modernization of the commercial areas we operate within our airports. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in implementing our strategy of increasing our passenger traffic or our revenues from commercial activities. The passenger traffic volume in our airports depends on factors beyond our control, such as the attractiveness of the commercial, industrial and tourist centers that the airports serve. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the passenger traffic volume in our airports will increase or that our profitability will increase. 9 Table of Contents A claim against us by a construction company relating to work at the Guadalajara airport could have a negative resolution. In August 2005, we entered into a construction contract with Grupo de Ingeniería Universal, S.A. de C.V., or GIUSA, for the development of a new segment of the Guadalajara International Airport’s apron. GIUSA delayed the project and we therefore executed the performance bond posted by GIUSA in an amount equal to 20% of the total contract value. However, we were not able to obtain such execution because, in September 2006, GIUSA initiated legal proceedings against us, claiming breach of contract by us and seeking the full contract amount and additional damages, together totaling Ps. 43 million. During 2007, we obtained a favorable sentence in first instance, which was appealed by GIUSA. As of the date of our consolidated financial statements, the resolution of this appeal is still pending. Competition from other tourist destinations could adversely affect our business. The principal factor affecting our results of operations and business is the number of passengers using our airports. The number of passengers using our airports (particularly our Los Cabos International Airport and our Puerto Vallarta International Airport) may vary as a result of factors beyond our control, including the level of tourism in Mexico. In addition, our passenger traffic volume may be adversely affected by the attractiveness, affordability and accessibility of competing tourist destinations in Mexico, such as Cancún and Acapulco, or elsewhere, such as Puerto Rico, Florida, Cuba, Jamaica, the Dominican Republic and other Caribbean islands and destinations in Central America. The attractiveness of the destinations we serve is also likely to be affected by perceptions of travelers as to the safety and political and social stability of Mexico. There can be no assurance that tourism levels, and therefore the number of passengers using our airports, in the future will match or exceed current levels, the failure of which could directly and indirectly affect our revenues from aeronautical and non-aeronautical services, respectively. Our business is highly dependent upon revenues from four of our airports and could be adversely impacted by any condition affecting those airports. In 2007, approximately 78.3% of our revenues were generated from four of our 12 airports. The following table lists the percentage of total revenues generated at our airports in that year: Airport For year endedDecember 31, 2007 Guadalajara International Airport 33.4 % Tijuana International Airport 13.7 Puerto Vallarta International Airport 15.2 Los Cabos International Airport 16.0 Eight other airports 21.7 Total 100.0 % 10 Table of Contents As a result of the substantial contribution to our revenues from these four airports, any event or condition affecting these airports could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. If a change in relations with our labor force should occur, such a change could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Although we currently believe we maintain good relations with our labor force, if any conflicts with our employees were to arise in the future, including with our unionized employees (which accounted for 52.5% of our total employees at December 31, 2007), resulting events such as strikes or other disruptions that could arise with respect to our workforce could have a negative impact on our results of operations. The loss of one or more of our key customers could result in a loss of a significant amount of our revenues. Consorcio Aeroméxico, S.A. de C.V., or Consorcio Aeroméxico (controlled by the Mexican government until October 2007), is a holding company that owns Aeroméxico, one of the principal domestic airlines operating at our airports. Of the total revenues generated at our airports in 2007, Aeroméxico and Aeroméxico Connect (formerly Aerolitoral and also owned by Consorcio Aeroméxico) together accounted for 15.31%, while Grupo Mexicana (composed of Mexicana de Aviación and Click Mexicana), which until December 2005 was owned by the government, and which is now owned by Grupo Posadas S.A. de C.V., represented 12.01%. None of our contracts with our airline customers obligate them to continue providing service to our airports, and we can offer no assurance that, if any of our key customers reduced their use of our airports, competing airlines would add flights to their schedules to replace any flights no longer handled by our principal airline customers. During 2007, Banamex acquired both Aeroméxico and Aeroméxico Connect. We can offer no assurance that these airlines will operate independently in the future or that they will continue to use any of our airports. Decisions made by Banamex with respect to its ownership interest in its airlines could also affect the operations and business of Aeroméxico and Aeroméxico Connect and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not continue to generate comparable levels of our revenues from our key customers. In 2007, the passenger charges that we invoiced to airlines were generally collected, on a weighted average basis, approximately 78 to 88 days following the invoice delivery date. The actual term for payment generally is dependent upon interest rates on short-term Mexican treasury bills, or Cetes, with longer payment periods during periods of lower interest rates (within a defined range). Our revenues from passenger charges are not secured by a bond or any other collateral. Thus, in the event of insolvency of any airline, as occurred in 2003 in the case of Líneas Aéreas Allegro S.A. de C.V., we would not be assured of collecting any amounts invoiced to that airline in respect of passenger charges, which could negatively affect our cash flows from operations. 11 Table of Contents The principal domestic airlines operating at our airports have in the past refused to pay certain increases in our specific prices for aeronautical services and could refuse to pay additional increases in the future. From 2000 to mid-2003, the principal domestic airlines operating at our 12 airports—Aeroméxico, Mexicana, Aeromar and Aeroméxico Connect—refused to pay certain increases in the specific prices we charge for aeronautical services. On August 31, 2003 (the date on which the balance reached its peak), the amount of invoiced fees subject to dispute was Ps. 47.0 million. As part of this dispute, these airlines brought proceedings challenging the privatization of the Mexican airport sector and the methodology for calculating the maximum rate system applicable under the privatization of all of the airport groups in Mexico. On July 15, 2003, we entered into an agreement with the National Air Transportation Chamber of Commerce (Cámara Nacional de Aerotransportes) and the Ministry of Communications and Transportation pursuant to which we resolved existing disputes with our principal airline customers and established specific prices for aeronautical services applicable to those airlines for 2003 and 2004 and a methodology for retroactively applying those prices from 2000, since these airlines had refused to pay certain of our charges since that year. In March 2005, we entered into a renewal agreement with the National Air Transportation Chamber of Commerce for 2005 and 2006. The National Air Transportation Chamber of Commerce agreed to cause our principal airline customers to enter into (a) contracts governing charges for aeronautical services, (b) lease contracts for property used by the airlines and (c) contracts governing collection of passenger charges. As of December 31, 2005, these airlines had entered into agreements with us such that proceedings against us were either resolved or dismissed and no fees remained subject to further dispute. These agreements represented (a) virtually all of the relevant contracts governing the collection of passenger charges, (b) a substantial majority of the agreements for the leasing of space in our terminals and (c) a substantial majority of the contracts governing our aeronautical services, in each case in terms of the total number agreements to be entered into. In December 2006, we entered into a renewal agreement with the National Air Transportation Chamber of Commerce for 2007, 2008 and 2009, covering the same aspects as the prior agreement as well as incorporating an increase in passenger charges. This renewal agreement is more focused on the support and development of, and increased frequencies on, new routes. Because these airlines contribute a majority of our revenues, should the airlines refuse to make payment pursuant to the agreements described above, or should they refuse to pay increases in our charges for aeronautical services in future years, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. The operations of our airports may be disrupted due to the actions of third parties, which are beyond our control. As is the case with most airports, the operation of our airports is largely dependent on the services of third parties, such as air traffic control authorities and airlines. We are also dependent upon the Mexican government or entities of the government for provision of services, such as electricity, supply of fuel to aircraft, air traffic control and immigration and customs services for our international passengers. We are not responsible for and cannot control the 12 Table of Contents services provided by these parties. Any disruption in, or adverse consequence resulting from, their services, including a work stoppage or other similar event, may have a material adverse effect on the operation of our airports and on our results of operations. In addition, we are dependent on third-party providers of certain complementary services such as catering and baggage handling. If these service providers were to halt operations at any of our airports, we would be required to seek a new service provider or provide services ourselves, either of which would likely result in increased capital expenditures or costs and have an adverse impact on our cash generation and results of operations. Actions by the former holders of land comprising Tijuana International Airport may limit our ability to expand the airport and may disrupt its operations. A portion of the land comprising Tijuana International Airport was expropriated by the Mexican government in 1970 pursuant to its power of eminent domain. Prior to its expropriation, the land had been held by a group of individuals through a system of communal ownership of rural land known as an ejido. The former ejido participants have asserted claims against the Mexican government challenging the 1970 expropriation decree. Our Tijuana airport subsidiary is a party to the proceedings, but only as an interested third party. A judgment in favor of the former ejido participants could materially disrupt the airport’s current operations. The terms of our concession require the Mexican government to provide restitution to us for any loss of our use of the land subject to our concessions. Certain of the former ejido participants are currently occupying portions of the real property on which we operate Tijuana International Airport that are not currently essential to the airport’s operations. Although these persons are not currently interfering with the airport’s operations, their presence could limit our ability to expand the airport into the areas they currently occupy. In addition, there can be no assurance that the former ejido participants will not seek to disrupt the airport’s operations if their legal claims against the Mexican government are not resolved to their satisfaction. The actions of squatters on certain portions of the land on which our Guadalajara International Airport operates could disrupt operations and security at that airport. The Mexican government owns the land on which the Guadalajara International Airport operates and has granted us the right to use that land for the purpose of operating the airport pursuant to our concession. Currently, there are squatters residing on or claiming rights to a portion of the property, at least one of whom has attempted to subdivide and sell off certain portions of the property. As owner of the property, the Mexican government must initiate any actions directed at removing these persons from the property. We are reviewing the actions these persons have taken and are cooperating with the Mexican government to ensure that the actions of these squatters do not adversely affect the operations of the Guadalajara International Airport. However, if the Mexican government or we are unable to successfully remove these persons from the property, their presence could have an adverse impact on our operations and security at the airport and could restrict our ability to expand our operations at the airport. 13 Table of Contents High incidences of crime in Mexico, and drug trafficking in particular, could adversely affect our business. A recent Travel Alert issued by the U.S. Department of State (Bureau of Consular Affairs) on April 14, 2008 provides information for U.S. citizens on security issues in Mexico. According to such report, violent criminal activity fueled by a war between criminal organizations struggling for control of the lucrative narcotics trade continues along the U.S.-Mexico border. Although attacks are aimed primarily at members of drug trafficking organizations and Mexican police forces, foreign visitors and residents, including U.S. citizens, have been among the victims of homicides and kidnappings in the border region. Violence by criminal elements affects many parts of the country, both urban and rural, including border areas. Though there is no evidence that U.S. citizens are specifically targeted, Mexican and foreign bystanders have been injured or killed in some violent attacks, demonstrating the heightened risk in public places. Higher incidences of crime throughout Mexico, and drug trafficking in particular, could have an adverse affect on our business as it may decrease the passenger traffic directed to Mexico from abroad. In addition, our operations could be affected to the extent that it is necessary for us to increase security surveillance and other measures in our airports to combat crime, including drug trafficking. Natural disasters could adversely affect our business. From time to time, the Pacific and central regions of Mexico experience torrential rains and hurricanes (particularly during the months of July through September), as well as earthquakes. The most recent natural events that affected our airports were two hurricanes in August and September of 2003 that resulted in temporary closures and property damages at our Los Cabos International Airport and our La Paz International Airport. In addition, the Manzanillo International Airport experienced an earthquake in 2003, which caused significant damage to the airport and required the airport to be closed for several hours. Natural disasters may impede operations, damage infrastructure necessary to our operations or adversely affect the destinations served by our airports. In 2006 and 2007, Los Cabos International Airport and La Paz International Airport were closed for several hours as a result of Hurricanes John, Lane and Henriette but experienced no significant damages. Any of these events could reduce our passenger traffic volume. The occurrence of natural disasters in the destinations we serve could adversely affect our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. We have insured the physical facilities at our airports against damage caused by natural disasters, accidents or other similar events, but do not have insurance covering losses due to resulting business interruption. Moreover, should losses occur, there can be no assurance that losses caused by damages to the physical facilities would not exceed the pre-established limits on any of our insurance policies. Risks Related to the Regulation of Our Business We cannot predict how the regulations governing our business will be applied. Many of the laws, regulations and instruments that regulate our business were adopted or became effective in 1999, and there is only a limited history that would allow us to predict the impact of these legal requirements on our future operations. In addition, although Mexican law establishes ranges of sanctions that might be imposed should we fail to comply with the terms of one of our concessions, the Mexican Airport Law (Ley de Aeropuertos) and its regulations or other applicable law, we cannot predict the sanctions that are likely to be assessed for a given violation within these ranges. We cannot assure you that we will not encounter difficulties in complying with these laws, regulations and instruments. 14 Table of Contents Moreover, when determining our maximum rates for the next five-year period (from 2010 to 2014), the Ministry of Communications and Transportations may be pressured significantly by different entities (such as, for example, the Mexican Competition Commission and the carriers operating at our airports) to try to impose rates that reduce our profitability. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the laws and regulations governing our business, including the rate-setting process and the Mexican Airport Law, will not change in the future or be applied or interpreted in a way that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We provide a public service regulated by the Mexican government and our flexibility in managing our aeronautical activities is limited by the regulatory environment in which we operate. Our aeronautical fees charged to airlines and passengers are regulated, like those of most airports in other countries. In 2005, 2006 and 2007, approximately 81.5%, 81.4% and 80.9%, respectively, of our total revenues were earned from aeronautical services, which are subject to price regulation under our maximum rates. These regulations may limit our flexibility in operating our aeronautical activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. In addition, several of the regulations applicable to our operations that affect our profitability are authorized (as in the case of our master development programs) or established (as in the case of our maximum rates) by the Ministry of Communications and Transportation for five-year terms. Except under limited circumstances, we generally do not have the unilateral ability to change our obligations (such as the investment obligations under our master development programs or the obligation under our concessions to provide a public service) or increase our maximum rates applicable under those regulations should our passenger traffic or other assumptions on which the regulations were based change during the applicable term. In addition, there can be no assurance that this price regulation system will not be amended in a manner that would cause additional sources of our revenues to be regulated. The price regulatory system applicable to our airports imposes maximum rates for each airport. The price regulatory system does not guarantee that our consolidated results of operations, or that the results of operations of any airport, will be profitable. The system of price regulation applicable to our airports establishes an annual maximum rate for each airport, which is the maximum annual amount of revenues per work load unit (which is equal to one passenger or 100 kilograms (220 pounds) of cargo) that we may earn at that airport from services subject to price regulation. The maximum rates for our airports have been determined for each year through December 31, 2009. For a discussion of the framework for establishing our maximum rates and the application of these rates, see “