Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2011, and information we provide in our press releases, telephonic reports and other investor communications, may contain forward-looking statements with respect to anticipated future events and our projected financial performance, operations and competitive position that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements and our expectations. Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact revenue, profitability, and growth remain difficult to predict. The factors underlying our forecasts forward-looking statements are dynamic and subject to change. As a result, any forecasts or forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are given and do not necessarily reflect our outlook at any other point in time. Risks Relating to Our Business We will need additional capital in the future to fund the growth of our business, and financing may not be available. Our currently available capital resources and cash flows from operations may be insufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements. Our cash requirements will depend on numerous factors, including the rate of growth of our sales, the timing and levels of products purchased, pricing, payment terms and credit limits from manufacturers, the availability and terms of asset-based credit facilities, the timing and level of our accounts receivable collections, and our ability to manage our business profitability. We expect to need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings or enter into new asset-based or other credit facilities, but such financings may dilute our stockholders. We cannot assure you that any additional financing that we may need will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. In addition, in February 2012 we announced the execution of a term sheet to pursue a business combination with CBD. This event may diminish our access to additional financing. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to take advantage of business opportunities, develop new products or otherwise respond to competitive pressures. In any such case, our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. If the U.S. Government imposes tariffs on solar panels manufactured in China, it will cause the prices we pay for solar panels to increase, and could cause customer demand for our products to decrease. A group of solar panel manufacturers with domestic U.S. production facilities is seeking to have the U.S. Government impose tariffs on the import of solar panels manufactured in China, based on allegations of unfair competition and of subsidization of prices for Chinese-made solar panels by the Chinese Government. Proceedings are underway at the United States Commerce Department. The timing for a determination on whether to impose tariffs is uncertain, and it has been repeatedly postponed, but it may come as early as March 2012. It is uncertain whether tariffs will be imposed, and if so how much, but tariff rates of 50% to 250% have been suggested. If imposed, tariffs may be retroactive by up to 90 days before the decision date, as well as prospective. Given the large current market share of solar panels manufactured in China, any imposition of significant tariffs would have far reaching, industry-wide effects, and could be disruptive to many established supply relationships. The imposition of such tariffs would likely cause prices for solar power systems in the United States to increase, possibly significantly, and result in reduced market demand for the purchase of solar power systems. The uncertainty created by concern over potential tariffs is already having a negative effect on our ability to sell products and to forecast our sales. Our current solar panel suppliers, Suntech and Lightway, both manufacture panels for us in China. If the solar panels provided by our suppliers are subjected to a tariff, that will result in an increase in our cost of goods and in the price we must charge to our customers. The price increase could potentially be significant. If our product prices increase, it would harm our competitive position in selling our products, and could adversely affect our results of operations. We have experienced significant customer concentration in recent periods, and our revenue levels could be adversely affected if any significant customer fails to purchase products from us at anticipated levels. The relative magnitude and the mix of revenue from our largest customers have varied significantly quarter to quarter, but have been concentrated on a small number of large customers. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 two customers have accounted for a significant portion of our revenues: Lennar Corporation (Lennar), a leading national homebuilder, and Lennox International Inc. (Lennox), a global leader in the heating and air conditioning markets. As of February 29, 2012, Lennar had ordered solar power systems from us for installation on 233 new homes, which was below the 600 home order commitment volume. The volume of orders from key customers is difficult to predict. Fluctuations in order levels from significant customers could cause our revenue levels to correspondingly fluctuate, and the failure by any significant customer to maintain anticipated order levels could cause our revenue to fall short of expectations and adversely affect our results of operations. We may fail to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of our shift to a design and manufacturing business model in California and throughout North America, which may adversely affect the value of our common stock. The success of our exit from the solar system installation business in California in September 2010, and our shift to focus exclusively on a design and manufacturing business model will depend, in large part, on our ability to successfully expand our distribution channels to include authorized dealers in California, as well as elsewhere in North America, and to accelerate the growth of our design and manufacturing business. California is the largest state in the country for solar products, accounting for approximately 50 percent of the U.S. market, and we are only beginning to develop distribution channel partners in California. If we are not able to achieve the expansion of our design and manufacturing business and meet our revenue growth and cost reduction objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of our change in strategic focus and our restructuring may not be realized or may take longer to realize than expected, and the value of our common stock may be adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents Specifically, risks in the operations of our business in order to realize the anticipated benefits of the change to a design and manufacturing business model include, among other things: ·  failure to arrange for cost competitive manufacturing of our proprietary solar panels; · ·  failure to find and develop distribution relationships with new channel partners, particularly in the California market; · ·  failure to successfully manage existing distribution relationships; ·  the loss of key employees critical to the ongoing operation of our business; ·  failure to effectively coordinate sales and marketing efforts to communicate the capabilities of our company; ·  unpredictability and delays in the timing of projected distribution orders, and resulting accumulation of excess product inventory; ·  failure to focus and develop our distribution product and service offerings quickly and effectively; ·  failure to successfully develop new products and services on a timely basis that address the market opportunities; and ·  unexpected revenue attrition or delays. In addition, the shift in our business model may result in additional or unforeseen expenses, and the anticipated cost reduction benefits may not be realized. We are dependent upon our key suppliers for the components used in our systems and we must arrange for cost competitive manufacturing of our proprietary solar panels in order to grow our business; our suppliers are dependent upon the continued availability and pricing of silicon and other raw materials used in solar modules. Historically, we obtained virtually all of our solar panels from Suntech. On March 25, 2011, we entered into a volume supply agreement for a new generation of our solar panel products with Light Way Green New Energy Ltd. (Lightway), and in August 2011, we began purchasing solar panels from Lightway. Both Suntech and Lightway manufacture panels for us that are built to our unique specifications. We currently purchase all of the microinverters used in our AC solar panels from Enphase. We believe that our commercial relationship with each of these suppliers is good. Although we had a significant amount of inventory on hand as of December 31, 2011, and although we believe we could find alternative suppliers for solar panels manufactured to our specifications, and alternative suppliers for microinverters, on comparable terms, the sudden loss of any of our current primary component supply relationships could cause a delay in manufacturing and be disruptive to our operations. It is critical to the growth of our revenue that our products be high quality while offered at competitive pricing. We believe that we will need to reduce the unit production cost of our products over time to obtain and maintain our ability to offer competitively priced products. Our ability to achieve cost reductions will depend on our ability to maintain favorable supplier contracts and to increase sales volumes so we can achieve economies of scale. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to achieve any such production cost reductions. If we fail to negotiate better terms and maintain our relationships with our current suppliers or develop new supplier relationships, we may not achieve production cost reductions necessary to competitively price our products, which could adversely affect or limit our sales and growth. We are currently subject to market prices for the components that we purchase, which are subject to fluctuation. We cannot ensure that the prices charged by our suppliers will not increase because of changes in market conditions or other factors beyond our control. An increase in the price of components used in our systems could result in an increase in costs to our customers and could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and demand for our products. Our suppliers are dependent upon the availability and pricing of silicon, one of the main materials used in manufacturing solar panels. In the past, the world market for solar panels experienced a shortage of supply due to insufficient availability of silicon. This shortage caused the prices for solar modules to increase. Interruptions in our ability to procure needed components for our systems, whether due to discontinuance by our suppliers, delays or failures in delivery, shortages caused by inadequate production capacity or unavailability, financial failure, manufacturing quality, or for other reasons, would adversely affect or limit our sales and growth. There is no assurance that we will continue to find qualified manufacturers on acceptable terms and, if we do, there can be no assurance that product quality will continue to be acceptable, which could lead to a loss of sales and revenues. We are exposed to risks associated with the weak global economy, which increase the uncertainty of project financing for solar installations and the risk of non-payment from customers. The continuing tight credit markets and weak global economy are contributing to an ongoing slowdown in the solar industry, which may worsen if these economic conditions are prolonged or deteriorate further. The market for installation of solar power systems depends largely on commercial and consumer capital spending. Economic uncertainty exacerbates negative trends in these areas of spending, and may cause customers to push out, cancel, or refrain from placing orders, which may reduce our net sales. Difficulties in obtaining capital and adverse market conditions may also lead to the inability of some customers to obtain affordable financing, including traditional project financing and tax-incentive based financing and home equity based financing, resulting in lower sales to potential customers with liquidity issues, and may lead to an increase of incidents where our customers are unwilling or unable to pay for systems they purchase, and additional bad debt expense for us. Further, these conditions and uncertainty about future economic conditions make it challenging for us to obtain equity and debt financing to meet our working capital requirements to support our business, forecast our operating results, make business decisions, and identify the risks that may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from the difficult macroeconomic environment, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents Our technology may encounter unexpected problems or may not be protectable, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our technology is relatively new and has not been tested in installation settings for a sufficient period of time to prove its long-term effectiveness and benefits. Problems may occur with products or their underlying components that are unexpected and could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. We have been issued several U.S. and foreign patents that cover key claims of our Andalay solar panel technology, and we are asserting claims of infringement of our patent rights in a lawsuit and in an action before the International Trade Commission. Lawsuits and re-examination proceedings in the United States or elsewhere could challenge the scope or enforceability of our patent claims. We have several other pending patent applications covering Andalay technology. Ultimately, we may not be able to realize the benefits from any patent that is issued. Because our industry is highly competitive and has low barriers to entry, we may lose market share to larger companies that are better equipped to weather a decline in market conditions due to increased competition. Our industry is highly competitive and fragmented, is subject to rapid change and has low barriers to entry. Competition in the solar power services industry may increase in the future, partly due to low barriers to entry, as well as from other alternative energy sources now in existence or developed in the future. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share and greater competition for qualified technical personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. If we are unable to compete effectively, or if competition results in a deterioration of market conditions, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. Our profitability depends, in part, on our success and brand recognition and we could lose our competitive advantage if we are not able to protect our trademarks and patents against infringement, and any related litigation could be time-consuming and costly. We believe that the “Westinghouse” name has significant value and recognition in the North American market, and that our “Andalay” brand has gained substantial recognition by customers in certain geographic areas. We have registered the “Andalay” trademark with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Use of our trademarks or similar trademarks by competitors in geographic areas in which we have not yet operated could adversely affect our ability to use or gain protection for our brand in those markets, which could weaken our brand and harm our business and competitive position. In addition, any litigation relating to protecting our trademarks and patents against infringement could be time consuming and costly. We may have warranty obligations to Real Goods Solar, Inc. that could adversely affect our results of operations. In connection with our exit from the solar system installation business in California, Real Goods Solar, Inc. (Real Goods) agreed to undertake primary, “first responder” responsibility for future warranty service obligations relating to the approximately 800 installations for SunRun that we have previously completed (the “WS Installations”). We retain secondary warranty responsibility on the WS Installations, in the event that Real Goods fails to perform the warranty. We will reimburse Real Goods for actual warranty service work completed by Real Goods related to these “first responder” installations. Other than solar panels and inverters that are covered under the manufacturer warranty, we provided our customers for WS Installations a 5-year or a 10-year warranty. We have accrued, and included within “Liabilities of Discontinued Operations” in our consolidated balance sheets for December 31, 2011 and 2010, a liability of approximately $1.1 million and $1.2 million, respectively, to cover these warranty obligations. That amount is intended to cover both the WS Installations and certain installation projects assigned to Real Goods. The terms of the Warranty Agreements provided that we establish an escrow account as a source of funds from which to satisfy our obligation to pay Real Goods for its fees and reimburse it for its expenses for warranty work performed by it pursuant to the Warranty Agreements which are not paid to Real Goods from the company directly. In March 2011, we entered into an Escrow Agreement with Real Goods and deposited $200,000 into an escrow fund. The amount is reflected in long-term assets of discontinued operations in our consolidated balance sheets. The escrow deposit will be released to us in the amount of $40,000, or one-fifth of the remaining escrow funds, per year after each of the fifth through the ninth anniversary of the escrow agreement. If Real Goods fails to perform under the assigned warranty coverage, or the actual warranty expenses exceed the amounts we have accrued, we could incur significant unexpected additional expenses, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Impairment charges could reduce our results of operations. In accordance with the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standard Codification (ASC) 350, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (ASC 350), we test intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for impairment on an annual basis, and on an interim basis if an event occurs that might reduce the fair value of the reporting unit below its carrying value. We also assess the fair value of our inventory and other tangible assets as of the end of each reporting period. As a result of our exit from the installation business, we impaired approximately $2.0 million for inventory, equipment and other assets no longer needed in our business. We may determine that further asset impairment charges are needed in the future. Although any such impairment charge would be a non-cash expense, further impairment of our tangible or intangible assets could materially increase our expenses and reduce our results of operations. 12 Table of Contents The success of our business depends on the continuing contributions of Barry Cinnamon and other key personnel who may terminate their employment with us at any time, and we will need to hire additional qualified personnel. We rely heavily on the services of Barry Cinnamon, our Chief Executive Officer, as well as several other management personnel. Loss of the services of any such individuals would adversely impact our operations. In addition, we believe our technical personnel represent a significant asset and provide us with a competitive advantage over many of our competitors and that our future success will depend upon our ability to retain these key employees and our ability to attract and retain other skilled financial, engineering, technical and managerial personnel. None of our key personnel are party to any employment agreements with us and management and other employees may voluntarily terminate their employment at any time. We do not currently maintain any “key man” life insurance with respect to any of such individuals. If we are unable to attract, train and retain highly qualified personnel, the quality of our services may decline and we may not successfully execute our internal growth strategies. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to continue to attract, train, motivate and retain highly skilled and experienced employees, including technical personnel. Qualified technical employees periodically are in great demand and may be unavailable in the time frame required to satisfy our customers’ requirements. While we currently have available technical expertise sufficient for the requirements of our business, expansion of our business could require us to employ additional highly skilled technical personnel. We expect competition for such personnel to increase as the market for solar power systems expands. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain sufficient numbers of highly skilled technical employees in the future. The loss of personnel or our inability to hire or retain sufficient personnel at competitive rates of compensation could impair our ability to secure and complete customer engagements and could harm our business. Unexpected warranty expenses or service claims could reduce our profits. We maintain a warranty reserve on our balance sheet for potential warranty or service claims that could occur in the future. This reserve is adjusted based on our ongoing operating experience with equipment and installations. It is possible, perhaps due to bad supplier material or defective installations, that we would have actual expenses substantially in excess of the reserves we maintain. Our failure to accurately predict future warranty claims could result in unexpected profit volatility. Risks Relating to Our Industry We have experienced technological changes in our industry. New technologies may prove inappropriate and result in liability to us or may not gain market acceptance by our customers. The solar power industry (and the alternative energy industry, in general) is subject to technological change. Our future success will depend on our ability to appropriately respond to changing technologies and changes in function of products and quality. If we adopt products and technologies that are not attractive to consumers, we may not be successful in capturing or retaining a significant share of our market. In addition, some new technologies are relatively untested and unperfected and may not perform as expected or as desired, in which event our adoption of such products or technologies may cause us to lose money. A drop in the retail price of conventional energy or non-solar alternative energy sources may negatively impact our profitability. We believe that an end customer’s decision to purchase or install solar power capabilities is primarily driven by the cost and return on investment resulting from solar power systems. Fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the prices of conventional and non-solar alternative energy sources, such as decreases in the prices of oil and other fossil fuels, could cause the demand for solar power systems to decline, which would have a negative impact on our profitability. Changes in utility electric rates or net metering policies could also have a negative effect on our business. Existing regulations, and changes to such regulations, may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of solar power products, which may significantly reduce demand for our products and services. New government regulations or utility policies pertaining to solar power systems are unpredictable and may result in significant additional expenses or delays and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for solar energy systems and our services. For example, there currently exist metering caps in certain jurisdictions which effectively limit the aggregate amount of power that may be sold by solar power generators into the power grid. 13 Table of Contents Our business depends on the availability of rebates, tax credits and other financial incentives; reduction, elimination or uncertainty of which would reduce the demand for our products and services. Many states offer incentives to offset the cost of solar power systems. These systems can take many forms, including direct rebates, state tax credits, system performance payments and Renewable Energy Credits (RECs). Moreover, the federal government currently offers a 30% tax credit for the installation of solar power systems. Businesses may also elect to accelerate the depreciation on their system over five years. Uncertainty about the introduction of, reduction in or elimination of such incentives or delays or interruptions in the implementation of favorable federal or state laws could substantially increase the cost of our systems to our customers, resulting in significant reductions in demand for our services, which would negatively impact our sales. If solar power technology is not suitable for widespread adoption or sufficient demand for solar power products does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipate, our sales would decline and we would be unable to achieve or sustain profitability. The market for solar power products is emerging and rapidly evolving, and its future success is uncertain. Many factors will influence the widespread adoption of solar power technology and demand for solar power products, including: · cost effectiveness of solar power technologies as compared with conventional and non-solar alternative energy technologies; · performance and reliability of solar power products as compared with conventional and non-solar alternative energy products; · capital expenditures by customers that tend to decrease if the U.S. economy slows; and · availability of government subsidies and incentives. If solar power technology proves unsuitable for widespread commercial deployment or if demand for solar power products fails to develop sufficiently, we would be unable to generate enough revenue to achieve and sustain profitability. In addition, demand for solar power products in the markets and geographic regions we target may not develop or may develop more slowly than we anticipate. Risks Relating to our Common Stock If our shareholder’s equity again falls below $2.5 million or if the trading price of our common stock remains below $1 per share or we fail to satisfy any other listing criteria, our common stock could be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. We must meet NASDAQ’s continuing listing requirements in order for our common stock to remain listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. The listing criteria we must meet include, but are not limited to, a minimum bid price for our common stock of $1.00 per share and a minimum shareholders’ equity of $2.5 million. On July 13, 2011, we received a written notification (the “Staff Determination”) from the Listing Qualifications Department of The NASDAQ Stock Market stating that our common stock was subject to delisting from The NASDAQ Stock Market because our stockholders’ equity was less than $2.5 million as required by the listing rules. On August 25, 2011, we had a hearing before The NASDAQ Hearings Panel (the “Panel”) to review the Staff Determination. At the hearing, we presented a plan to regain compliance, and requested that the Panel allow us additional time within which to regain compliance. On September 27, 2011, we received a letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market notifying us that the Panel granted our request for our common stock to remain listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market, subject to the certain conditions, including imposition of a Panel Monitor and requirements that we provide updated forecast information and stockholders’ equity projections. Most recently, we submitted updated information in early January, and subsequently received a further letter that we had met the immediate requirements of the Panel’s decision, but are subject to ongoing imposition of a Panel Monitor until January 9, 2013, with an obligation to notify the Panel if our stockholders’ equity falls below $2.5 million or we fail to secure needed additional financing, or we fail to satisfy any other listing requirement. In order to comply with the terms of the Panel decision, we must be able to demonstrate compliance with all requirements for continued listing on The NASDAQ Stock Market. In the event we are unable to do so, our securities may be delisted from The NASDAQ Stock Market. 14 Table of Contents On October 4, 2011, we received a letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market (NASDAQ) indicating that for 30 consecutive business days our common stock did not maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 (Minimum Bid Price Requirement) per share as required by NASDAQ Listing Rule 5550(a)(2). The notification of non-compliance had no immediate effect on the listing or trading of our common stock on The NASDAQ Capital Market. Under the NASDAQ Listing Rules, if during the 180 calendar days following the date of the notification (that is, prior to April 2, 2012) the closing bid price of our common stock is at or above $1.00 per share for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days, we will regain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Requirement and the matter will be closed. If we do not regain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Requirement by April 2, 2012, NASDAQ will provide written notification that our common stock is subject to delisting. We may appeal NASDAQ’s determination to a NASDAQ Hearing Panel at such time as we receive any notification that we have no further grace period. Failure to meet NASDAQ’s continued listing criteria may result in the delisting of our common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Markets. A delisting from the NASDAQ Capital Market would make the trading market for our common stock less liquid, and would also make us ineligible to use Form S-3 to register the sale of shares of our common stock or to register the resale of our securities held by certain of our security holders with the SEC, thereby making it more difficult and expensive for us to register our common stock or other securities and raise additional capital. Our stockholders may be diluted by the conversion of our Series B Preferred Stock and the exercise of warrants; in the event we have a “change of control” or if we fail to comply with the terms of the Series B Preferred Stock, we may be in default and face demands for redemption and significant penalties. On February 17, 2011, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with accredited investors, pursuant to which we sold to such investors our Series B 4% Convertible Preferred (“Series B Preferred”), which was initially convertible into an aggregate of 2,000,000 of our common stock at an initial conversion price of $1.80 per share, and our Series K Warrants that are exercisable for an aggregate of 1,700,002 shares of our common stock, initially at an exercise price of $2.40 per share, subject to future adjustment for various events. As a result of our sale of common stock at a price per share of $0.60 under a December 30, 2011 securities purchase agreement, (i) pursuant to the terms of the outstanding Series B Preferred, the conversion price of the Series B Preferred was reduced to become $0.60 per share of common stock, and (ii) pursuant to the terms of the outstanding Series K Warrants to purchase 1,700,002 shares of common stock, the exercise price per share of those warrants was reduced to become $0.60 per share of common stock. The conversion price of the Series B Preferred is subject to adjustment downward in the event that we sell common stock (or securities convertible into or exercisable for shares of common stock) at an effective price below the conversion price of the Series B Preferred. If the price adjustment provisions are triggered, then the number of shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Series B Preferred may be subject to increase, and the exercise price of the Series K Warrants is subject to decrease. When the investors convert or exercise these securities, our stockholders may experience dilution in the net tangible book value of their common stock. In addition, the sale or availability for sale of the underlying shares in the marketplace could depress our stock price. We have registered for resale all of the underlying shares of common stock relating to the Series B Preferred and the Series K Warrants. As a result, the investors could resell the underlying shares immediately upon issuance, which may result in significant downward pressure on the market price of our stock. In addition, the terms of our Series B Preferred include various agreements and negative covenants on our part. In the event we fail to comply with those provisions, or if a “change of control” of the Company occurs, it could constitute a “triggering event” (as defined in the Certificate of Designation which designates the rights of the Series B Preferred), and the holders of our Series B Preferred could then demand that all of the outstanding shares of Series B Preferred be redeemed for cash, or under certain circumstances, for shares of our common stock. Any such demand for redemption in cash could have a material adverse affect on our financial position and liquidity, and any demand for redemption in stock could have a material dilutive effect for our stockholders. In addition, in such event the dividend rate on our outstanding Series B Preferred is subject to increase to 18% per annum thereafter. Future sales of common stock by our existing stockholders may cause our stock price to fall. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by our existing stockholders of shares of common stock in the market, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of March 15, 2012, we had 16,805,329 shares of common stock outstanding (which includes 426,895 unvested shares of restricted stock granted to our Board of Directors and our employees), 2,273 shares of Series B Preferred Stock that are convertible into 3,409,029 shares of common stock and we had warrants to purchase 3,633,794 shares of common stock and options to purchase 1,077,744 shares of common stock outstanding. All of the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of our outstanding vested options will be freely tradable without restriction under the federal securities laws unless purchased by our affiliates. The shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of our outstanding warrants are generally covered (or will be covered) by effective registration statements which permit the underlying shares issuable upon their exercise to be freely tradable in the public market. 15 Table of Contents Our stock price may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could fluctuate widely in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: · technological innovations or new products and services by us or our competitors; · announcements or press releases relating to the energy sector or to our business or prospects; · additions or departures of key personnel; · regulatory, legislative or other developments affecting us or the solar power industry generally; · our ability to execute our business plan; · operating results that fall below expectations; · volume and timing of customer orders; · industry developments; · economic and other external factors; · period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results; and · future developments relating to our announcement of our pursuit of a business combination with CBD. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also significantly affect the market price of our common stock. Risks Relating to Our Company On February 15, 2012, we entered into a non-binding term sheet for a proposed acquisition by CBD Energy Limited. The negotiation and pendency of any business combination may divert resources and the focus of our management team and employees, and may cause uncertainty and negative reaction on the part of our customers, employees, suppliers, or other third-party relationships. If the merger contemplated by the term sheet does not occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. On February 15, 2012, we entered into a term sheet with CBD Energy Limited, a corporation organized under the laws of Australia (CBD), to pursue a business combination by means of a merger in which CBD would become our parent company. We, or a newly formed subsidiary, would become a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the CBD. Pursuant to the term sheet, our stockholders would receive shares of CBD in exchange for their shares. The term sheet is generally non-binding by both parties, with the exception of certain provisions that are binding, including confidentiality and payment of expenses. There is no assurance that the parties will succeed in reaching definitive agreement to pursue the business combination, that a proposed merger will be approved by the shareholders of both companies or, if the merger takes place, that the combination of both companies will be beneficial to our shareholders. During negotiation toward a definitive agreement, and if an agreement is reached, then until shareholder approval and closing, the focus of our management team and employees may be diverted, and there may be uncertainty and negative reaction to the potential merger on the part of our customers, employees, suppliers, or other third-party relationships. If the merger contemplated by the term sheet does not occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. Our Chief Executive Officer, Barry Cinnamon, beneficially owns a significant number of shares of our common stock, which gives him significant influence over decisions on which our stockholders may vote and which may discourage an acquisition of the Company. Barry Cinnamon, our Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owns, in the aggregate, approximately 11.4% of our outstanding common stock as of March 15, 2012. The interests of our Chief Executive Officer may differ from the interests of other stockholders. As a result, Mr. Cinnamon’s voting power may have a significant influence on the outcome of virtually all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, irrespective of how our other stockholders may vote, including the following actions: · election of our directors; · the amendment of our Certificate of Incorporation or By-laws; and · the merger of our company or the sale of our assets or other corporate transaction. Mr. Cinnamon’s stock ownership may discourage a potential acquirer from seeking to acquire shares of our common stock or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company, which in turn could reduce our stock price or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over our stock price. 16 Table of Contents We are subject to the reporting requirements of the federal securities laws, which impose additional burdens on us We are a public reporting company and, accordingly, subject to the information and reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and other federal securities laws, including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As a public company, these rules and regulations result in increased compliance costs and make certain activities more time consuming and costly. Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes our board to create new series of preferred stock without further approval by our stockholders, which could adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority to fix and determine the relative rights and preferences of preferred stock. Our Board of Directors also has the authority to issue preferred stock without further stockholder approval. As a result, our Board of Directors could authorize the issuance of new series of preferred stock that would grant to holders the preferred right to our assets upon liquidation, the right to receive dividend payments before dividends are distributed to the holders of common stock and the right to the redemption of the shares, together with a premium, prior to the redemption of our common stock. In addition, our Board of Directors could authorize the issuance of new series of preferred stock that has greater voting power than our common stock or that is convertible into our common stock, which could decrease the relative voting power of our common stock or result in dilution to our existing stockholders. 17 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 