Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our CompanyClaims on policies written under our short-tail insurance lines that arise from unpredictable and severe catastrophic events could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.The majority of our gross premiums written to date are in short-tail lines, many of which have the potential to accumulate, which means we could become liable for a significant amount of losses in a brief period. The short-tail policies we write expose us to claims arising out of unpredictable natural and other catastrophic events, whether arising from natural causes such as hurricanes, windstorms, tsunamis, severe winter weather, earthquakes and floods, or man-made causes such as fires, explosions, acts of terrorism, war or political unrest. Many observers believe that the Atlantic basin is in the active phase of a multi-decade cycle in which conditions in the ocean and atmosphere, including warmer-than-average sea-surface temperatures and low wind shear, enhance hurricane activity. This increase in the number and intensity of tropical storms and hurricanes can span multiple decades (approximately 20 to 30 years). These conditions may translate to a greater potential for hurricanes to make landfall in the U.S. at higher intensities over the next several years. In addition, climate change may be causing changes in global temperatures, which may in the future increase the frequency and severity of natural catastrophes and the losses resulting therefrom. The extent of losses from catastrophes is a function of both the number and severity of the insured events and the total amount of insured exposure in the areas affected. Increases in the value and concentrations of insured property, the effects of inflation and changes in cyclical weather patterns may increase the severity of claims from natural catastrophic events in the future. Similarly, changes in global political and economic conditions may increase both the frequency and severity of man-made catastrophic events in the future. Claims from catastrophic events could reduce our earnings and cause substantial volatility in our results of operations for any fiscal quarter or year, which could adversely affect our financial condition, possibly to the extent of eliminating our shareholders’ equity. Our ability to write new reinsurance policies could also be affected as a result of corresponding reductions in our capital.Underwriting is inherently a matter of judgment, involving important assumptions about matters that are unpredictable and beyond our control, and for which historical experience and probability analysis may not provide sufficient guidance. One or more catastrophic or other events could result in claims that substantially exceed our expectations and which would become due in a short period of time, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations.Emerging claim and coverage issues could adversely affect our business.As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until sometime after we have issued insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes. For example, a (re)insurance contract might limit the amount that can be recovered as a result of flooding. However, if the flood damage was caused by an event that also caused extensive wind damage, the quantification of the two types of damage is often a matter of judgment. Similarly, one geographic zone could be affected by more than one catastrophic event. In this case, the amount recoverable from an insurer or reinsurer may in part be determined by the judgmental allocation of damage between the events. Given the magnitude of the amounts at stake, these types of issues occasionally necessitate judicial resolution. In addition, our actual losses may vary materially from our current estimate of the loss based on a number of factors, including receipt of additional information from insureds or brokers, the attribution of losses to coverages that had not previously been considered as exposed and inflation in repair costs due to additional demand for labor and materials. As a result, the full extent of liability under an insurance or reinsurance contract may not be known for many years after such contract is issued and a loss occurs. Our exposure to this uncertainty is greater in our longer tail lines (marine and energy liabilities, aviation products and airports (aviation direct), financial lines, construction, political risk and liability).We depend on ratings from third party rating agencies. Our financial strength rating could be revised downward, which could affect our standing among brokers and customers, cause our premiums and earnings to decrease and limit our ability to pay dividends on our common shares.Third-party rating agencies assess and rate the financial strength of insurers and reinsurers based upon criteria established by the rating agencies, which criteria are subject to change. The financial strength ratings assigned by rating agencies to insurance and reinsurance companies represent independent opinions of financial strength and ability to meet policyholder obligations and are not directed toward the protection of investors. Ratings have become an increasingly important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance and reinsurance companies. Insurers and intermediaries use these ratings as one measure by which to assess the financial strength and quality of insurers and reinsurers. These ratings are often a key factor in the decision by an insured or intermediary of whether to place business with a particular insurance or reinsurance provider. These ratings are not an evaluation directed toward the protection of investors or a recommendation to buy, sell or hold our common shares.29If our financial strength rating is reduced from current levels, our competitive position in the (re)insurance industry could suffer, and it would be more difficult for us to market our products. A downgrade could result in a significant reduction in the number of (re)insurance contracts we write as our customers and brokers that place such business, move to other competitors with higher financial strength ratings. The substantial majority of reinsurance contracts issued through reinsurance brokers contain provisions permitting the ceding company to cancel such contracts in the event of a downgrade of the reinsurer by A.M. Best below “A-” (Excellent). We cannot predict in advance the extent to which this cancellation right would be exercised, if at all, or what effect any such cancellations would have on our financial condition or future operations, but such effect could be material and adverse. Consequently, substantially all of Validus Re’s business could be affected by a downgrade of our A.M. Best rating below “A-”.The indenture governing our Junior Subordinated Deferrable Debentures would restrict us from declaring or paying dividends on our common shares if we are downgraded by A.M. Best to a financial strength rating of “B” (Fair) or below or if A.M. Best withdraws its financial strength rating on any of our material insurance subsidiaries. A downgrade of the Company’s A.M. Best financial strength rating below “B++” (Fair) would also constitute an event of default under our credit facilities. Either of these events could, among other things, reduce the Company’s financial flexibility.If our risk management and loss limitation methods fail to adequately manage exposure to losses from catastrophic events, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.We manage exposure to catastrophic losses by analyzing the probability and severity of the occurrence of catastrophic events and the impact of such events on our overall (re)insurance and investment portfolio. We use various tools to analyze and manage the reinsurance exposures assumed from insureds and ceding companies and risks from a catastrophic event that could have an adverse effect on our investment portfolio. VCAPS, our proprietary risk modeling software, enables us to assess the adequacy of reinsurance risk pricing and to monitor the overall exposure to insurance and reinsurance risk in correlated geographic zones. There can be no assurance that the models and assumptions used by the software will accurately predict losses. Further, there can be no assurance that the models are free of defects in the modeling logic or in the software code. In addition, we have not sought copyright or other legal protection for VCAPS.In addition, much of the information that we enter into the risk modeling software is based on third-party data that may not be reliable, as well as estimates and assumptions that are dependent on many variables, such as assumptions about building material and labor demand surge, storm surge, the expenses of settling claims (known as loss adjustment expenses), insurance-to-value and storm intensity. Accordingly, if the estimates and assumptions that are entered into the proprietary risk model are incorrect, or if the proprietary risk model proves to be an inaccurate forecasting tool, the losses we might incur from an actual catastrophe could be materially higher than the expectation of losses generated from modeled catastrophe scenarios, and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.A modeled outcome of net loss from a single event also relies in significant part on the reinsurance and retrocessional arrangements in place, or expected to be in place at the time of the analysis, and may change during the year. Modeled outcomes assume that the reinsurance in place responds as expected with minimal reinsurance failure or dispute. Reinsurance and retrocessional coverage is purchased to protect the inwards exposure in line with our risk appetite, but it is possible for there to be a mismatch or gap in cover which could result in higher than modeled losses. In addition, many parts of our reinsurance program are purchased with limited reinstatements and, therefore, the number of claims or events which may be recovered from second or subsequent events is limited. It should also be noted that renewal dates of the reinsurance and retrocessional program do not necessarily coincide with those of the inwards business written. Where inwards business is not protected by risks attaching reinsurance and retrocessional programs, the programs could expire resulting in an increase in the possible net loss retained and as such, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.We also seek to limit loss exposure through loss limitation provisions in policies we write, such as limitations on the amount of losses that can be claimed under a policy, limitations or exclusions from coverage and provisions relating to choice of forum, which are intended to assure that our policies are legally interpreted as intended. There can be no assurance that these contractual provisions will be enforceable in the manner expected or that disputes relating to coverage will be resolved in our favor. If the loss limitation provisions in the policies are not enforceable or disputes arise concerning the application of such provisions, the losses we incur from a catastrophic event could be materially higher than expected and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.30The insurance and reinsurance business is historically cyclical and we expect to experience periods with excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable premium rates and policy terms and conditions, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.The insurance and reinsurance industry has historically been cyclical. Insurers and reinsurers have experienced significant fluctuations in operating results due to competition, frequency of occurrence or severity of catastrophic events, levels of underwriting capacity, underwriting results of primary insurers, general economic conditions and other factors. The supply of insurance and reinsurance is related to prevailing prices, the level of insured losses and the level of industry surplus which, in turn, may fluctuate, including in response to changes in rates of return on investments being earned in the reinsurance industry.The insurance and reinsurance pricing cycle has historically been a market phenomenon, driven by supply and demand rather than by the actual cost of coverage. The upward phase of a cycle is often triggered when a major event forces insurers and reinsurers to make large claim payments, thereby drawing down capital. This, combined with increased demand for insurance against the risk associated with the event, pushes prices upwards. Over time, insurers’ and reinsurers’ capital is replenished with the higher revenues. At the same time, new entrants flock to the industry seeking a part of the profitable business. This combination prompts a slide in prices—the downward cycle—until a major insured event potentially restarts the upward phase. As a result, the insurance and reinsurance business has been characterized by periods of intense competition on price and policy terms due to excessive underwriting capacity, which is the percentage of surplus or the dollar amount of exposure that a reinsurer is willing to place at risk, as well as periods when shortages of capacity result in favorable premium rates and policy terms and conditions.Premium levels may be adversely affected by a number of factors which fluctuate and may contribute to price declines generally in the reinsurance industry. For example, as premium levels for many products increased subsequent to the significant natural catastrophes of 2004 and 2005, the supply of reinsurance increased, either as a result of capital provided by new entrants or by the commitment of additional capital by existing reinsurers. Increases in the supply of insurance and reinsurance may have consequences for the reinsurance industry generally and for us including fewer contracts written, lower premium rates, increased expenses for customer acquisition and retention, and less favorable policy terms and conditions. As a consequence, the Company will experience greater competition on most insurance and reinsurance lines. This could adversely affect the rates we receive for our (re)insurance and our gross premiums written. The insurance and reinsurance industry is currently experiencing a soft market whereby premiums tend to be lower, capacity is higher and competition increases.The cyclical trends in the industry and the industry’s profitability can also be affected significantly by volatile and unpredictable developments, such as natural disasters (e.g., catastrophic hurricanes, windstorms, tornadoes, earthquakes and floods), courts granting large awards for certain damages, fluctuations in interest rates, changes in the investment environment that affect market prices of investments and inflationary pressures that may tend to affect the size of losses experienced by insureds and primary insurance companies. We expect to experience the effects of cyclicality, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Competition for business in our industry is intense, and if we are unable to compete effectively, we may not be able to retain market share and our business may be materially adversely affected.The insurance and reinsurance industries are highly competitive. We face intense competition, based upon (among other things) global capacity, product breadth, reputation and experience with respect to particular lines of business, relationships with (re)insurance intermediaries, quality of service, capital and perceived financial strength (including independent rating agencies’ ratings), innovation and price. We compete with major global insurance and reinsurance companies and underwriting syndicates, many of which have extensive experience in (re)insurance and may have greater financial, marketing and employee resources available to them than us. Other financial institutions, such as banks and hedge funds, now offer products and services similar to our products and services through alternative capital markets products that are structured to provide protections similar to those provided by reinsurers. These products, such as catastrophe-linked bonds, compete with our products. In the future, underwriting capacity will continue to enter the market from these identified competitors and perhaps other sources. Increased competition could result in fewer submissions and lower rates, which could have a material adverse effect on our growth and profitability. If we are unable to compete effectively against these competitors, we may not be able to retain market share and this could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.In addition, insureds have been retaining a greater proportion of their risk portfolios than previously, and industrial and commercial companies have been increasingly relying upon their own subsidiary insurance companies, known as captive insurance companies, self-insurance pools, risk retention groups, mutual insurance companies and other mechanisms for funding their risks, rather than risk transferring insurance. This has also put downward pressure on (re)insurance premiums.31Consolidation in the (re)insurance industry could adversely affect our business.We believe that several (re)insurance industry participants are seeking to consolidate. These consolidated entities may try to use their enhanced market power to negotiate price reductions for our products and services and/or obtain a larger market share through increased line sizes. If competitive pressures reduce our prices, we would expect to write less business. As the (re)insurance industry consolidates, competition for customers will become more intense and the importance of acquiring and properly servicing each customer will become greater. We could incur greater expenses relating to customer acquisition and retention, further reducing our operating margins. In addition, insurance companies that merge may be able to spread their risks across a consolidated, larger capital base so that they require less reinsurance. Reinsurance intermediaries could also continue to consolidate, potentially adversely impacting our ability to access business and distribute our products. We could also experience more robust competition from larger, better capitalized competitors. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business or our results of operations.If we underestimate our reserve for losses and loss expenses, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.Our success depends on our ability to accurately assess the risks associated with the businesses and properties that we insure/reinsure. If unpredictable catastrophic events occur, or if we fail to adequately manage our exposure to losses or fail to adequately estimate our reserve requirements, our actual losses and loss expenses may deviate, perhaps substantially, from our reserve estimates.We estimate the risks associated with our outstanding obligations, including the risk embedded within our unearned premiums. To do this, we establish reserves for losses and loss expenses (or loss reserves), which are liabilities that we record to reflect the estimated costs of claim payment and the related expenses that we will ultimately be required to pay in respect of premiums written and include case reserves and IBNR reserves. However, under U.S. GAAP, we are not permitted to establish reserves for losses until an event which gives rise to a claim occurs. As a result, only reserves applicable to losses incurred up to the reporting date may be set aside on our financial statements, with no allowance for the provision of loss reserves to account for possible other future losses, unless we deem the unearned premium reserve to be insufficient to cover future losses on risks that have already incepted. Case reserves are reserves established with respect to specific individual reported claims. IBNR reserves are reserves for estimated losses that we have incurred but that have not yet been reported to us.Our reserve estimates do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Rather, they are estimates of what we expect the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost. These estimates are based upon actuarial and statistical projections, on our assessment of currently available data, predictions of future developments and estimates of future trends and other variable factors such as inflation. Establishing an appropriate level for our loss reserve estimates is an inherently uncertain process. It is likely that the ultimate liability will be greater or less than these estimates and that, at times, this variance will be material. Our reserve estimates are regularly refined as experience develops and claims are reported and settled. In addition, as we operate largely through intermediaries, reserving for our business can involve added uncertainty arising from our dependence on information from ceding companies which, in addition to the risk of receiving inaccurate information, involves an inherent time lag between reporting information from the primary insurer to us. Additionally, ceding companies employ differing reserving practices which add further uncertainty to the establishment of our reserves. Moreover, in certain circumstances, the Company has necessitated the use of industry loss emergence patterns in deriving IBNR. Loss emergence patterns are development patterns used to project current reported or paid loss amounts to their ultimate settlement value or amount. Further, expected losses and loss ratios are typically developed using vendor and proprietary computer models and these expected loss ratios are a material component in the calculation of IBNR. Actual loss ratios will deviate from expected loss ratios and ultimate loss ratios will be greater or less than expected loss ratios. Because of these uncertainties, it is possible that our estimates for reserves at any given time could prove inadequate.To the extent we determine that actual losses and loss adjustment expenses from events which have occurred exceed our expectations and the loss reserves reflected in our financial statements, we will be required to reflect these changes in the current reporting period. This could cause a sudden and material increase in our liabilities and a reduction in our profitability, including operating losses and reduction of capital, which could materially restrict our ability to write new business and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and potentially our A.M. Best rating.The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make many estimates and judgments which, if inaccurate, could cause volatility in our results.Our Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Management believes the item that requires the most subjective and complex estimates is the reserve for losses and loss expenses. Following a major catastrophic event, the possibility of future litigation or legislative change that may affect interpretation of policy terms further increases the degree of uncertainty in the reserving process. The uncertainties inherent in the reserving process, together with the potential for unforeseen developments, including changes in laws and the prevailing interpretation of policy terms, may result in losses and loss expenses materially different than the reserves initially established. Changes to prior year reserves will affect current underwriting results by increasing net income if the prior year reserves prove to be redundant or by decreasing net income if the prior year reserves 32prove to be insufficient. We expect volatility in results in periods in which significant loss events occur because U.S. GAAP does not permit insurers or reinsurers to reserve for loss events until they have occurred and are expected to give rise to a claim. As a result, we are not allowed to record contingency reserves to account for expected future losses. We anticipate that claims arising from future events will require the establishment of substantial reserves from time to time.Changes in current accounting practices and future pronouncements could materially impact our reported financial results.Unanticipated developments in accounting practices may require us to divert resources from other operational roles to comply with such developments, particularly if we are required to prepare information relating to prior periods for comparative purposes or significantly modify existing processes to apply the new requirements prospectively. The impact of changes in current accounting practices and future pronouncements cannot be predicted; however, they may affect the calculation of net income, net equity and other relevant financial statement line items. We rely on key personnel and the loss of their services may adversely affect us. The Bermuda location of our head office may be an impediment to attracting and retaining experienced personnel.Various aspects of our business depend on the services and skills of key personnel of the Company. We believe there are only a limited number of available qualified executives in the business lines in which we compete. We rely substantially upon the services of Edward J. Noonan, Chairman of our Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer; Jeffrey D. Sangster, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; John J. Hendrickson, Director of Strategy, Risk Management and Corporate Development; Kean Driscoll, Executive Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of Validus Reinsurance, Ltd.; C.N. Rupert Atkin, Chief Executive Officer of the Talbot Group; Robert F. Kuzloski, Executive Vice President and General Counsel; Andrew E. Kudera, Executive Vice President and Chief Actuary; Lixin Zeng, Executive Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of AlphaCat Managers Ltd.; Romel Salam, Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer; Jonathan P. Ritz, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer and Michael R. Moore, Executive Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer, among other key employees. The loss of any of their services or the services of other members of our management team or any difficulty in attracting and retaining other talented personnel could impede the further implementation of our business strategy, reduce our revenues and decrease our operational effectiveness. Although we have an employment agreement with each of the above named executives, there is a possibility that these employment agreements may not be enforceable in the event any of these employees leave. The employment agreements for each of the above-named executives provide that the terms of the agreement will continue for a defined period after either party giving notice of termination, and will terminate immediately upon the Company giving notice of termination for cause. We do not currently maintain key man life insurance policies with respect to these or any of our other employees. In addition, changes in employment laws, taxation and remuneration practices within our operating jurisdiction may adversely impact the retention or recruitment of key personnel.The operating location of our head office and our primary Validus Re subsidiary may be an impediment to attracting and retaining experienced personnel. Under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians (other than spouses of Bermudians or permanent resident certificate holders) may not engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without an appropriate governmental work permit. Our success may depend in part on the continued services of key employees in Bermuda. A work permit may be granted or renewed upon demonstrating that, after proper public advertisement, no Bermudian (or spouse of a Bermudian or a holder of a permanent resident’s certificate) is available who meets the minimum standards reasonably required by the employer. A work permit is issued with an expiry date (up to ten years for senior executives) and no assurances can be given that any work permit will be issued or, if issued, renewed upon the expiration of the relevant term. If work permits are not obtained, or are not renewed, for our principal employees, we would lose their services, which could materially affect our business. Work permits are currently required for 47 of our Bermuda employees, the majority of whom have obtained three- or five-year work permits.Certain of our directors and officers may have conflicts of interest with us.Entities affiliated with some of our directors have sponsored or invested in, and may in the future sponsor or invest in, other entities engaged in or intending to engage in insurance and reinsurance underwriting, some of which compete with us. They have also entered into, or may in the future enter into, agreements with companies that compete with us.We have a policy in place applicable to each of our directors and officers which provides for the resolution of potential conflicts of interest. However, we may not be in a position to influence any party’s decision to engage in activities that would give rise to a conflict of interest, and they may take actions that are not in our shareholders’ best interests.We may require additional capital or credit in the future, which may not be available or only available on unfavorable terms.We monitor our capital adequacy on a regular basis. The capital requirements of our business depend on many factors, including our premiums written, loss reserves, investment portfolio composition and risk exposures, as well as satisfying regulatory and rating agency capital requirements. Our ability to underwrite is largely dependent upon the quality of our claims paying and financial strength ratings as evaluated by independent rating agencies. To the extent that our existing capital is insufficient to fund our future operating requirements and/or cover claim losses, we may need to raise additional funds through financings or limit our growth. Any 33equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are unfavorable to us. In the case of equity financings, dilution to our shareholders could result, and, in any case, such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our outstanding securities. In addition, the capital and credit markets have recently been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption. In some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on the availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. If we are not able to obtain adequate capital, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.In addition, for certain of our subsidiaries as an alien insurer and reinsurer (not licensed in the U.S.), we are required to post collateral security with respect to any (re)insurance liabilities that we assume from insureds or ceding insurers domiciled in the U.S. in order for U.S. ceding companies to obtain full statutory and regulatory credit for our reinsurance. Other jurisdictions may have similar collateral requirements. Under applicable statutory provisions, these security arrangements may be in the form of letters of credit, insurance or reinsurance trusts maintained by trustees or funds-withheld arrangements where assets are held by the ceding company. We intend to satisfy such statutory requirements by maintaining the trust fund requirements for Talbot’s underwriting at Lloyd’s and Validus Re and by providing to primary insurers letters of credit issued under our credit facilities or access to our multi-beneficiary trusts. To the extent that we are required to post additional security in the future, we may require additional letter of credit capacity and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such additional capacity or arrange for other types of security on commercially acceptable terms or on terms as favorable as under our current letter of credit facilities. Our inability to provide collateral satisfying the statutory and regulatory guidelines applicable to insureds and primary insurers would have a material adverse effect on our ability to provide (re)insurance to third parties and negatively affect our financial position and results of operations.Security arrangements may subject our assets to security interests and/or require that a portion of our assets be pledged to, or otherwise held by, third parties. Although the investment income derived from our assets while held in trust typically accrues to our benefit, the investment of these assets is governed by the investment regulations of the state of domicile of the ceding insurer and therefore the investment returns on these assets may not be as high as they otherwise would be.Loss of business from one or more major brokers could adversely affect us.We market our insurance and reinsurance on a worldwide basis primarily through brokers, and we depend on a small number of brokers for a large portion of our revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2015, our business was primarily sourced from the following brokers: Marsh & McLennan 28.2%, Aon Benfield Group Ltd. 15.5%, and Willis Group Holdings Ltd. 14.3%. These three brokers provided a total of 58.0% of our gross premiums written for the year ended December 31, 2015. Loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided by one or more of these brokers could adversely affect our business.We assume a degree of credit risk associated with substantially all of our brokers.In accordance with industry practice, we frequently pay amounts owed on claims under our policies to brokers and the brokers, in turn, pay these amounts over to the insured and reassured that have reinsured a portion of their liabilities with us. In some jurisdictions, if a broker fails to make such a payment, we might remain liable to the insured or reassured for the deficiency notwithstanding the broker’s obligation to make such payment. Conversely, in certain jurisdictions, when the insured or reassured pays premiums for these policies to the insurance and reinsurance brokers for payment to us, these premiums are considered to have been paid and the insured or reassured will no longer be liable to us for these premiums, whether or not we have actually received them. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with substantially all of our brokers.Our utilization of brokers, managing general agents and other third parties to support our business exposes us to operational and financial risksOur insurance business relies upon brokers, managing general agents and other third parties to produce and service a portion of its operations. In these arrangements, we typically grant the third party the right to bind us to new and renewal policies, subject to underwriting guidelines we provide and other contractual restrictions and obligations. Should these third parties issue policies that contravene these guidelines, restrictions or obligations, we could nonetheless be deemed liable for such policies. Although we would intend to resist claims that exceed or expand on our underwriting intention, it is possible that we would not prevail in such an action, or that our managing general agent would be unable to adequately indemnify us for their contractual breach.We also rely on managing general agents, third party administrators or other third parties we retain, to collect premiums and to pay valid claims. We could also be exposed to their or their producer’s operational risk, including, but not limited to, contract wording errors, technological and staffing deficiencies and inadequate disaster recovery plans. We could also be exposed to potential liabilities relating to the claims practices of the third party administrators we have retained to manage the claims activity on this business. Although we have implemented monitoring and other oversight protocols, we cannot assure that these measures will be sufficient to mitigate all of these exposures.34Our success depends on our ability to establish and maintain effective operating procedures and internal controls. Failure to detect control issues and any instances of fraud could adversely affect us.Our success is dependent upon our ability to establish and maintain operating procedures and internal controls (including the timely and successful implementation of information technology systems and programs) to effectively support our business and our regulatory and reporting requirements. We may not be successful in such efforts. Even when implemented, as a result of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide full assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company will be detected.We may be unable to purchase reinsurance or retrocessional reinsurance in the future, and if we do successfully purchase reinsurance or retrocessional reinsurance, we may be unable to collect on claims submitted under such policies, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.We purchase reinsurance and retrocessional reinsurance in order that we may offer insureds and cedants greater capacity, and to mitigate the effect of large and multiple losses on our financial condition. Reinsurance is a transaction whereby an insurer or reinsurer cedes to a reinsurer or retrocessional reinsurer all or part of the insurance it has written or reinsurance it has assumed. A reinsurer’s or retrocessional reinsurer’s insolvency or inability or refusal to make timely payments under the terms of its reinsurance agreement with us could have an adverse effect on us because we remain liable to our client. From time to time, market conditions have limited, and in some cases have prevented, insurers and reinsurers from obtaining the types and amounts of reinsurance or retrocessional reinsurance that they consider adequate for their business needs. Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain our desired amounts of reinsurance or retrocessional reinsurance or negotiate terms that we deem appropriate or acceptable or obtain reinsurance or retrocessional reinsurance from entities with satisfactory creditworthiness.Our investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns or losses which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Any increase in interest rates or volatility in the fixed income markets could result in significant unrealized losses in the fair value of our investment portfolio which would reduce our net income. Our operating results depend in part on the performance of our investment portfolio, which currently consists largely of fixed maturity securities, as well as the ability of our investment managers to effectively implement our investment strategy. Our Board of Directors, led by our Finance Committee, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Investment Officer oversees our investment strategy and IPS, which provides the framework for the management and oversight of the Company’s investment portfolio. See “Business-Investment Management” for further details on the Company’s IPS.While we follow a conservative investment strategy designed to emphasize the preservation of invested assets and to provide sufficient liquidity for the prompt payment of claims, we will nevertheless be subject to market-wide risks including illiquidity and pricing uncertainty and fluctuations, as well as to risks inherent in particular securities. Our investment performance may vary substantially over time, and there can be no assurance that we will achieve our investment objectives. The investment return including net investment income, net realized and the change in net unrealized gains (losses) on managed investments was $95.1 million, or 1.4% for the year ended December 31, 2015. Investment results will also be affected by general economic conditions, market volatility, interest rate fluctuations, liquidity and credit risks beyond our control. In addition, our need for liquidity may result in investment returns below our expectations. Also, with respect to certain of our investments, we are subject to prepayment or reinvestment risk. At December 31, 2015, 25.1% of our managed fixed maturities portfolio is comprised of mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities which are subject to prepayment risk. Although we attempt to manage the risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, a significant increase in interest rates could result in significant losses, realized or unrealized, in the fair value of our investment portfolio and, consequently, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.A portion of our investment portfolio is allocated to investments which have risk characteristics different from our short-term and fixed maturity investment portfolio which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.A portion of our investment portfolio is allocated to hedge funds, investment funds and private equity investments, including our investments in investment affiliates, which contain risk characteristics different from our short-term and fixed maturity investment portfolio. These investments expose us to market risk and may experience significant volatility in their investment returns and valuations which could have an adverse impact our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, certain of these investments also expose us to liquidity risk and may be illiquid due to contractual provisions or market conditions. If we require significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of anticipated cash obligations, then we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner or we may be forced to sell or terminate them at unfavorable values which could adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.35Investment methodologies and assumptions are subject to differing interpretations and unrealized losses taken on our investments are subjective which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The valuation of our investments may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to our investment valuations. During periods of market disruptions, it may be difficult to value certain securities if trading becomes less frequent or market data less observable. There may also be certain asset classes that become illiquid due to the financial environment. As a result, valuation of securities in our investment portfolio may require more subjectivity and management judgment. Valuation methods that require greater estimation may result in values which may be greater or less than the value at which the investments may be ultimately sold. In addition, rapidly changing and unpredictable credit and equity market conditions could materially affect the valuation of securities as reported in our Consolidated Financial Statements.The determination of the unrealized losses taken on our investments are also partially subjective and could materially impact our financial position. Unrealized losses vary by investment type and are based upon our periodic evaluations and assessments of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Evaluations are revised as conditions change, and management reflects unrealized losses in operations on a quarterly basis. Furthermore, additional unrealized losses may need to be taken in the future. Subjective unrealized losses could adversely affect our financial condition and our results of operations.Our operating results may be adversely affected by currency fluctuations. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar and the majority of our operating companies have a functional currency of the U.S. dollar. Many of our companies maintain both assets and liabilities in local currencies. Therefore, we are exposed to foreign exchange risk on the assets and liabilities denominated in those foreign currencies. Foreign exchange risk is reviewed as part of our risk management process. Locally required capital levels may be invested in home currencies in order to satisfy regulatory requirements and to support local insurance operations. The principal currencies potentially creating unhedged foreign exchange risk are the Australian dollar, New Zealand dollar, Japanese yen, British pound sterling and the Euro. As a result of the accounting treatment for non-monetary items, we may experience volatility in our income statement during a period when movement in foreign exchange rates fluctuate significantly. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, non-monetary items are not re-measured at the reporting date and are therefore translated at historic exchange rates. Non-monetary items include unearned premiums and deferred acquisition costs. Therefore, a mismatch arises in the income statement between the amount of premium recognized at historical exchange rates and the related claims which are re-measured using currency rates at the reporting date which can cause volatility in the income statement. We look to manage our economic foreign currency exposure through matching our major foreign-denominated assets and liabilities, as well as through the use of currency derivatives. However, there is no guarantee that we will effectively mitigate our exposure to foreign exchange losses. Refer to Part II, Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” for further discussion of foreign currency risk.Heightened European sovereign debt risk could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our managed fixed maturity portfolio contains certain European government and government agency securities and European corporate securities which are subject to increased liquidity risk, interest rate risk and default risk as a result of heightened European sovereign debt risk. As of December 31, 2015, our managed fixed maturity portfolio contains $134.6 million or 2.5% of European government and government agency securities and $183.5 million or 3.4% of European corporate securities. Increased defaults, and/or a significant increase in interest rates could result in losses, realized or unrealized, in the fair value of our investment portfolio and, consequently, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.System security risks, data protection breaches, cyber-attacks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or information technology services provided to customers, and any such disruption could affect our ability to conduct our business, our financial condition and our ability to meet the demands of our customers and stakeholders.We depend on the proper functioning and availability of our information technology platform, including communications and data processing systems, in operating our business. These systems consist of proprietary software programs that are integral to the efficient operation of our business and include our pricing and exposure management system, VCAPS, and other non-proprietary systems such as our policy administration, actuarial and accounting systems. A prolonged failure of, or inability to access, one or more of our operational systems could significantly impair our ability to process premiums and claims, pay claims, perform actuarial modeling, prepare internal and external financial statements and information, as well as conduct other daily business activities. Such failure could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.We are also required to effect electronic transmissions with third parties including brokers, client's vendors and others with whom we do business, and to facilitate the oversight conducted by our Board of Directors. Security breaches arising from cyber-attacks could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of our information, litigation and potential liability and could impact the availability, reliability, speed, accuracy or other proper functioning of our IT systems. We may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber-attacks. A significant cyber incident, including system failure, security breach, 36disruption by malware or other damage could interrupt or delay our operations, result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, damage our reputation, cause a loss of customers or give rise to monetary fines and other penalties, which could be significant.The Company has a Business Continuity Program which has been developed to provide reasonable assurance of business continuity in the event of disruptions at the company’s critical facilities. The key elements of the program are business recovery, systems and data recovery. In the area of information security, we have developed and implemented a framework of principles, policies and technology to protect the information provided to us by our clients and that of the company from cyber-attacks and other misappropriation, corruption or loss. Safeguards are applied to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information; however, there is no guarantee that these measures will be sufficient to mitigate all of these exposures. We may be exposed to risk in connection with our management of third party capital. Our operating subsidiaries may owe certain legal duties and obligations to third party investors (including reporting obligations) and are subject to a variety of often complex laws and regulations relating to the management of third party capital. Compliance with some of these laws and regulations requires significant management time and attention. Although we seek to continually monitor our policies and procedures to attempt to ensure compliance, there could be faulty judgments, simple errors or mistakes, or the failure of our personnel to adhere to established policies and procedures that could result in our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations which could result in significant liabilities, penalties or other losses to the Company, and seriously harm our business and results of operations. In addition to the forgoing, our third party capital providers may redeem their interests in our managed funds, which could materially impact the financial condition of such funds, and could in turn materially impact our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to attract and raise additional third party capital for our existing funds or for potential new funds and therefore we may forego existing and/or potential fee income and other income generating opportunities.The ongoing development of our U.S. excess and surplus lines insurance operations is subject to increased risk from changing market conditions.Excess and surplus lines insurance is a substantial portion of the business written by our newly acquired U.S. operating subsidiary, Western World. Excess and surplus lines insurance covers risks that are typically more complex and unusual than standard risks and require a high degree of specialized underwriting. As a result, excess and surplus lines risks do not often fit the underwriting criteria of standard insurance carriers. Our excess and surplus lines insurance business fills the insurance needs of businesses with unique characteristics and is generally considered higher risk than those in the standard market. If our underwriting staff inadequately judges and prices the risks associated with the business underwritten in the excess and surplus lines market, our financial results could be adversely impacted. Further, the excess and surplus lines market is significantly affected by the conditions of the property and casualty insurance market in general. The impact of this cyclicality can be more pronounced in the excess and surplus market than in the standard insurance market. During times of hard market conditions (when market conditions are more favorable to insurers), as rates increase and coverage terms become more restrictive, business tends to move from the admitted market to the excess and surplus lines market and growth in the excess and surplus market can be significantly more rapid than growth in the standard insurance market. When soft market conditions are prevalent (when market conditions are less favorable to insurers), standard insurance carriers tend to loosen underwriting standards and expand market share by moving into business lines traditionally characterized as excess and surplus lines, exacerbating the effect of rate decreases. If we fail to manage the cyclical nature and volatility of the revenues and profit we generate in the excess and surplus lines market, our financial results could be adversely impacted.A decrease in the fair value of Talbot, Western World and/or our intangible assets may result in future impairments.Goodwill and intangible assets are assessed for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. These assessments require us to use significant judgment in making various estimates and assumptions, such as the determination of expected future cash flows and/or earnings, and actual results may ultimately be materially different from such estimates and assumptions. For example, expected future cash flows and/or earnings may be materially and negatively impacted as a result of, among other things, a decrease in renewals and new business, loss of key personnel, lower-than-expected yields and/or cash flows from our investment portfolio or higher-than-expected claims activity and incurred losses as well as other general economic factors. As a result of these potential changes, the estimated fair value of Talbot, Western World and/or our intangible assets may decrease, causing the carrying value to exceed the fair value and the goodwill and/or intangible assets to be impaired. If an impairment is determined to exist, the carrying value of the goodwill and/or intangible asset is adjusted to its implied fair value with the corresponding expense recorded in our income statement in the period in which the impairment is determined. If we are required to record goodwill impairments in the future, our financial condition and results of operations would be negatively affected.37Risks Related to Acquisitions and New VenturesAny future acquisitions or new ventures may expose us to operational risks.We may in the future make strategic acquisitions, either of other companies or selected books of business, or grow our business organically. Any future acquisitions or new ventures may expose us to operational challenges and risks, including:•integrating financial and operational reporting systems;•integration into new geographical regions;•establishing satisfactory budgetary and other financial controls;•funding increased capital needs and overhead expenses;•retaining management personnel required for existing operations;•obtaining management personnel required for expanded operations;•obtaining necessary regulatory permissions;•funding cash flow shortages that may occur if anticipated revenues are not realized or are delayed, whether by general economic or market conditions or unforeseen internal difficulties;•the value of assets related to acquisitions or new ventures may be lower than expected or may diminish due to credit defaults or changes in interest rates and liabilities assumed may be greater than expected;•the assets and liabilities related to acquisitions or new ventures may be subject to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation; and•financial exposures in the event that the sellers of the entities we acquire are unable or unwilling to meet their indemnification, reinsurance and other obligations to us.Our failure to manage successfully these operational challenges and risks may adversely impact our results of operations.Risks Related to Lloyd’s and Other U.K. Regulatory Matters The regulation of Lloyd’s members and of Lloyd’s by the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”) and Prudential Regulation Authority (“PRA”) and under European Directives and other local laws may result in intervention that could have a significant negative impact on Talbot.Talbot operates in a regulated jurisdiction. Its underwriting activities are regulated by the FCA and PRA and franchised by Lloyd’s. The FCA and PRA have substantial powers of intervention in relation to the Lloyd’s managing agents (such as Talbot Underwriting Ltd.) which it regulates, including the power to remove their authorization to manage Lloyd’s syndicates. In addition, the Lloyd’s Franchise Board is responsible for approving every syndicate's annual business plan, including the maximum premium volume they may write, and may require changes to any business plan presented to it or additional capital (known as Funds at Lloyd's or "FAL") to be provided to support underwriting. The Lloyd's internal model, which covers all members at Lloyd's, in aggregate, was approved by the PRA in December 2015. An adverse determination in any of these cases could lead to a change in business strategy which may have an adverse effect on Talbot’s financial condition and results of operations.An EU directive covering the capital adequacy, risk management and regulatory reporting for insurers, known as Solvency II was adopted by the European Parliament in April 2009. Solvency II came into force on January 1, 2016. Insurers and reinsurers have been and continue to undertake a significant amount of work to ensure that they meet the new requirements and this may divert resources from other operational roles. Talbot is currently in compliance with all Solvency II requirements. Additionally, Lloyd’s worldwide insurance and reinsurance business is subject to local regulation. Changes in such regulation may have an adverse effect on Lloyd’s generally and on Talbot in particular.Should Lloyd’s Council decide additional levies are required to support the central fund, this could adversely affect Talbot.The central fund, which is funded by annual contributions and loans from Lloyd’s members, acts as a policyholders’ protection fund to make payments where any Lloyd’s member has failed to pay, or is unable to pay, valid claims. The Lloyd’s Council may resolve to make payments from the central fund for the advancement and protection of policyholders, which could lead to additional or special contributions being payable by Lloyd’s members, including Talbot. This, in turn, could adversely affect Talbot and the Company.38The failure of Lloyd’s to satisfy the PRA’s annual solvency test could result in limitations on managing agents’ ability, including Talbot’s ability, to underwrite or the commencement of legal proceedings against Lloyd’s.The PRA requires Lloyd’s to satisfy an annual solvency test. The solvency requirement in essence measures whether Lloyd’s has sufficient assets in the aggregate to meet all outstanding liabilities of its members, both current and in run-off. If Lloyd’s fails to satisfy the test in any year, the PRA may require Lloyd’s to cease trading and/or its members to cease or reduce underwriting. In the event of Lloyd’s failing to meet any solvency requirement, either the Society of Lloyd’s or the PRA may apply to the court for a Lloyd’s Market Reorganization Order (“LMRO”). On the making of an order a “reorganization controller” is appointed, and for its duration, a moratorium is imposed preventing any proceedings or legal process from being commenced or continued against any party that is the subject of such an order, which, if made, would apply to the market as a whole, including members, former members, managing agents, members’ agents, Lloyd’s brokers, approved run-off companies and managing general agents unless individual parties are specifically excluded.A downgrade in Lloyd’s ratings would have an adverse effect on Syndicate 1183’s rating as well its standing among brokers and customers and cause its premiums and earnings to decrease.The ability of Lloyd’s syndicates to trade in certain classes of business at current levels is dependent on the maintenance of a satisfactory credit rating issued by a recognized rating agency. The financial security of the Lloyd’s market is regularly assessed by three independent rating agencies, A.M. Best, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings. Lloyd's current ratings are: A.M. Best: A, Positive Outlook; Standard & Poor's: A+, Stable Outlook; Fitch Ratings: AA-, Stable Outlook. Syndicate 1183 is also rated A, Positive Outlook, by A.M. Best. Syndicate 1183 benefits from Lloyd’s current ratings and would be adversely affected, along with all other syndicates at Lloyd's, if the current ratings were downgraded from their present levels.An increase in the charges paid by Talbot to participate in the Lloyd’s market could adversely affect Talbot’s financial and operating results.Lloyd’s imposes a number of charges on businesses operating in the Lloyd’s market, including, for example, annual subscriptions and central fund contributions for members and policy signing charges. The basis and amounts of charges may be varied by Lloyd’s and could adversely affect Talbot and the Company.An increase in the level or type of deposits required by U.S. Situs Trust Deeds to be maintained by Lloyd’s syndicates could result in Syndicate 1183 being required to make a cash call which could adversely affect Talbot’s financial performance.The U.S. Situs Trust Deeds require syndicates transacting certain types of business in the United States to maintain minimum deposits as protection for U.S. policyholders. These deposits represent the syndicates' estimates of unpaid claims liabilities (less premiums receivable) relating to this business, adjusted for provisions for potential bad debt on premiums earned but not received and for any anticipated profit on unearned premiums. No credit is generally allowed for potential reinsurance recoveries. The New York Insurance Department and the U.S. National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") currently require funding of 30% of gross liabilities in relation to insurance business classified as “Surplus Lines.” The “Credit for Reinsurance” trust fund is usually required to be funded at 100% of gross liabilities. The funds contained within the deposits are not ordinarily available to meet trading expenses. U.S. regulators may increase the level of funding required or change the requirements as to the nature of funding. Accordingly, in the event of a major claim arising in the United States, for example from a major catastrophe, syndicates participating in such U.S. business may be required to make cash calls on their members to meet claims payments and deposit funding obligations. This could adversely affect Talbot.Risks Related to Taxation Our non U.S companies may be subject to U.S. tax.We intend to operate in such a manner that none of our non-U.S. companies would be unintendedly considered engaged in a U.S. trade or business. No definitive standards, however, are provided by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), U.S. Treasury regulations or court decisions regarding activities that constitute the conduct of a U.S. trade or business. Because that determination is essentially factual, there can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) will not contend that we are engaged in a U.S. trade or business. If we were found to be so engaged, we could be subject to U.S. corporate income and branch profits tax on our earnings that are effectively connected to such U.S. trade or business.If the group company involved is entitled to the benefits of a U.S. income tax treaty (the “Treaty”), it would not be subject to U.S. income tax on any income protected by the Treaty unless that income is attributable to a permanent establishment in the U.S. The income tax treaty between the U.S. and Bermuda (the “Bermuda Treaty”) clearly applies to premium income, but may be construed as not protecting other income such as investment income. If any of the Company's Bermuda-based subsidiaries were found to be engaged in a trade or business in the U.S. and were entitled to the benefits of the Bermuda Treaty in general, but the 39Bermuda Treaty was found not to protect investment income, a portion of the relevant subsidiary's investment income could be subject to U.S. tax.U.S. persons who hold common shares may be subject to U.S. income taxation at ordinary income rates on our undistributed earnings and profits.Controlled Foreign Corporation Status: The Company should not be a controlled foreign corporation (“CFC”) because its organizational documents provide that if the common shares owned, directly, indirectly or by attribution, by any person would otherwise represent more than 9.09% of the aggregate voting power of all the Company’s common shares, the voting rights attached to those common shares will be reduced so that such person may not exercise and is not attributed more than 9.09% of the total voting power of the common shares. There can be no assurance, however, that the provisions of the Organizational Documents will operate as intended and that the Company will not be considered a CFC. If the Company were considered a CFC, any shareholder that is a U.S. person that owns directly, indirectly or by attribution, 10% or more of the voting power of the Company may be subject to current U.S. income taxation at ordinary income tax rates on all or a portion of the Company’s undistributed earnings and profits attributable to the Company's insurance and reinsurance income, including underwriting and investment income. Any gain realized on sale of common shares by such shareholder may also be taxed as a dividend to the extent of the Company’s earnings and profits attributed to such shares during the period that the shareholder held the shares and while the Company was a CFC (with certain adjustments).Related Person Insurance Income: If the related person insurance income (“RPII”) of any of the Company’s non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries were to equal or exceed 20% of that subsidiary’s gross insurance income in any taxable year, and U.S. persons were treated as owning 25% or more of the subsidiary’s stock, by vote or value, a U.S. person who directly or indirectly owns any common shares on the last day of such taxable year on which the 25% threshold is met would be required to include in income for U.S. federal income tax purposes that person’s ratable share of that subsidiary’s RPII for the taxable year. The amount to be included in income is determined as if the RPII were distributed proportionately to U.S. shareholders on that date, regardless of whether that income is distributed. The amount of RPII to be included in income is limited by such shareholder’s share of the subsidiary’s current-year earnings and profits, and possibly reduced by the shareholder’s share of prior year deficits in earnings and profits. The amount of RPII earned by a subsidiary will depend on several factors, including the identity of persons directly or indirectly insured or reinsured by that subsidiary. Although we do not believe that the 20% threshold will be met for our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries, some of the factors that might affect that determination in any period may be beyond our control. Consequently, we cannot assure that we will not exceed the RPII threshold in any taxable year.If a U.S. person disposes of shares in a non-U.S. insurance corporation that had RPII (even if the 20% threshold was not met) and the 25% threshold is met at any time during the five-year period ending on the date of disposition, and the U.S. person owned any shares at such time, any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as a dividend to the extent of the holder’s share of the corporation’s undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the holder owned the shares (possibly whether or not those earnings and profits are attributable to RPII). In addition, the shareholder will be required to comply with specified reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned. We believe that those rules should not apply to a disposition of common shares because the Company is not itself directly engaged in the insurance business. We cannot assure, however, that the IRS will not successfully assert that those rules apply to a disposition of common shares.U.S. persons who hold common shares will be subject to adverse tax consequences if the Company is considered a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes.If the Company is considered a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes, a U.S. holder who owns common shares will be subject to adverse tax consequences, including a greater tax liability than might otherwise apply and an interest charge on certain taxes that are deferred as a result of the Company’s non-U.S. status. We currently do not expect that the Company will be a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes in the current taxable year or the foreseeable future because, through Validus Reinsurance, Ltd., Talbot 2002 Underwriting Capital Ltd., Validus Reinsurance (Switzerland) Ltd and Talbot Underwriting Ltd., it intends to be predominantly engaged in the active conduct of a global insurance and reinsurance business. We cannot assure you, however, that the Company will not be deemed to be a PFIC by the IRS. No regulations currently exist regarding the application of the PFIC provisions to an insurance company.Changes in U.S. tax laws may be retroactive and could subject a U.S. holder of our common shares to other adverse tax consequences.The tax treatment of non-U.S. companies and their U.S. and non-U.S. insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries has been the subject of Congressional discussion and legislative proposals in the U.S. We cannot assure you that future legislative action will not increase the amount of U.S. tax payable by us.40In addition, the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations, including those regarding whether a company is engaged in a U.S. trade or business or is a PFIC, or whether U.S. holders would be required to include “subpart F income” or RPII in their gross income, are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis. The regulations regarding the application of the PFIC rules to insurance companies and the regulations regarding RPII are still in proposed form and we cannot be certain if, when, or in what form, such regulations or pronouncements may be finalized, and whether such guidance will have a retroactive effect.The Obama administration’s proposed budget for Fiscal Year 2017 could disallow a deduction for premiums paid for reinsurance.Insurance companies are generally allowed a deduction for premiums paid for reinsurance. The proposed U.S. budget for fiscal year 2017 contains a proposal that denies an insurance company a deduction for reinsurance premiums paid to affiliated foreign companies to the extent that the foreign reinsurer is not subject to U.S. income tax with respect to the premiums received. Furthermore, the proposed law would exclude from the insurance company’s income any return premiums, ceding commissions or reinsurance recovered with respect to reinsurance policies for which a premium deduction is denied. Based on the information currently available to us, it is uncertain to what extent this legislation will adversely impact us.We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after March 31, 2035, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.Under current Bermuda law, we are not subject to tax on income or capital gains. We have received from the Minister of Finance under The Exempted Undertaking Tax Protection Act 1966, as amended, an assurance that, in the event that Bermuda enacts legislation imposing tax computed on profits, income, any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance, then the imposition of any such tax shall not be applicable to us or to any of our operations or shares, debentures or other obligations, until March 31, 2035. We could be subject to taxes in Bermuda after that date. This assurance is subject to the provision that it is not to be construed to prevent the application of any tax or duty to such persons as are ordinarily resident in Bermuda or to prevent the application of any tax payable in accordance with the provisions of the Land Tax Act 1967 or otherwise payable in relation to any property leased to us. The Company's Bermuda-domiciled subsidiaries each pay annual Bermuda government fees and each Bermuda subsidiary licensed insurer and reinsurer pays an annual insurance license fee. In addition, all entities employing individuals in Bermuda are required to pay a payroll tax and there are other sundry taxes payable, directly or indirectly, to the Bermuda government.The impact of Bermuda's letter of commitment to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development ("OECD") to eliminate harmful tax practices is uncertain and could adversely affect our tax status in Bermuda.The OECD has published reports and launched a global initiative among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of tax havens and preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. Bermuda was not listed in the most recent report as an uncooperative tax haven jurisdiction because it had previously committed to eliminate harmful tax practices, to embrace international tax standards for transparency, to exchange information and to eliminate an environment that attracts business with no substantial domestic activity. We are not able to predict what changes will arise from the commitment or whether such changes will subject us to additional taxes.Our non-U.K. companies may be subject to U.K. tax. We intend to operate in such a manner that none of our non-U.K. companies would be resident in the U.K. for tax purposes. A company incorporated outside the U.K. will be deemed resident if its business is centrally managed and controlled from the U.K. The concept of central management and control is not defined in statute but derives from case law and the determination of residence is subjective, therefore Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs ("HMRC") might contend successfully that one or more of our companies are resident in the U.K.Furthermore, we intend to operate in such a manner that none of our non-U.K. companies carry on a trade wholly or partly in the U.K. Case law has held that whether or not a trade is being carried on is a matter of fact and emphasis is placed on where operations take place from which the profits in substance arise. This judgment is subjective. The HRMC might contend successfully that one or more of our non-U.K. companies, is conducting business in the U.K. For tax purposes, a non-U.K. tax resident company will only be subject to corporation tax if it carries on a trade in the U.K. through a permanent establishment. However, that company will still have an income tax liability if it carries on a trade in the U.K., even absent a permanent establishment, unless that company is treaty-protected.We may become subject to taxation on profits generated in Bermuda as a result of the OECD's final recommendations on Base erosion and profit shifting ("BEPS")In 2015, the OECD published final recommendations on BEPS. These recommendations propose the development of rules to prevent base erosion and profit shifting which may drive fundamental changes in the perception of tax structuring and transfer pricing by tax authorities. The recommendations include adopting transfer pricing rules or special measures to ensure that returns will not accrue to an entity solely because it has contractually assumed risks or has provided capital. BEPS will likely put a much greater 41emphasis on the location of individuals and their contributions towards profit generation. This would notably result in a significant change to the existing transfer pricing rules and could potentially have a significant impact on the allocation of taxable profits throughout the Company. Furthermore, these developments might also result in significant changes to the rules that govern the creation of a taxable presence in a foreign country. As a consequence, profits currently generated in Bermuda may become subject to taxation outside Bermuda.Our non-Swiss companies may be subject to taxation in Switzerland.We intend to operate in such a manner that none of our non-Swiss companies would be resident in Switzerland for tax purposes. A company incorporated outside Switzerland will be deemed resident if its business is centrally managed and controlled from Switzerland. However, the analysis is factual and the Swiss tax authorities might contend successfully that one or more of our non-Swiss group companies are resident in Switzerland. Furthermore, a group company incorporated and managed outside of Switzerland should not be liable for Swiss corporation taxation unless it carries on business through a permanent establishment in Switzerland. From a Swiss tax perspective, a permanent establishment is a fixed place of business through which a company performs business activities that are considered as being quantitatively and qualitatively significant by the tax authorities, and may include a branch, office, agency or place of management. As of the date of this Annual Report, the Validus group intends to operate in such a manner so that none of our non-Swiss companies will carry on business through a permanent establishment in Switzerland. If any of our companies were to be treated as carrying on business in Switzerland through a branch or agency or of having a permanent establishment in Switzerland, our results of operations could be adversely affected.Diverted Profit Tax in the U.K.The U.K. Authorities enacted a new Diverted Profits Tax as of April 1, 2015 on profits of multinationals artificially diverted from the U.K. The tax rate will be 25%. Diverted Profits Tax will apply in two situations; (a) where a foreign company has artificially avoided having a taxable presence in the U.K, or (b) where a group has entered into a tax advantageous structure or transaction that lacks economic substance. Although the legislation intends to address aggressive tax planning which is artificial or lacks economic substance, the legislation has a wider reach. The Validus group has significant U.K. operations and several intragroup reinsurance agreements. We believe that these transactions have economic substance and should fall outside the intended reach of the Diverted Profit Tax. However, we are not able to predict the financial impact of the new Diverted Profits Tax and such impact may be adverse.Risks Related to Laws and Regulations Applicable to Us If we become subject to insurance statutes and regulations in addition to the statutes and regulations that currently apply to us, there could be a significant and negative impact on our business.We currently conduct our business in a manner such that we expect the Company will not be subject to insurance and/or reinsurance licensing requirements or regulations in any jurisdiction other than Bermuda, Switzerland, the United States, and, with respect to Talbot, the U.K. and jurisdictions to which Lloyd’s is subject. See “Business—Regulation.” Although we do not currently intend to engage in activities which would require us to comply with insurance and reinsurance licensing requirements of other jurisdictions, should we choose to engage in activities that would require us to become licensed in such jurisdictions, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so or that we will be able to do so in a timely manner. The insurance and reinsurance regulatory framework has recently become subject to increased scrutiny in many jurisdictions. Governmental authorities in both the U.S. and worldwide have become increasingly interested in the potential risks posed by the insurance industry as a whole, and to commercial and financial systems in general. For example, the U.S. Congress and the current administration have made, or called for consideration of, several additional proposals relating to a variety of issues with respect to financial regulation reform, including the Dodd-Frank Act that was signed into law by President Obama on July 21, 2010. The Dodd-Frank Act represented a comprehensive overhaul of the regulation of the financial services industry within the United States and established a Federal Insurance Office under the U.S. Treasury Department to monitor all aspects of the insurance industry and of lines of business other than certain health insurance, certain long-term care insurance and crop insurance. The director of the Federal Insurance Office has the ability to recommend that an insurance company or an insurance holding company be subject to heightened prudential standards under the supervision of the Federal Reserve. In addition, some state legislators have considered or enacted laws that will alter and likely increase state regulation of insurance and reinsurance companies and holding companies. Furthermore, the NAIC, which is an association of the insurance commissioners of all 50 states and the District of Columbia, regularly reexamines existing laws and regulations. 42Government regulators are generally concerned with the protection of policyholders rather than other constituencies, such as our shareholders. We are not able to predict the exact nature, timing or scope of changes in laws and regulations to which we are or may become subject; however, compliance with such laws and regulations may result in additional costs which may adversely impact our results of operations.Our international business is subject to applicable laws and regulations relating to sanctions and foreign corrupt practices, the violation of which could adversely affect our operations.We must comply with all applicable economic sanctions and anti-bribery laws and regulations of the United States and other foreign jurisdictions where we operate, including the United Kingdom and the European Community. United States laws and regulations applicable to us include the economic trade sanctions laws and regulations administered by the United States Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) as well as certain laws administered by the United States Department of State. In addition, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and other anti-bribery laws such as the UK Bribery Act that generally bar corrupt payments or unreasonable gifts to foreign governments or officials. Although we have policies and controls in place that are designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, it is possible that an employee or intermediary could fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations. In such event, we could be exposed to civil penalties, criminal penalties and other sanctions, including fines or other punitive actions. In addition, such violations could damage our business and/or our reputation. Such criminal or civil sanctions, penalties, other sanctions, and damage to our business and/or reputation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common SharesBecause Validus Holdings, Ltd. is a holding company and substantially all of our operations are conducted by our main operating subsidiaries our ability to meet any ongoing cash requirements and to pay dividends will depend on our ability to obtain cash dividends or other cash payments or obtain loans from these subsidiaries.We conduct substantially all of our operations through subsidiaries. Our ability to meet our ongoing cash requirements, including any debt service payments or other expenses, and pay dividends on our common shares in the future, will depend on our ability to obtain cash dividends or other cash payments or obtain loans from these subsidiaries and as a result will depend on the financial condition of these subsidiaries. The inability of these subsidiaries to pay dividends in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our cash requirements could have a material adverse effect on us and the value of our common shares. Each of these subsidiaries is a separate and distinct legal entity that has no obligation to pay any dividends or to lend or advance us funds and may be restricted from doing so by contract, including other financing arrangements, charter provisions or applicable legal and regulatory requirements or rating agency constraints. The payment of dividends by these subsidiaries to us is limited under Bermuda, U.K. and U.S. laws and regulations. The Insurance Act provides that our Bermuda Class 3B and 4 insurance subsidiaries may not declare or pay in any financial year dividends of more than 25% of their total statutory capital and surplus (as shown on their statutory balance sheets in relation to the previous financial year) unless they file an affidavit with the BMA at least seven days prior to the payment signed by at least two directors and such subsidiary’s principal representative, stating that in their opinion such subsidiaries will continue to satisfy the required margins following declaration of those dividends, though there is no additional requirement for BMA approval. In addition, before reducing its total statutory capital by 15% or more (as set out in its previous years’ statutory financial statements) each of our Class 3A and Class 4 insurance subsidiaries must make application to the BMA for permission to do so, such application to consist of an affidavit signed by at least two directors and such subsidiary’s principal representative stating that in their opinion the proposed reduction in capital will not cause such subsidiaries to fail to meet its relevant margins, and such other information as the BMA may require. Each of our Class 3 insurance subsidiaries must make application to the BMA before reducing its total statutory capital by 15% or more and should provide such information as the BMA may require. During 2016, the Bermuda regulated subsidiaries have the ability to distribute up to $1,030.8 million of unrestricted net assets as dividend payments and/or return of capital to Validus Holdings, Ltd. without prior regulatory approval.Talbot manages Syndicate 1183 (the “Syndicate”) at Lloyd’s. Lloyd’s requires Talbot to hold cash and investments in trust for the benefit of policyholders either as Syndicate trust funds or as Funds at Lloyd’s (“FAL”). Talbot may not distribute funds from the Syndicate into its corporate member’s trust accounts unless, firstly, they are represented by audited profits and, secondly, the Syndicate has adequate future cash flow to service its policyholders. Talbot’s corporate member may not distribute funds to Talbot’s unregulated bank or investment accounts unless they are represented by a surplus of cash and investments over the FAL requirement. Additionally, U.K. company law prohibits Talbot’s corporate name from declaring a dividend to the Company unless it has profits available for distribution. The determination of whether a company has profits available for distribution is based on its accumulated realized profits less its accumulated realized losses. While the U.K. insurance regulatory laws do not impose statutory restrictions on a corporate name’s ability to declare a dividend, the FCA and PRA rules require maintenance of each insurance company’s solvency margin within its jurisdiction.Western World's operating subsidiaries are domiciled in the state of New Hampshire. New Hampshire insurance laws limit the amount of dividends Western World may pay to the Company in any 12 month period without prior approval of the New Hampshire 43State Insurance Department. These limitations are based on the lesser of: a maximum of 10% of prior year end statutory surplus as determined under statutory accounting practices or the net income, not including realized capital gains, for the 12-month period ending December 31, next preceding, but shall not include pro rata distributions of any class of the insurer's own securities. In determining whether a dividend or distribution is extraordinary, an insurer may carry forward net income from the previous two calendar years that has not already been paid out as dividends. This carry-forward shall be computed by taking the net income from the second and third preceding calendar years, not including realized capital gains, less dividends paid in the second and immediate preceding calendar years. During 2016, the maximum dividend that may be paid to the Company by Western World without obtaining prior approval is $15.1 million.The timing and amount of any cash dividends on our common shares are at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon our results of operations and cash flows, our financial position and capital requirements, general business conditions, legal, tax, regulatory, rating agency and contractual constraints or restrictions and any other factors that our Board of Directors deems relevant. In addition, the indentures governing our Junior Subordinated Deferrable Debentures would restrict us from declaring or paying dividends on our common shares if we are downgraded by A.M. Best to a financial strength rating of “B” (Fair) or below or if A.M. Best withdraws its financial strength rating on any of our material insurance subsidiaries.Future sales of our common shares and grants of restricted shares may affect the market price of our common shares and the future exercise of options may result in immediate and substantial dilution of the common shares.As of December 31, 2015 (but without giving effect to unvested restricted shares), we had 82,900,617 common shares outstanding. Approximately 3,968,129 of these outstanding shares were subject to the volume limitations and other conditions of Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, which we refer to as the “Securities Act.” In addition, we have filed one or more registration statements on Form S-8 under the Securities Act to register common shares issued or reserved for issuance under our Amended and Restated 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan (the “Plan”). The number of common shares that have been reserved for issuance under the Plan is equal to 2,753,292 of which 1,971,922 shares remain available as of December 31, 2015. We cannot predict what effect, if any, future sales of our common shares, or the availability of common shares for future sale, will have on the market price of our common shares. Sales of substantial amounts of our common shares in the public market, or the perception that sales of this type could occur, could depress the market price of our common shares and may make it more difficult for our shareholders to sell their common shares at a time and price that they deem appropriate.Our Bye-laws authorize our Board of Directors to issue one or more series of common shares and preferred shares without shareholder approval. Specifically, we have an authorized share capital of 571,428,571 shares ($0.175 par value per share), which can consist of common shares and/or preference shares, as determined by our Board of Directors. The Board of Directors has the right to issue the remaining shares without obtaining any approval from our shareholders and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions thereof, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption, liquidation preferences and the number of shares constituting any series or designation of such series. Any issuance of our preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our common shares and could have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing the payment of any dividends (including any liquidating dividends) and any change in control of us. If a significant number of either common or preferred shares are issued, it may cause the market price of our common shares to decline.Our classified board structure may prevent a change in our control.Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes of directors. Each year one class of directors is elected by the shareholders for a three year term. The staggered terms of our directors may reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an attempt at a change in control, even though a tender offer or change in control might be in the best interest of our shareholders.44There are provisions in our Bye-laws that reduce the voting rights of voting common shares that are held by a person or group to the extent that such person or group holds more than 9.09% of the aggregate voting power of all common shares entitled to vote on a matter.In general, and except as provided below, shareholders have one vote for each common share held by them and are entitled to vote at all meetings of shareholders. However, if, and for so long as, the common shares of a shareholder, including any votes conferred by “controlled shares” (as defined below), would otherwise represent more than 9.09% of the aggregate voting power of all common shares entitled to vote on a matter, including an election of directors, the votes conferred by such shares will be reduced by whatever amount is necessary such that, after giving effect to any such reduction (and any other reductions in voting power required by our Bye-laws), the votes conferred by such shares represent 9.09% of the aggregate voting power of all common shares entitled to vote on such matter. “Controlled shares” include, among other things, all shares that a person is deemed to own directly, indirectly or constructively (within the meaning of Section 958 of the Code, or Section 13(d) (3) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”)). At December 31, 2015, there were 85,640,063 common shares, of which 7,784,681 common shares would confer votes that represent 9.09% of the aggregate voting power of all common shares entitled to vote generally at an election of directors. An investor who does not hold, and is not deemed under the provisions of our Bye-laws to own, any of our common shares may therefore purchase up to such amount without being subject to voting cutback provisions in our Bye-laws.In addition, we have the authority under our Bye-laws to request information from any shareholder for the purpose of determining ownership of controlled shares by such shareholder.There are regulatory limitations on the ownership and transfer of our common shares which could result in the delay or denial of any transfers shareholders might seek to make.The BMA must approve all issuances and transfers of securities of a Bermuda exempt company except where a general permission applies under the Exchange Control Act 1972 and related regulations. We have received permission from the BMA to issue our common shares and securities, and for the free transferability of our common shares and securities, as long as the common shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange or other appointed exchange, to and among persons who are residents and non-residents of Bermuda for exchange control purposes. Any other transfers remain subject to approval by the BMA and such approval may be denied or delayed. Additionally issuances and transfers of voting or controlling shares of Bermuda registered insurance subsidiaries requires application to, or notification to, the BMA Insurance Division (depending on the circumstances) pursuant to the Insurance Act.A shareholder of our Company may have greater difficulties in protecting its interests than as a shareholder of a U.S. corporation.The Companies Act 1981 (the “Companies Act”), which applies to us, differs in material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. Taken together with the provisions of our Bye-laws, some of these differences may result in a shareholder having greater difficulties in protecting its interests as a shareholder of our company than it would have as a shareholder of a U.S. corporation. This affects, among other things, the circumstances under which transactions involving an interested director are voidable, whether an interested director can be held accountable for any benefit realized in a transaction with our Company, what approvals are required for business combinations by our Company with a large shareholder or a wholly owned subsidiary, what rights a shareholder may have as a shareholder to enforce specified provisions of the Companies Act or our Bye-laws, and the circumstances under which we may indemnify our directors and officers.We are a Bermuda company and it may be difficult for our shareholders to enforce judgments against us or against our directors and executive officers.We were incorporated under the laws of Bermuda and our business is based in Bermuda. In addition, certain of our directors and officers reside outside the United States, and a portion of our assets and the assets of such persons may be located in jurisdictions outside the United States. As such, it may be difficult or impossible to effect service of process within the United States upon us or those persons, or to recover against us or them on judgments of U.S. courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Further, no claim may be brought in Bermuda against us or our directors and officers in the first instance for violation of U.S. federal securities laws because these laws have no extraterritorial application under Bermuda law and do not have force of law in Bermuda; however, a Bermuda court may impose civil liability, including the possibility of monetary damages, on us or our directors and officers if the facts alleged in a complaint constitute or give rise to a cause of action under Bermuda law. Currently, of our executive officers, Kean Driscoll, Jeffrey Sangster, Robert Kuzloski, Michael Moore and Lixin Zeng reside in Bermuda, Edward Noonan, John Hendrickson, Romel Salam, Andrew Kudera and Jonathan Ritz maintain residences in both Bermuda and the United States and Rupert Atkin resides in the United Kingdom. Of our directors, Edward Noonan and John Hendrickson maintain residences in both Bermuda and the United States, Jean-Marie Nessi resides in France, Michael Carpenter resides in the United Kingdom and the remainder reside in the United States.45We have been advised by Bermuda counsel that there is doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our directors and officers, predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, or original actions brought in Bermuda against us or such persons predicated solely upon U.S. federal securities laws. Further, we have been advised by Bermuda counsel that there is no treaty in effect between the United States and Bermuda providing for the enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts in civil and commercial matters, and there are grounds upon which Bermuda courts may decline to enforce the judgments of U.S. courts. Some remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions, including some remedies available under the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be allowed in Bermuda courts as contrary to public policy in Bermuda. Because judgments of U.S. courts are not automatically enforceable in Bermuda, it may be difficult for our shareholders to recover against us based upon such judgments.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.