Item 1A. Risk Factors Oil and natural gas prices are volatile, and a decline in oil and natural gas prices could significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. Our revenues, profitability and cash flow depend upon the prices and demand for oil and natural gas. The markets for these commodities are very volatile. Oil and natural gas prices can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors that are beyond our control. These factors include, among others: • regional, domestic and foreign supply, and perceptions of supply, of oil and natural gas; • the price of foreign imports; • U.S. and worldwide political and economic conditions; • the level of demand, and perceptions of demand, for oil and natural gas; • weather conditions and seasonal trends; • anticipated future prices of oil and natural gas, alternative fuels and other commodities; • technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply; • the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of pipeline infrastructure, treating, transportation and refining capacity; • acts of force majeure; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation; • energy conservation and environmental measures; and • the price and availability of alternative fuels. For oil, from 2007 through 2010, the highest monthly NYMEX settled price was $134.62 per Bbl and the lowest was $33.87 per Bbl. For natural gas, from 2007 through 2010, the highest monthly NYMEX settled price was $13.11 per MMBtu and the lowest was $2.84 per MMBtu. In addition, the market price of oil and natural gas is generally higher in the winter months than during other months of the year due to increased demand for oil and natural gas for heating purposes during the winter season. Lower oil and natural gas prices may not only decrease our revenues on a per share basis, but also may reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. This also may result in our having to make substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. Future price declines may result in further reductions of the asset carrying values of our oil and natural gas properties. We utilize the full cost method of accounting for costs related to our oil and natural gas properties. Under this accounting method, all costs for both productive and nonproductive properties are capitalized and amortized on an aggregate basis over the estimated lives of the properties using the unit-of-production method. However, 32 Table of Contents the amount of these costs that can be carried as capitalized assets is subject to a ceiling, which limits such pooled costs to the aggregate of the present value of future net revenues of proved oil and natural gas reserves attributable to proved properties, discounted at 10%, plus the lower of cost or market value of unevaluated properties. The full cost ceiling is evaluated at the end of each quarter using the most recent 12-month average prices for oil and natural gas, adjusted for the impact of derivatives accounted for as cash flow hedges. In the event any of our derivatives are accounted for as cash flow hedges, the impact of these derivative contracts will be included in the determination of our full cost ceiling. We had no full cost ceiling impairments during the year ended December 31, 2010, while our ceiling limitations during 2009 resulted in non-cash impairment charges totaling $1,693.3 million. Future declines in oil and natural gas prices, without other mitigating circumstances, could result in additional losses of future net revenues, including losses attributable to quantities that cannot be economically produced at lower prices, which could cause us to make additional write-downs of capitalized costs of our oil and natural gas properties and non-cash charges against future earnings. The amount of such future write-downs and non-cash charges could be substantial. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness and other obligations and commitments, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business. As of December 31, 2010, our total indebtedness was $2.9 billion, and we had preferred stock outstanding with an aggregate liquidation preference of $765.0 million. Our substantial level of indebtedness and the dividends payable on our preferred stock outstanding increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness and/or the preferred stock dividends. Our indebtedness and outstanding preferred stock, combined with our lease and other financial obligations and contractual commitments, could have other important consequences to us. For example, it could: • make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged and, therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our indebtedness prevents us from pursuing; and • limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other purposes. Any of the above listed factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions could materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. Our current estimates of reserves could change, potentially in material amounts, in the future. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex and inherently imprecise. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to production rates and economic factors such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures and availability of funds. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in this report. See “Business — Our Businesses and Primary Operations” in Item 1 of this report for information about our oil and natural gas reserves. 33 Table of Contents Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves most likely will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in this report, which in turn could have a negative effect on the value of our assets. In addition, from time to time in the future, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves, potentially in material amounts, to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves will not necessarily be the same as the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. We base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on 12-month average prices and costs. Actual future net cash flows from our oil and natural gas properties also will be affected by factors such as: • actual prices we receive for oil and natural gas; • the accuracy of our reserve estimates; • the actual cost of development and production expenditures; • the amount and timing of actual production; • supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; and • changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, we use a 10% discount factor when calculating discounted future net cash flows which may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and natural gas industry in general. Unless we replace our oil and natural gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production, and therefore our cash flow and income, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production at acceptable costs. We will not know conclusively prior to drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present in sufficient quantities to be economically viable. The use of seismic data and other technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area does not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or natural gas will be present in sufficient quantities to be economically viable. Even if sufficient amounts of oil or natural gas exist, we may damage the potentially productive hydrocarbon bearing formation or experience mechanical difficulties while drilling or completing the well, resulting in a reduction in production from the well or abandonment of the well. During 2010, we participated in drilling a total of 623 gross wells, of which 29 were identified as dry wells. If we drill additional wells that we identify as dry wells in our current and future prospects, our drilling success rate may decline and materially harm our business. In summary, the cost of drilling, completing and operating any well is often uncertain, and new wells may not be productive. 34 Table of Contents Volatility in the capital markets could affect our ability to obtain capital, cause us to incur additional financing expense or affect the value of certain assets. In recent periods, global financial markets and economic conditions have been disrupted and volatile due to multiple factors, including significant write-offs in the financial services sector and weak economic conditions. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial and/or operating strength. Due to this volatility, for many companies the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has been greater in recent periods than has historically been the case. Continued market volatility may from time to time adversely affect our ability to access capital and credit markets or to obtain funds at low interest rates or on other advantageous terms. These factors may adversely affect our business, results of operations or liquidity. These factors may adversely affect the value of certain of our assets and our ability to draw on our senior credit facility. Adverse credit and capital market conditions may require us to impair the carrying value of assets associated with derivative contracts to account for non-performance by counterparties to those contracts. If financial institutions that have extended credit commitments to us are adversely affected by volatile conditions of the United States and international capital markets, they may become unable to fund borrowings under their credit commitments to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to borrow additional funds, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures and other corporate purposes. Properties that we buy may not produce as projected, and we may be unable to determine reserve potential, identify liabilities associated with the properties or obtain protection from sellers against them. Our reviews of properties we acquire are inherently incomplete because an in-depth review of every individual property involved in each acquisition generally is not feasible. Even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as soil or ground water contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, we may assume certain environmental and other risks and liabilities in connection with acquired properties, and such risks and liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The development of our proved undeveloped reserves may take longer and may require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. As of December 31, 2010, 59.2% of our total reserves were proved undeveloped reserves. Development of these reserves may take longer and require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Therefore, ultimate recoveries from these fields may not match current expectations. Delays in the development of our reserves or increases in costs to drill and develop such reserves will reduce the PV-10 value of our estimated proved undeveloped reserves and future net revenues estimated for such reserves. A significant portion of our operations are located in West Texas, Northwest Oklahoma and Kansas, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in a limited number of major geographic areas. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 78.2% of our proved reserves and approximately 77.6% of our annual production were located in the Permian Basin, Mid-Continent and WTO. This concentration could disproportionately expose us to operational and regulatory risk in these areas. This relative lack of diversification in location of our key operations could expose us to adverse developments in these areas or the oil and natural gas markets, including, for example, transportation or treatment capacity constraints, curtailment of production or treatment plant closures for scheduled maintenance. These factors could have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows than if our properties were more diversified. 35 Table of Contents Our development and exploration operations require substantial capital, and we may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a loss of properties and a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We make substantial capital expenditures in our business and operations for the exploration, development, production and acquisition of oil and natural gas reserves. Historically, we have financed capital expenditures primarily with proceeds from asset sales and from the sale of equity, debt and cash generated by operations. We will finance our future capital expenditures with the sale of equity and debt securities, cash flow from operations, asset sales and current and new financing arrangements. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including: • our proved reserves; • the level of oil and natural gas we are able to produce from existing wells; • the prices at which oil and natural gas are sold; and • our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves. If our revenues decrease as a result of lower oil and natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. In order to fund our capital expenditures, we may seek additional financing. However, our senior credit facility contains covenants limiting our ability to incur additional indebtedness, which our lenders may withhold in their sole discretion. Our senior note indentures also contain covenants that may restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness if we do not satisfy certain financial metrics. If we are unable to obtain additional financing, it may be necessary for us to reduce or suspend our capital expenditures. Continuing disruptions in the global financial and capital markets also could adversely affect our ability to obtain debt or equity financing on favorable terms, or at all. The failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to exploration and development of our prospects, which in turn could lead to a possible loss of properties and a decline in our oil and natural gas reserves. The agreements governing our existing indebtedness have restrictions, financial covenants and borrowing base redeterminations which could adversely affect our operations. Our senior credit facility and the indentures governing our senior notes restrict our ability to obtain additional financing, make investments, lease equipment, sell assets and engage in business combinations. We also are required to comply with certain financial covenants and ratios. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants in the future is uncertain and will be affected by the levels of cash flow from our operations and events or circumstances beyond our control. If commodity prices decline, this could adversely affect our ability to meet such restrictions and covenants. Our failure to comply with any of the restrictions and covenants under the senior credit facility, senior notes or other debt financing could result in a default under those instruments, which could cause all of our existing indebtedness to be immediately due and payable. Our senior credit facility limits the amounts we can borrow to a borrowing base amount. The borrowing base is subject to review semi-annually; however, the lenders reserve the right to have one additional re-determination of the borrowing base per calendar year. Unscheduled re-determinations may be made at our request, but are limited to two requests per year. Borrowing base determinations are based upon proved developed producing reserves, proved developed non-producing reserves and proved undeveloped reserves. Outstanding borrowings exceeding the borrowing base must be repaid immediately, or we must pledge other oil and natural gas properties as additional collateral. Because of this, we may not have the financial resources in the future to make any mandatory principal prepayments under the senior credit facility, which are required, for example, when the committed line of credit is exceeded, proceeds of asset sales in new oil and natural gas properties are not reinvested, or indebtedness that is not permitted by the terms of the senior credit facility is incurred. If the indebtedness under our senior credit facility and senior notes were to be accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full. 36 Table of Contents Our derivative activities could result in financial losses and could reduce our earnings. To achieve a more predictable cash flow and to reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas, we currently have, and may in the future, enter into derivative contracts for a portion of our oil and natural gas production, including collars, basis swaps and fixed-price swaps. As of December 31, 2010, we had oil price swaps of 8,288 MBbls at an average price of $86.08 per MBbl for 2011, 9,547 MBbls at an average price of $87.10 per MBbl for 2012 and 5,384 MBbls at an average price of $88.77 per MBbl for 2013. We also had natural gas price swaps of 59.6 Bcf at an average price of $4.69 per Mcf in place for 2011 and 26.8 Bcf at an average price of $5.15 per Mcf for 2012. The Company also has natural gas basis swaps in place through 2013 for 232.1 Bcf at an average price of $0.51 per Mcf and natural gas collars in place through 2015 for 3.2 Bcf with an average floor price of $4.00 and an average ceiling price of $7.66. We have not and do not plan to designate any of our derivative contracts as hedges for accounting purposes and, as a result, record all derivative contracts on our balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of our derivative contracts are recognized in current period earnings. Accordingly, our earnings may fluctuate significantly as a result of changes in fair value of our derivative contracts. Derivative contracts also expose us to the risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when: • production is less than expected; • the counterparty to the derivative contract defaults on its contract obligations; or • there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the derivative contract and actual prices received. In addition, these types of derivative contracts limit the benefit we would receive from increases in the prices for oil and natural gas. All of our consolidated drilling and services revenues are derived from companies in the oil and natural gas industry. Companies to which we provide drilling and related services are affected by the oil and natural gas industry risks mentioned above. Market prices of oil and natural gas, limited access to capital and reductions in capital expenditures could result in oil and natural gas companies canceling or curtailing their drilling programs, which could reduce the demand for our drilling and related services. Any prolonged reduction in the overall level of exploration and development activities, whether resulting from changes in oil and natural gas prices or otherwise, could impact our drilling and services segment by negatively affecting: • revenues, cash flow and profitability; • our ability to retain skilled rig personnel whom we would need in the event of an upturn in the demand for drilling and related services; and • the fair value of our rig fleet. A significant decrease in natural gas production in our areas of operations, due to declines in production from existing wells, depressed commodity prices or otherwise, would adversely affect our ability to satisfy certain contractual obligations and revenues and cash flow from our midstream gas services segment. In June 2009, we sold an entity, Piñon Gathering Company, LLC (“PGC”), holding our gathering and compression assets located in the Piñon Field, which is part of the WTO in Pecos County, Texas, to an unaffiliated third party. In conjunction with the sale, we entered into a gas gathering agreement pursuant to which we dedicated our Piñon Field acreage to PGC for gathering services for 20 years. During that period, we have minimum throughput and delivery obligations to PGC. In addition, we continue to construct gathering and compression assets in the Piñon Field. Most of the reserves supporting our contractual obligations to PGC and our own midstream assets are operated by our exploration and production segment. A material decrease in natural gas production in our areas of operation would result in a decline in the volume of natural gas delivered to 37 Table of Contents PGC and our pipelines and facilities for gathering, transporting and treating. We have no control over many factors affecting production activity, including prevailing and projected energy prices, demand for hydrocarbons, the level of reserves, geological considerations, governmental regulation and the availability and cost of capital. We are obligated to pay minimum fees under the gas gathering agreement with PGC if we do not satisfy the contractual throughput and delivery commitments to PGC, due, for example, to our failure to connect new wells to PGC’s gathering systems or when there is a decline in the amount of natural gas that we produce from the Piñon Field. In addition, if we fail to connect new wells to our own gathering systems, the amount of natural gas we gather, transport and treat will decline substantially over time and could, upon exhaustion of the current wells, cause us to abandon our gathering systems and, possibly cease gathering, transporting and treating operations. Many of our prospects in the WTO may contain natural gas that is high in CO2 content, which can negatively affect our economics. The reservoirs of many of our prospects in the WTO may contain natural gas that is high in CO2 content. The natural gas produced from these reservoirs must be treated for the removal of CO2 prior to marketing. If we cannot obtain sufficient capacity at treatment facilities for our natural gas with a high CO2 concentration, or if the cost to obtain such capacity significantly increases, we could be forced to delay production and development or experience increased production costs. We will not know the amount of CO2 that we will encounter in any well until it is drilled. As a result, sometimes we encounter CO2 levels in our wells that are higher than expected. Since the treatment expenses are incurred on a Mcf basis, we will incur a higher effective treating cost per MMBtu of natural gas sold for natural gas with a higher CO2 content. As a result, high CO2 gas wells must produce at much higher rates than low CO2 gas wells to be economic, especially in a low natural gas price environment. Furthermore, when we treat the gas for the removal of CO2, some of the methane is used to run the treatment plant as fuel gas and other methane and heavier hydrocarbons, such as ethane, propane and butane, cannot be separated from the CO2 and is lost. This is known as plant shrink. Historically our plant shrink has been approximately 14% in the WTO. After giving effect to plant shrink, as many as 3.5 Mcf of high CO2 natural gas must be produced to sell one MMBtu of natural gas. We report our volumes of natural gas reserves and production net of CO2 volumes that are removed prior to sales. Our use of 2-D and 3-D seismic data is subject to interpretation and may not accurately identify the presence of oil and natural gas. In addition, the use of such technology requires greater predrilling expenditures, which could adversely affect the results of our drilling operations. A significant aspect of our exploration and development plan involves seismic data. Even when properly used and interpreted, 2-D and 3-D seismic data and visualization techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators and do not enable the interpreter to know whether hydrocarbons are present in those structures. Other geologists and petroleum professionals, when studying the same seismic data, may have significantly different interpretations than our professionals. In addition, the use of 2-D and 3-D seismic and other advanced technologies requires greater predrilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies, and we could incur losses due to such expenditures. As a result, our drilling activities may not be geologically successful or economical, and our overall drilling success rate or our drilling success rate for activities in a particular area may not improve. We may often gather 2-D and 3-D seismic data over large areas. Our interpretation of seismic data delineates for us those portions of an area that we believe are desirable for drilling. Therefore, we may choose not to acquire option or lease rights prior to acquiring seismic data, and in many cases, we may identify hydrocarbon indicators before seeking option or lease rights in the location. If we are not able to lease those locations on acceptable terms, we will have made substantial expenditures to acquire and analyze 2-D and 3-D data without having an opportunity to attempt to benefit from those expenditures. 38 Table of Contents Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our drilling and operating activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that we will not discover commercially productive reservoirs. Drilling for oil and natural gas can be unprofitable if dry wells are drilled and if productive wells do not produce sufficient revenues to return a profit. In addition, our drilling and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of other factors, including: • delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements including permitting; • unusual or unexpected geological formations and miscalculations; • shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel; • equipment malfunctions, failures or accidents; • lack of available gathering facilities or delays in construction of gathering facilities; • lack of available capacity on interconnecting transmission pipelines; • unexpected operational events and drilling conditions; • pipe or cement failures; • casing collapses; • pressures, fires and blowouts; • lost or damaged drilling and service tools; • loss of drilling fluid circulation; • uncontrollable flows of oil and natural gas, water or drilling fluids; • natural disasters; • environmental hazards, such as oil and natural gas leaks, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases; • adverse weather conditions and natural disasters; • reductions in oil and natural gas prices; • oil and natural gas property title problems; and • market limitations for oil and natural gas. Any of these risks can cause substantial losses, including personal injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution, environmental contamination or loss of wells and regulatory fines or penalties. Insurance against all operational risks is not available to us. Additionally, we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the perceived risks presented. We could incur losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts exceeding existing insurance coverage. The occurrence of an event that is not covered in full or in part by insurance could have a material adverse impact on our business activities, financial condition and results of operations. The high cost or unavailability of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and other oil field services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget. Our industry is cyclical and, from time to time, there is a shortage of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or qualified personnel. During these periods, the costs of rigs, equipment, supplies and personnel are substantially greater and their availability may be limited. Additionally, these services may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. 39 Table of Contents Market conditions or operational impediments may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. Market conditions or a lack of satisfactory oil and natural gas transportation arrangements may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. The availability of a ready market for our oil and natural gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and natural gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities. Our ability to market our production depends, in substantial part, on the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines and treating facilities. For example, in 2009 we experienced capacity limitations on high CO2 gas treating in the Piñon Field. Our failure to obtain such services on acceptable terms in the future or expand our midstream assets could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be required to shut in wells for a lack of a market or because access to natural gas pipelines, gathering system capacity or treating facilities may be limited or unavailable. We would be unable to realize revenue from any shut-in wells until production arrangements were made to deliver the production to market. Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, which may adversely affect our ability to succeed. The oil and natural gas industry is intensely competitive, and we compete with companies that have greater resources than we do. Many of these companies not only explore for and produce oil and natural gas, but also carry on refining operations and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national or worldwide basis. These companies may be able to pay more for productive oil and natural gas properties and exploratory prospects or identify, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, these companies may have a greater ability to continue exploration activities during periods of low oil and natural gas market prices. Our larger competitors may be able to absorb the burden of present and future federal, state, local and other laws and regulations more easily than we can, which would adversely affect our competitive position. Our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover reserves in the future will be dependent upon our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. In addition, because we have fewer financial and human resources than many companies in our industry, we may be at a disadvantage in bidding for exploratory prospects and producing oil and natural gas properties. See “Business — Competition” in Item 1 of this report. Downturns in oil and natural gas prices can result in decreased oil field activity which, in turn, can result in an oversupply of service providers and drilling rigs. This oversupply can result in severe reductions in prices received for oil field services or a complete lack of work for crews and equipment. We are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations or expose us to significant liabilities. Our oil and natural gas exploration, production, transportation and treatment operations are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations. In order to conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities. We may incur substantial costs in order to maintain compliance with these existing laws and regulations. Further, in light of the explosion and fire on the drilling rig Deepwater Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico, as well as incidents involving the release of oil and natural gas and fluids as a result of drilling activities in the United States, there has been a variety of regulatory initiatives at the federal and state level to restrict oil and natural gas drilling operations in certain locations. Any increased regulation or suspension of oil and natural gas exploration and production, or revision or reinterpretation of existing laws and regulations, that arises out of these incidents or otherwise could result in delays and higher operating costs. Such costs or significant delays could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must also comply with laws and regulations prohibiting fraud and market manipulations in energy markets. To the extent we are a shipper on interstate pipelines, we must comply with tariffs of such pipelines and with federal policies related to the use of interstate capacity. 40 Table of Contents Laws and regulations governing oil and natural gas exploration and production may also affect production levels. We are required to comply with federal and state laws and regulations governing conservation matters, including provisions related to the unitization or pooling of the oil and natural gas properties; the establishment of maximum rates of production from wells; the spacing of wells; and the plugging and abandonment of wells. These and other laws and regulations can limit the amount of oil and natural gas we can produce from our wells, limit the number of wells we can drill, or limit the locations at which we can conduct drilling operations. New laws or regulations, or changes to existing laws or regulations may unfavorably impact us, could result in increased operating costs and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, Congress is currently considering legislation that, if adopted in its proposed form, would subject companies involved in oil and natural gas and oil exploration and production activities to, among other items, additional regulation of and restrictions on hydraulic fracturing of wells, the elimination of most U.S. federal tax incentives and deductions available to oil and natural gas exploration and production activities, and the prohibition or additional regulation of private energy commodity derivative and hedging activities. Additionally, state and federal regulatory authorities may expand or alter applicable pipeline safety laws and regulations, compliance with which may require increased capital costs on the part of us and third party downstream oil and natural gas transporters. These and other potential regulations could increase our operating costs, reduce our liquidity, delay our operations, increase direct and third party post production costs or otherwise alter the way we conducts our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and which could reduce cash received by or available for distribution, including any amounts paid by us for transportation on downstream interstate pipelines. Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations that may result in significant costs and liabilities. Our oil and natural gas exploration and production operations are subject to stringent and comprehensive federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations that are applicable to our operations including the acquisition of a permit before conducting drilling; water withdrawal or waste disposal activities; the restriction of types, quantities and concentration of materials that can be released into the environment; the limitation or prohibition of drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; and the imposition of substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from operations. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, often requiring difficult and costly actions. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil or criminal penalties; the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations; and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations. There is inherent risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in the performance of our operations due to its handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes, because of air emissions and wastewater discharges related to its operations, and as a result of historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. Under certain environmental laws and regulations, we could be subject to joint and several strict liability for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination regardless of whether we were responsible for the release or contamination or if the operations were not in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. Private parties, including the owners of properties upon which our wells are drilled and facilities where our petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance, as well as to seek damages for non-compliance, with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage. In addition, the risk of accidental spills or releases could expose us to significant liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur 41 Table of Contents frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance. As a result of the increased cost of compliance, we may decide to discontinue drilling. The Century Plant may not operate or perform as intended. We are constructing the Century Plant, a CO2 treatment plant in Pecos County, Texas, and associated compression and pipeline facilities pursuant to an agreement with a subsidiary of Occidental. The Century Plant will be owned and operated by Occidental for the purpose of separating and removing CO2 from natural gas delivered by us. Pursuant to a 30-year treating agreement executed simultaneously with the construction agreement, Occidental will remove CO2 from our delivered production volumes. There are significant risks associated with the operation and performance of a facility such as the Century Plant. In addition, there is no guarantee that we will be able to construct the Century Plant within the budgeted amount or find, produce and deliver enough high CO2 gas to satisfy our delivery obligations or that the Century Plant will operate at its designed capacity or otherwise perform as anticipated. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, and integration of acquisitions may disrupt our business and management. In the future, we may acquire other companies or large asset packages, as we have done in the past. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition and each acquisition has numerous risks. These risks include: • difficulty in assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired company; • difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures and policies during the transition and integration; • disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of our management and employees from other opportunities and challenges; • difficulty integrating the acquired company’s accounting, management information, human resources and other administrative systems; • inability to retain key personnel of the acquired business; • inability to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses; • inability to take advantage of anticipated tax benefits; • potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired business; • exposure to litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risk as a result of, an acquisition, including but not limited to, claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders or other third-parties; • potential inability to assert that internal controls over financial reporting are effective; and • potential incompatibility of business cultures. Repercussions from terrorist activities or armed conflict could harm our business. Terrorist activities, anti-terrorist efforts or other armed conflict involving the United States or its interests abroad may adversely affect the United States and global economies and could prevent us from meeting our financial and other obligations. If events of this nature occur and persist, the attendant political instability and societal disruption could reduce overall demand for oil and natural gas, potentially putting downward pressure on 42 Table of Contents prevailing oil and natural gas prices and causing a reduction in our revenues. Oil and natural gas production facilities, transportation systems and storage facilities could be direct targets of terrorist attacks, and or operations could be adversely impacted if infrastructure integral to our operations is destroyed by such an attack. Costs for insurance and other security may increase as a result of these threats, and some insurance coverage may become more difficult to obtain, if available at all. If we fail to maintain an adequate system of internal control over financial reporting, it could adversely affect our ability to accurately report our results. Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in our internal control over financial reporting that results in a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent material fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent material fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. Our efforts to develop and maintain our internal controls may not be successful, and we may be unable to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, including future compliance with the obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any failure to develop or maintain effective controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, including those related to acquired businesses, or other effective improvement of our internal controls could harm our operating results. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. Certain U.S. federal income tax preferences currently available with respect to oil and natural gas production may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. Among the changes contained in President Obama’s Budget Proposal for Fiscal Year 2012 is the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and gas exploration and production. The President’s budget proposes to eliminate certain tax preferences applicable to taxpayers engaged in the exploration or production of natural resources. Specifically, the budget proposes to repeal the deduction for percentage depletion with respect to wells, in which case only cost depletion would be available. It is unclear whether any such changes will be enacted or how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. New derivatives legislation and regulation could adversely affect our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) creates a new regulatory framework for oversight of derivatives transactions by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”) and the SEC. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act subjects certain swap participants to new capital, margin and business conduct standards. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act contemplates that where appropriate in light of outstanding exposures, trading liquidity and other factors, swaps (broadly defined to include most hedging instruments other than futures) will be required to be cleared through a registered clearing facility and traded on a designated exchange or swap execution facility. The Dodd-Frank Act also establishes a new Energy and Environmental Markets Advisory Committee to make recommendations to the CFTC regarding matters of concern to exchanges, firms, end users and regulators with respect to energy and environmental markets and also expands the CFTC’s power to impose position limits on specific categories of swaps (excluding swaps entered into for bona fide hedging purposes). There are some exceptions to these requirements for entities that use swaps to hedge or mitigate commercial risk. While we may qualify for one or more of such exceptions, the scope of these exceptions is uncertain and 43 Table of Contents will be further defined through rulemaking proceedings at the CFTC and SEC. Further, although we may qualify for exceptions, our derivatives counterparties may be subject to new capital, margin and business conduct requirements imposed as a result of the new legislation, which may increase our transaction costs or make it more difficult for us to enter into hedging transactions on favorable terms. Our inability to enter into hedging transactions on favorable terms, or at all, could increase our operating expenses and put us at increased exposure to risks of adverse changes in oil and natural gas prices, which could adversely affect the predictability of cash flows from sales of oil and natural gas. In January 2011, the CFTC proposed rules to establish a position limits regime on certain “core” physical-delivery contracts and their economically equivalent derivatives, some of which reference major energy commodities, including oil and natural gas. The CFTC also indicated that it intends to propose a process for determining what other swaps may be subject to position limits. Although it is not possible at this time to predict the consequences that would arise from implementing these proposals, any regulations that are adopted that subject us or our derivatives counterparties to additional capital or margin requirements relating to, or impose additional restrictions on, our trading and commodity positions could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business or on the cost of our hedging activity. Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays as well as adversely affect our services. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons from tight formations. The process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions but is not subject to regulation at the federal level. The EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities, with results of the study anticipated to be available by late 2012, and a committee of the U.S. House of Representatives is also conducting an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. Legislation has been introduced before Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the fracturing process. In addition, some states have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could restrict hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances. If new laws or regulations that significantly restrict or regulate hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such legal requirements could make it more difficult or costly for us to perform fracturing to stimulate production from a formation and thereby affect the determination of whether a well is commercially viable. Restrictions on hydraulic fracturing could also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we are ultimately able to produce in commercial quantities. Climate change laws and regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce while the physical effects of climate change could disrupt our production and cause us to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects. On December 15, 2009, the EPA published its findings that emissions of GHGs present a danger to public health and the environment. These findings allow the agency to adopt and implement regulations that would restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. Accordingly, the EPA has proposed regulations that would require a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and adopted regulations that could trigger permit review for GHG emissions from certain stationary sources. In addition, on October 30, 2009, the EPA published a final rule requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources in the United States, beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. On November 30, 2010, the EPA published a final rule that expands its October 2009 final rule on reporting of GHG emissions to include owners and operators of onshore oil and natural gas production, effective December 30, 2010. Both houses of Congress have actively considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs and the Obama Administration has indicated its support for legislation to reduce GHG emissions through an emission allowance system. At the state level, almost one-half of the states, either individually or through multi-state regional 44 Table of Contents initiatives, already have begun implementing legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs. The adoption and implementation of any regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHGs from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with its operations or could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas that it produces. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our assets and operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 