Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Prospective investors should carefully consider the risks described below and other information contained in this annual report, including our financial statements and related notes before purchasing shares of our common stock. There are numerous and varied risks, known and unknown, that may prevent us from achieving our goals. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and investors in our common stock could lose all or part of their investment. Risks Relating to Our Business We may be unable to successfully execute any of our identified business opportunities or other business opportunities that we determine to pursue. In order to pursue business opportunities, we will need to continue to build our infrastructure and operational capabilities. Our ability to do any of these successfully could be affected by any one or more of the following factors: · the ability of our equipment, our equipment suppliers or our service providers to perform as we expect; · the ability of our services to achieve market acceptance; · our ability to execute our business strategy, which could be affected by our limited experience in providing fixed, high-speed wireless broadband services; · our ability to manage our third party relationships effectively; · our ability to negotiate acceptable agreements to secure suitable locations for our equipment, such as desirable rooftop antenna lease locations; · our ability to manage the expansion of our operations and any acquisitions we may make, which could result in increased costs, high employee turnover or damage to customer relationships; · our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, which may be affected by the significant competition in our industry for persons experienced in network operations and engineering; · equipment failure or interruption of service, which could adversely affect our reputation and our relations with our customers; · our ability to accurately predict and respond to the rapid technological changes in our industry and the evolving demands of the markets we serve; and · our ability to raise substantial additional capital to fund our growth. Our failure to adequately address any one or more of the above factors could have a significant impact on our ability to implement our business plan and our ability to pursue other opportunities that arise, which might negatively affect our business. We depend on the continued availability of leases or licenses for our communications equipment. We have constructed proprietary networks in each of the markets we serve by installing antennae on rooftops, cellular towers and other structures pursuant to lease or license agreements to send and receive wireless signals necessary for our network. We typically seek five year initial terms for our leases with three to five year renewal options. Such renewal options are generally exercisable at our discretion before the expiration of the current term. If these leases are terminated or if the owners of these structures are unwilling to continue to enter into leases or licenses with us in the future, we would be forced to seek alternative arrangements with other providers. If we are unable to continue to obtain or renew such leases on satisfactory terms, our business would be harmed. 6 Table of Contents Our business depends on a strong brand, and if we do not maintain and enhance our brand, our ability to attract and retain customers may be impaired and our business and operating results may be harmed. We believe that our brand is a critical part of our business. Maintaining and enhancing our brand may require us to make substantial investments with no assurance that these investments will be successful. If we fail to promote and maintain the “Towerstream” brand, or if we incur significant expenses in this effort, our business, prospects, operating results and financial condition may be harmed. We anticipate that maintaining and enhancing our brand will become increasingly important, difficult and expensive. We may pursue acquisitions that we believe complement our existing operations but which involve risks that could adversely affect our business. Acquisitions involve risks that could adversely affect our business, including the diversion of management time from operations, and difficulties integrating the operations and personnel of acquired companies. In addition, any future acquisitions could result in significant costs, the incurrence of additional debt or the issuance of equity securities to fund the acquisition, and the assumption of contingent or undisclosed liabilities, all of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In connection with any future acquisition, we generally will seek to minimize the impact of contingent and undisclosed liabilities by obtaining indemnities and warranties from the seller. However, these indemnities and warranties, if obtained, may not fully cover the liabilities due to their limited scope, amount or duration, the financial limitations of the indemnitor or warrantor, or for other reasons. We have a history of operating losses and expect to continue incurring losses for the foreseeable future. Our current business was launched in 1999 and has incurred losses in each year of operation. Prior to our merger in January 2007, Towerstream operated as an S corporation. The accumulated deficit of the S corporation as of December 31, 2006 was $8,213,002. Concurrently with our merger, we elected to operate as a C corporation, and reported a net loss of $8,501,725 in 2007. As of December 31, 2007, our accumulated deficit was $8,501,725, which included a recapitalization adjustment to eliminate the S corporation deficit. In 2008, we recorded a net loss of $13,377,419. We cannot anticipate when, if ever, our operations will become profitable. We expect to incur significant net losses as we expand our sales force, develop our network, expand our markets, undertake acquisitions, acquire spectrum and pursue our business strategy. We intend to invest significantly in our business before we expect cash flow from operations to be adequate to cover our operating expenses. If we are unable to execute our business strategy and grow our business, either as a result of the risks identified in this section or for any other reason, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. We have a large cash and cash equivalent position and in light of the recent market turmoil among financial institutions and related liquidity issues, we may be at risk of being uninsured for a large portion of such assets or having timing problems accessing such assets. The recent market turmoil, including the failure or insolvency of several large financial institutions and the credit crunch affecting the short term debt markets, has caused liquidity problems for companies and institutions across the country. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $25,000,000 in cash and cash equivalents with one large financial banking institution. Although the present regulatory response in the United States for when a large institution becomes insolvent generally has been to have the failing institution merge or transfer assets to more solvent entities, thereby avoiding failures, it is possible that any financial institution could become insolvent or fail. At times, our cash and cash equivalents may be uninsured or in deposit accounts that exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) insurance limits. If the institution at which we have placed our funds were to become insolvent or fail, we could be at risk for losing a substantial portion of our cash deposits, or incur significant time delays in obtaining access to such funds. In light of the limited amount of federal insurance for deposits, even if we were to spread our cash assets among several institutions, we would remain at risk for the amount not covered by insurance. 7 Table of Contents The global economic crisis could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources. The recent distress in the financial markets has resulted in extreme volatility in security prices and diminished liquidity and credit availability, and there can be no assurance that our liquidity will not be affected by changes in the financial markets and the global economy or that our capital resources will at all times be sufficient to satisfy our liquidity needs. Although we believe that cash provided by operations and our cash and cash equivalents currently on hand will provide us with sufficient liquidity through the current credit crisis, tightening of the credit markets could make it more difficult for us to access funds, refinance our existing debt, enter into agreements for new debt or obtain funding through the issuance of our securities. In addition, the current credit crisis is having a significant negative impact on businesses around the world, and the impact of this crisis on our major suppliers cannot be predicted. The inability of key suppliers to access liquidity, or the insolvency of key suppliers, could lead to delivery delays or failures. Our business may require additional capital for continued growth, and our growth may be slowed if we do not have sufficient capital. The continued growth and operation of our business may require additional funding for working capital, debt service, the enhancement and upgrade of our network, the build-out of infrastructure to expand our coverage, possible acquisitions, and possible bids to acquire spectrum licenses. In addition, we must use a portion of our cash flows from operations and other available cash to make payments of principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing funds that could be available for other purposes, such as working capital, the enhancement and upgrade of our network, the build-out of infrastructure to expand our coverage, possible acquisitions and possible bids to acquire spectrum licenses. We may be unable to secure such funding when needed in adequate amounts or on acceptable terms, if at all. To execute our business strategy, we may issue additional equity securities in public or private offerings, potentially at a price lower than the market price at the time of such issuance. Similarly, we may seek additional debt financing, and may be forced to incur significant interest expense. If we cannot secure sufficient funding, we may be forced to forego strategic opportunities or delay, scale back or eliminate network deployments, operations, acquisitions, spectrum bids and other investments. Our debt and restrictive debt covenants could limit our financing options and liquidity position, which would limit our ability to grow our business. In January 2007, we issued 8% senior convertible debentures, due December 31, 2009, in an aggregate principal amount of $3,500,000. On January 4, 2008, a debenture holder converted $750,000 of senior convertible debentures into common stock at a conversion price of $2.75 per share resulting in the issuance of 272,727 shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2008, $2,750,000 of principal remains outstanding under the 8% senior convertible debentures. The terms of our debt could have negative consequences to the holders of our common stock. Covenants in the securities purchase agreement governing our debentures impose operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions prohibit or limit our ability, and the ability of our subsidiaries, to, among other things: · pay cash dividends to our stockholders; · incur additional debt; · permit liens on or conduct sales of assets; and · engage in transactions with affiliates. These restrictions may limit our ability to obtain additional financing, withstand downturns in our business and take advantage of business opportunities. Moreover, we may seek additional debt financing on terms that include more restrictive covenants, may require repayment on an accelerated schedule or may impose other obligations that limit our ability to grow our business, acquire needed assets, or take other actions we might otherwise consider appropriate or desirable. 8 Table of Contents Many of our competitors are better established and have resources significantly greater than we have, which may make it difficult to attract and retain customers. The market for broadband and related services is highly competitive, and we compete with several other companies within each of our markets. Many of our competitors are well established with larger and better developed networks and support systems, longer-standing relationships with customers and suppliers, greater name recognition and greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have. Our competitors may subsidize competing services with revenue from other sources and, thus, may offer their products and services at prices lower than ours. Our competitors may also reduce the prices of their services significantly or may offer broadband connectivity packaged with other products or services. We may not be able to reduce our prices or otherwise combine our services with other products or services, which may make it more difficult to attract and retain customers. In addition, new competitors may emerge for our primarily commercial and business customer base from businesses primarily engaged in providing residential services to consumers. We expect existing and prospective competitors to adopt technologies or business plans similar to ours, or seek other means to develop services competitive with ours, particularly if our services prove to be attractive in our target markets. This competition may make it difficult to attract and retain customers. We may experience difficulties in constructing, upgrading and maintaining our network, which could adversely affect customer satisfaction, increase customer turnover and reduce our revenues. Our success depends on developing and providing products and services that give customers high quality Internet connectivity. If the number of customers using our network and the complexity of our products and services increase, we will require more infrastructure and network resources to maintain the quality of our services. Consequently, we may be required to make substantial investments to construct and improve our facilities and equipment, and to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure. If we do not implement these developments successfully, or if we experience inefficiencies, operational failures or unforeseen costs during implementation, the quality of our products and services could decline. We may experience quality deficiencies, cost overruns and delays in implementing our network improvements and expansion, in maintenance and upgrade projects, including the portions of those projects not within our control or the control of our contractors. Our network requires the receipt of permits and approvals from numerous governmental bodies, including municipalities and zoning boards. Such bodies often limit the expansion of transmission towers and other construction necessary for our business. Failure to receive approvals in a timely fashion can delay system rollouts and raise the cost of completing projects. In addition, we typically are required to obtain rights from land, building or tower owners to install our antennae and other equipment to provide service to our customers. We may not be able to obtain, on terms acceptable to us, or at all, the rights necessary to construct our network and expand our services. We also face challenges in managing and operating our network. These challenges include operating, maintaining and upgrading network and customer premise equipment to accommodate increased traffic or technological advances, and managing the sales, advertising, customer support, billing and collection functions of our business while providing reliable network service at expected speeds and quality. Our failure in any of these areas could adversely affect customer satisfaction, increase customer turnover or churn, increase our costs and decrease our revenues. If we do not obtain and maintain rights to use licensed spectrum in one or more markets, we may be unable to operate in these markets which could negatively impact our ability to execute our business strategy. To the extent we secure licensed spectrum, we face increased operational costs, greater regulatory scrutiny and may become subject to arbitrary government decision making. Since we provide our services in some markets by using licensed spectrum, we must secure and maintain sufficient rights to use licensed spectrum by obtaining licenses or long-term leases in those markets. Obtaining licensed spectrum can be a long and difficult process that can be costly and require a disproportionate amount of our management resources, and may require us to incur significant debt or secure additional capital. We may not be successful in our efforts to secure financing and may not be deemed a qualified bidder due to our small size or our creditworthiness, or be able to acquire, lease or maintain the spectrum necessary to execute our strategy. 9 Table of Contents Licensed spectrum, whether owned or leased, poses additional risks, including: · inability to satisfy build-out or service deployment requirements upon which spectrum licenses or leases are, or may be, conditioned; · increases in spectrum acquisition costs or complexity; · competitive bids, pre-bid qualifications and post-bid requirements for spectrum acquisitions, in which we may not be successful leading to, among other things, increased competition; · adverse changes to regulations governing spectrum rights; · the risk that acquired or leased spectrum will not be commercially usable or free of damaging interference from licensed or unlicensed operators in our or adjacent bands; · contractual disputes with, or the bankruptcy or other reorganization of, the license holders, which could adversely affect control over the spectrum subject to such licenses; · failure of the FCC or other regulators to renew spectrum licenses as they expire; and · invalidation of authorization to use all or a significant portion of our spectrum. In a number of markets we utilize unlicensed spectrum which is subject to intense competition, low barriers of entry and slowdowns due to multiple users. We presently utilize unlicensed spectrum in connection with our service offerings. Unlicensed or “free” spectrum is available to multiple users and may suffer bandwidth limitations, interference and slowdowns if the number of users exceeds traffic capacity. The availability of unlicensed spectrum is not unlimited and others do not need to obtain permits or licenses to utilize the same unlicensed spectrum that we currently or may in the future utilize, threatening our ability to reliably deliver our services. Moreover, the prevalence of unlicensed spectrum creates low barriers of entry in our business, creating the potential for heightened competition. Interruption or failure of our information technology and communications systems could impair our ability to provide services which could damage our reputation and adversely affect our operating results. Our services depend on the continuing operation of our information technology and communications systems. We have experienced service interruptions in the past and may experience service interruptions or system failures in the future. Any unscheduled service interruption adversely affects our ability to operate our business and could result in an immediate loss of revenues. If we experience frequent or persistent system or network failures, our reputation could be permanently harmed. We may need to make significant capital expenditures to increase the reliability of our systems, however, these capital expenditures may not achieve the results we expect. 10 Table of Contents Excessive customer churn may adversely affect our financial performance by slowing customer growth, increasing costs and reducing revenues. The successful implementation of our business plan depends upon controlling customer churn. Customer churn is a measure of customers who stop using our services. Customer churn could increase as a result of: · billing errors and/or general reduction in the quality of our customer service; · interruptions to the delivery of services to customers over our network; · the availability of competing technology, such as cable modems, DSL, third-generation cellular, satellite, wireless internet service and other emerging technologies, some of which may be less expensive or technologically superior to those offered by us; and · new competitors entering the markets in which we offer service. An increase in customer churn can lead to slower customer growth, increased costs and a reduction in revenues. If our strategy is unsuccessful, we will not be profitable and our stockholders could lose their investment. There is no track record for companies pursuing our strategy. Many fixed wireless companies have failed and there is no guarantee that our strategy will be successful or profitable. If our strategy is unsuccessful, the value of our company may decrease and our stockholders could lose their investment. We may not be able to effectively control and manage our growth which would negatively impact our operations. If our business and markets continue to grow and develop, it will be necessary for us to finance and manage expansion in an orderly fashion. In addition, we may face challenges in managing expanding product and service offerings, and in integrating acquired businesses. Such events would increase demands on our existing management, workforce and facilities. Failure to satisfy increased demands could interrupt or adversely affect our operations and cause backlogs and administrative inefficiencies. The success of our business depends on the continuing contributions of key personnel and our ability to attract, train and retain highly qualified personnel. We are highly dependent on the continued services of our Chairman, Philip Urso, and our President and Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey M. Thompson. On December 21, 2007, we entered into a two-year employment agreement with Jeffrey M. Thompson which includes renewal options. We cannot guarantee that any of these persons will stay with us for any definite period. Loss of the services of any of these individuals could adversely impact our operations. We do not maintain policies of “key man” insurance on our executives. In addition, we must be able to attract, train, motivate and retain highly skilled and experienced technical employees in order to successfully introduce our services in new markets and grow our business in existing markets. Qualified technical employees often are in great demand and may be unavailable in the time frame required to satisfy our business requirements. We may not be able to attract and retain sufficient numbers of highly skilled technical employees in the future. The loss of technical personnel or our inability to hire or retain sufficient technical personnel at competitive rates of compensation could impair our ability to successfully grow our business and retain our existing customer base. Any acquisitions we make could result in integration difficulties that could lead to substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial difficulties. We may seek to expand by acquiring competing businesses, including those operating in our current business markets or those operating in other geographic markets. We cannot accurately predict the timing, size and success of our acquisition efforts and the associated capital commitments that might be required. We expect to encounter competition for acquisitions which may limit the number of potential acquisition opportunities and may lead to higher acquisition prices. We may not be able to identify, acquire or profitably manage additional businesses or successfully integrate acquired businesses, if any, without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial difficulties. 11 Table of Contents In addition, such acquisitions involve a number of other risks, including: · failure of the acquired businesses to achieve expected results; · diversion of management’s attention and resources to acquisitions; · failure to retain key customers or personnel of the acquired businesses; · disappointing quality or functionality of acquired equipment and personnel; and · risks associated with unanticipated events, liabilities or contingencies. Client dissatisfaction with, or performance problems of, a single acquired business could negatively affect our reputation. The inability to acquire businesses on reasonable terms or successfully integrate and manage acquired companies, or the occurrence of performance problems at acquired companies, could result in dilution, unfavorable accounting treatment or one-time charges and difficulties in successfully managing our business. Our inability to obtain capital, internally generate cash, secure additional debt financing, or use shares of our common stock to finance future acquisitions could impair the growth and expansion of our business. The extent to which we will be able or willing to use shares of our common stock to consummate acquisitions will depend on (i) the market value of our securities which will vary, (ii) liquidity, which is presently limited, and (iii) the willingness of potential sellers to accept shares of our common stock as full or partial payment for their business. Using shares of our common stock for this purpose may result in significant dilution to existing stockholders. To the extent that we are unable to use common stock to make future acquisitions, our ability to grow through acquisitions may be limited by the extent to which we are able to raise capital through debt or equity financings. We may not be able to obtain the necessary capital to finance any acquisitions. If we are unable to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms, we may be required to reduce the scope of expansion or redirect resources committed to internal purposes. Our failure to use shares of our common stock to make future acquisitions may hinder our ability to actively pursue our acquisition program. We rely on a limited number of third party suppliers that manufacture network equipment, and install and maintain our network sites. If these companies fail to perform or experience delays, shortages or increased demand for their products or services, we may face shortage of components, increased costs, and may be required to suspend our network deployment and our product and service introduction. We depend on a limited number of third party suppliers to produce and deliver products required for our networks. We also depend on a limited number of third parties to install and maintain our network facilities. We do not maintain any long term supply contracts with these manufacturers. If a manufacturer or other provider does not satisfy our requirements, or if we lose a manufacturer or any other significant provider, we may have insufficient network equipment for delivery to customers and for installation or maintenance of our infrastructure, and we may be forced to suspend the deployment of our network and enrollment of new customers, thus impairing future growth. If our data security measures are breached, customers may perceive our network and services as not secure, which may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers and expose us to liability. Network security and the authentication of a customer’s credentials are designed to protect unauthorized access to data on our network. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or to sabotage networks change frequently and may not be recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate or implement adequate preventive measures against unauthorized access or sabotage. Consequently, unauthorized parties may overcome our encryption and security systems, and obtain access to data on our network, including on a device connected to our network. In addition, because we operate and control our network and our customers’ Internet connectivity, unauthorized access or sabotage of our network could result in damage to our network and to the computers or other devices used by our customers. An actual or perceived breach of network security, regardless of whether the breach is our fault, could harm public perception of the effectiveness of our security measures, adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers, expose us to significant liability and adversely affect our business prospects. 12 Table of Contents In providing our services we could infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to engage in costly litigation and, if we do not prevail, could also cause us to pay substantial damages and prohibit us from selling our services. Third parties may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us. We may have to pay substantial damages, including damages for past infringement if it is ultimately determined that our services infringe a third party’s proprietary rights. Further, we may be prohibited from selling or providing some of our services before we obtain additional licenses, which, if available at all, may require us to pay substantial royalties or licensing fees. Even if claims are without merit, defending a lawsuit takes significant time, may be expensive and may divert management’s attention from our other business concerns. Any public announcements related to litigation or interference proceedings initiated or threatened against us could cause our business to be harmed and our stock price to decline. Risks Relating to Our Industry An economic or industry slowdown may materially and adversely affect our business. Slowdowns in the economy or in the wireless or broadband industry may impact demand for wireless or broadband services, thereby reducing demand for our services, or negatively impact other businesses or industries, thereby reducing demand for our services by causing others to delay or abandon implementation of new systems and technologies, including wireless broadband services. Further, the war on terrorism, the threat of additional terrorist attacks, the political and economic uncertainties resulting therefrom and other unforeseen events may impose additional risks upon and adversely affect the wireless or broadband industry, and our business. The industry in which we operate is continually evolving which makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and increases the risk of an investment in our securities. Our services may become obsolete and we may not be able to develop competitive products or services on a timely basis or at all. The broadband and wireless services industries are characterized by rapid technological change, competitive pricing, frequent new service introductions, and evolving industry standards and regulatory requirements. We believe that our success depends on our ability to anticipate and adapt to these challenges and to offer competitive services on a timely basis. We face a number of difficulties and uncertainties associated with our reliance on technological development, such as: · competition from service providers using more traditional and commercially proven means to deliver similar or alternative services; · competition from new service providers using more efficient, less expensive technologies, including products not yet invented or developed; · uncertain customer acceptance; · realizing economies of scale; · responding successfully to advances in competing technologies in a timely and cost-effective manner; · migration toward standards-based technology, requiring substantial capital expenditures; and · existing, proposed or undeveloped technologies that may render our wireless broadband services less profitable or obsolete. 13 Table of Contents As the services offered by us and our competitors develop, businesses and consumers may not accept our services as a commercially viable alternative to other means of delivering wireless broadband services. As a result, our services may become obsolete and we may be unable to develop competitive products or services on a timely basis, or at all. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities. If we fail to comply with these regulations, we may be subject to penalties, including fines and suspensions, and past due fees and interest which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our business, including the acquisition, lease, maintenance, and use of spectrum licenses, is extensively regulated by federal, state and local governmental authorities. A number of federal, state and local privacy, security, and consumer laws also apply to our business. These regulations and their application are subject to continual change as new legislation, regulations or amendments to existing regulations are adopted from time to time by governmental or regulatory authorities, including as a result of judicial interpretations of such laws and regulations. Current regulations directly affect the breadth of services we are able to offer and may impact the rates, terms and conditions of our services. Regulation of companies that offer competing services such as cable and DSL providers, and telecommunications carriers also affects our business. We believe that we are not required to register with the Universal Service Administrative Company (“USAC”) as a seller of telecommunications, nor are we required to collect USF Fees from our customers or to pay USF Fees directly. It is possible, however, that the FCC may assert that we are a seller of telecommunications and that we are required to register and pay USF Fees on some or all of our gross revenues. Although we would contest any such assertion, we could become obligated to pay USF Fees, interest and penalties to USAC with respect to our gross revenues, past and/or future, from providing telecommunications services, and we may be unable to retroactively bill our customers for past USF Fees. In addition, the FCC or other regulatory authorities may in the future restrict our ability to manage customers’ use of our network, thereby limiting our ability to prevent or address customers’ excessive bandwidth demands. To maintain the quality of our network and user experience, we may manage the bandwidth used by our customers’ applications, in part by restricting the types of applications that may be used over our network. If the FCC or other regulatory authorities were to adopt regulations that constrain our ability to employ bandwidth management practices, excessive use of bandwidth-intensive applications would likely reduce the quality of our services for all customers. Such decline in the quality of our services could harm our business. The breach of a license or applicable law, even if inadvertent, can result in the revocation, suspension, cancellation or reduction in the term of a license or the imposition of fines. In addition, regulatory authorities may grant new licenses to third parties, resulting in greater competition in territories where we already have rights to licensed spectrum. In order to promote competition, licenses may also require that third parties be granted access to our bandwidth, frequency capacity, facilities or services. We may not be able to obtain or retain any required license, and we may not be able to renew a license on favorable terms, or at all. Wireless broadband services may become subject to greater state or federal regulation in the future. The scope of the regulations that may apply to companies like us and the impact of such regulations on our competitive position are presently unknown and could be detrimental to our business and prospects. Risks Relating to Our Organization Our certificate of incorporation allows for our board to create new series of preferred stock without further approval by our stockholders which could adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common stock. Our board of directors has the authority to fix and determine the relative rights and preferences of preferred stock. Our board of directors also has the authority to issue preferred stock without further stockholder approval. As a result, our board of directors could authorize the issuance of a series of preferred stock that would grant to holders the preferred right to our assets upon liquidation, the right to receive dividend payments before dividends are distributed to the holders of common stock and the right to the redemption of the shares, together with a premium, prior to the redemption of our common stock. In addition, our board of directors could authorize the issuance of a series of preferred stock that has greater voting power than our common stock or that is convertible into our common stock, which could decrease the relative voting power of our common stock or result in dilution to our existing stockholders. 14 Table of Contents Our officers and directors own a substantial amount of our common stock and, therefore, exercise significant control over our corporate governance and affairs which may result in their taking actions with which other shareholders do not agree. Our executive officers and directors, and entities affiliated with them, control approximately 25% of our outstanding common stock (including exercisable stock options held by them). These shareholders, if they act together, may be able to exercise substantial influence over the outcome of all corporate actions requiring approval of our shareholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, which may result in corporate action with which other shareholders do not agree. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control which might be in other shareholders’ best interest but which might negatively affect the market price of our common stock. We are subject to financial reporting and other requirements for which our accounting, internal audit and other management systems and resources may not be adequately prepared. On January 12, 2007, we became subject to reporting and other obligations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404 requires us to conduct an annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 and thereafter, and to obtain a report by our independent auditors addressing these assessments for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2009 and thereafter. These reporting and other obligations will place significant demands on our management, administrative, operational, internal audit and accounting resources. We anticipate that we may need to (i) upgrade our systems, (ii) implement additional financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures, (iii) implement an internal audit function, and (iv) hire additional accounting, internal audit and finance staff. If we are unable to accomplish these objectives in a timely and effective fashion, our ability to comply with our financial reporting requirements and other rules that apply to reporting companies could be impaired. Any failure to maintain effective internal controls could have a negative impact on our ability to manage our business and on our stock price. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock We may fail to qualify for continued listing on NASDAQ which could make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares. In May 2007, our common stock was approved for listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market and our common stock continues to be listed on the Capital Market. There can be no assurance that trading of our common stock on such market will be sustained or that we can meet NASDAQ’s continued listing standards. In the event that our common stock fails to qualify for continued inclusion, our common stock could thereafter only be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board which is commonly referred to as the “pink sheets.” Under such circumstances, shareholders may find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations, for our common stock, and our common stock would become substantially less attractive to certain purchasers such as financial institutions, hedge funds and other similar investors. Our common stock may be affected by limited trading volume and price fluctuations, each of which could adversely impact the value of our common stock. There has been limited trading in our common stock and there can be no assurance that an active trading market in our common stock will either develop or be maintained. Our common stock has experienced, and is likely to experience in the future, significant price and volume fluctuations, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock without regard to our operating performance. In addition, we believe that factors such as quarterly fluctuations in our financial results and changes in the overall economy or the condition of the financial markets could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. These fluctuations may also cause short sellers to periodically enter the market in the belief that we will have poor results in the future. We cannot predict the actions of market participants and, therefore, can offer no assurances that the market for our stock will be stable or appreciate over time. We have not paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends in the future. Any return on an investment in our common stock may be limited to the value of the stock. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends on our common stock will depend on our earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors as our board of directors may consider relevant. If we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on a shareholder’s investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. 15 Table of Contents Although the NASDAQ Capital Market has temporarily suspended its continued listing requirement of a minimum bid price, we could be at risk of a delisting in the future. Under the rules of the NASDAQ Capital Market, we must maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 for our common stock. If a company's stock trades for 30 consecutive business days below the $1.00 minimum closing bid price requirement, NASDAQ will send a deficiency notice to the company, advising that it has been granted a "compliance period" of 180 calendar days to regain compliance with the applicable requirements. Given the current extraordinary market conditions, NASDAQ has suspended the bid price and market value requirements through Monday, April 20, 2009 for all of its listed companies. Our stock price as of December 31, 2008 had a closing price of $0.69 per share. As of March 13, 2009, our stock price had a closing price of $0.81. Although the $1.00 minimum bid rule has been temporarily suspended, it is possible that we could receive notice of possible delisting if our stock trades at less than $1.00 when the rule is reinstated. If we receive a delisting notice and are unable to increase our stock price above $1.00, our shares could be delisted from trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 