Item 1A. Risk Factors Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The Company’s drilling and operating activities are subject to numerous risks, including the risk that the Company will not discover commercially productive reservoirs. Drilling for oil and natural gas can be unprofitable if dry wells are drilled and if productive wells do not produce sufficient revenues to return a profit. Decisions to develop properties depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. The estimated cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is uncertain before drilling commences. Overruns in budgeted expenditures are common risks that can make a particular project uneconomical. In addition, the Company’s drilling and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of various factors, including the following: •delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements including permitting;•unusual or unexpected geological formations and miscalculations;•shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment and qualified personnel;•shortages of or delays in obtaining water for hydraulic fracturing operations;•equipment malfunctions, failures or accidents;•lack of available gathering facilities or delays in construction of gathering facilities;•lack of available capacity on interconnecting transmission pipelines;•lack of adequate electrical infrastructure;•unexpected operational events and drilling conditions;•pipe or cement failures and casing collapses;•pressures, fires, blowouts and explosions;•lost or damaged drilling and service tools;•loss of drilling fluid circulation;•uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine, water or drilling fluids;•natural disasters;•environmental hazards, such as oil and natural gas leaks, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases or well fluids;•adverse weather conditions such as extreme cold, fires caused by extreme heat or lack of rain, and severe storms, tornadoes or hurricanes;•reductions in oil and natural gas prices;•oil and natural gas property title problems;•unique risks associated with offshore operations, such as potential oil spills and increased regulation; and•market limitations for oil and natural gas.Any of these risks can cause substantial losses, including personal injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, environmental contamination or loss of wells and regulatory fines or penalties. 32Table of ContentsOil and natural gas prices fluctuate due to a number of factors that are beyond the Company’s control, and a decline in oil and natural gas prices could significantly affect the Company’s financial results and impede its growth. The Company’s revenues, profitability and cash flow are highly dependent upon the prices it realizes from the sale of oil and natural gas. The markets for these commodities are very volatile. Oil and natural gas prices can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors that are beyond the Company’s control. These factors include, among others: •regional, domestic and foreign supply of, and demand for, oil and natural gas, as well as perceptions of supply of, and demand for, oil and natural gas;•the price and quantity of foreign imports;•U.S. and worldwide political and economic conditions;•weather conditions and seasonal trends;•anticipated future prices of oil and natural gas, alternative fuels and other commodities;•technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply;•the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of pipeline infrastructure, treating, transportation and refining capacity;•natural disasters and other acts of force majeure;•domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation;•energy conservation and environmental measures; and•the price and availability of alternative fuels.For oil, from January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2012, the highest monthly NYMEX settled price was $113.93 per Bbl and the lowest was $41.68 per Bbl. For natural gas, from January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2012, the highest monthly NYMEX settled price was $6.14 per MMBtu and the lowest was $2.04 per MMBtu. In addition, the market price of oil and natural gas is generally higher in the winter months than during other months of the year due to increased demand for oil and natural gas for heating purposes during the winter season. Lower oil and natural gas prices may not only decrease the Company’s revenues on a per share basis, but also may ultimately reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that it can produce economically and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. This also may result in the Company having to make substantial downward adjustments to its estimated proved reserves. Future price declines may result in further reductions of the asset carrying values of the Company’s oil and natural gas properties. The Company utilizes the full cost method of accounting for costs related to its oil and natural gas properties. Under this accounting method, all costs for both productive and nonproductive properties are capitalized and amortized on an aggregate basis over the estimated lives of the properties using the unit-of-production method. However, the amount of these costs that can be carried as capitalized assets is subject to a ceiling, which limits such pooled costs to the aggregate of the present value of future net revenues of proved oil and natural gas reserves attributable to proved properties, discounted at 10%, plus the lower of cost or market value of unevaluated properties. The full cost ceiling is evaluated at the end of each quarter using the most recent 12-month average prices for oil and natural gas, adjusted for the impact of derivatives accounted for as cash flow hedges. In the event any of the Company’s derivatives are accounted for as cash flow hedges, the impact of these derivative contracts will be included in the determination of the Company’s full cost ceiling. The Company had no full cost ceiling impairments during the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 or 2010 and cumulative full cost ceiling limitation impairment charges of $3.5 billion at both December 31, 2012 and 2011. Future declines in oil and natural gas prices, without other mitigating circumstances, could result in additional losses of future net revenues, including losses attributable to quantities that cannot be economically produced at lower prices, which could cause the Company to record additional write-downs of capitalized costs of its oil and natural gas properties and non-cash charges against future earnings. The amount of such future write-downs and non-cash charges could be substantial. 33Table of ContentsThe Company has a substantial amount of indebtedness and other obligations and commitments, which may adversely affect its cash flow and its ability to operate its business. As of December 31, 2012, the Company’s total indebtedness was $4.3 billion and the Company had preferred stock outstanding with an aggregate liquidation preference of $765.0 million. The Company’s substantial level of indebtedness and the dividends associated with its outstanding preferred stock increases the possibility that it may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of the Company’s indebtedness and/or the preferred stock dividends. The Company’s indebtedness and outstanding preferred stock, combined with its lease and other financial obligations and contractual commitments, such as its obligations to drill development wells for the Royalty Trusts, could have other important consequences to the Company. For example, it could: •make the Company more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation;•require the Company to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on its indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of the Company’s cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;•limit the Company’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industry in which it operates;•place the Company at a disadvantage compared to its competitors that are less leveraged and, therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that the Company’s indebtedness prevents it from pursuing; and•limit the Company’s ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of its business strategy or other purposes.Any of the above listed factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.The Company’s estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions could materially affect the quantities and present value of the Company’s reserves. The Company’s current estimates of reserves could change, potentially in material amounts, in the future. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex and inherently imprecise, requiring interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to production rates and economic factors such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, the assumed effect of governmental regulation and availability of funds for development expenditures. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of the Company’s reserves. See “Business—Business Segments and Primary Operations” in Item 1 of this report for information about the Company’s oil and natural gas reserves. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves will vary and could vary significantly from the Company’s estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in this report, which in turn could have a negative effect on the value of the Company’s assets. In addition, from time to time in the future, the Company may adjust estimates of proved reserves, potentially in material amounts, to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control. 34Table of ContentsThe present value of future net cash flows from the Company’s proved reserves calculated in accordance with SEC guidelines will not necessarily be the same as the current market value of its estimated oil and natural gas reserves. The Company bases the estimated discounted future net cash flows from its proved reserves on 12-month average prices and costs. Actual future net cash flows from the Company’s oil and natural gas properties also will be affected by factors such as: •actual prices the Company receives for oil and natural gas;•the accuracy of the Company’s reserve estimates;•the actual cost of development and production expenditures;•the amount and timing of actual production;•supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; and•changes in governmental regulation or taxation.The timing of both the Company’s production and its incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the Company uses a 10% discount factor when calculating discounted future net cash flows, which may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with the Company or the oil and natural gas industry in general. Unless the Company replaces its oil and natural gas reserves, its reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s future oil and natural gas reserves and production, and therefore its cash flow and income, are highly dependent on its success in efficiently developing and exploiting its current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. The Company may not be able to develop, find or acquire additional reserves to replace its current and future production at acceptable costs, which could adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company will not know conclusively prior to drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present in sufficient quantities to be economically producible. The use of seismic data and other technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area does not enable the Company to know conclusively prior to drilling whether oil or natural gas will be present or, if present, whether oil or natural gas will be present in sufficient quantities to be economically viable. Even if sufficient amounts of oil or natural gas exist, the Company may damage the potentially productive hydrocarbon bearing formation or experience mechanical difficulties while drilling or completing the well, resulting in a reduction in production from the well or abandonment of the well. During 2012, the Company completed a total of 1,089 gross wells, of which three were identified as dry wells. If the Company drills additional wells that it identifies as dry wells in its current and future prospects, its drilling success rate may decline and materially harm its business. In summary, the cost of drilling, completing and operating any well is often uncertain, and new wells may not be productive. Production of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids could be materially and adversely affected by natural disasters or severe or unseasonable weather. Production of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids could be materially and adversely affected by natural disasters or severe weather. Repercussions of natural disasters or severe weather conditions may include: •evacuation of personnel and curtailment of operations;•damage to drilling rigs or other facilities, resulting in suspension of operations;•inability to deliver materials to worksites; and•damage to, or shutting in of, pipelines and other transportation facilities.In addition, the Company’s hydraulic fracturing operations require significant quantities of water. Regions in which the Company operates have recently experienced drought conditions. Any diminished access to water for use in hydraulic fracturing, whether due to usage restrictions or drought or other weather conditions, could curtail the Company’s operations or otherwise result in delays in operations or increased costs. 35Table of ContentsVolatility in the capital markets could affect the Company’s ability to obtain capital, cause it to incur additional financing expense or affect the value of certain assets. In recent periods, global financial markets and economic conditions have been volatile due to multiple factors, including significant write-offs in the financial services sector and weak economic conditions. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial and/or operating strength. Due to this volatility, for many companies the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has been greater in recent periods than has historically been the case. Continued market volatility may from time to time adversely affect the Company’s ability to access capital and credit markets or to obtain funds at low interest rates or on other advantageous terms. These factors may adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations or liquidity. These factors may also adversely affect the value of certain of the Company’s assets and its ability to draw on its senior credit facility. Adverse credit and capital market conditions may require the Company to reduce the carrying value of assets associated with derivative contracts to account for non-performance by, or increased credit risk from, counterparties to those contracts. If financial institutions that have extended credit commitments to the Company are adversely affected by volatile conditions of the United States and international capital markets, they may become unable to fund borrowings under their credit commitments to the Company, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and its ability to borrow additional funds, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures and other corporate purposes. Properties that the Company buys may not produce as projected, and the Company may be unable to determine reserve potential, identify liabilities associated with the properties or obtain protection from sellers against them. The Company’s initial technical reviews of properties it acquires are necessarily limited because an in-depth review of every individual property involved in each acquisition generally is not feasible. Even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. Inspections may not always be performed on every well and environmental problems, such as soil or ground water contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, the Company may assume certain environmental and other risks and liabilities in connection with acquired properties, and such risks and liabilities could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. The development of the Company’s proved undeveloped reserves may take longer and may require higher levels of capital expenditures than the Company currently anticipates. As of December 31, 2012, 43% of the Company’s total reserves were proved undeveloped reserves. Development of these reserves may take longer and require higher levels of capital expenditures than the Company currently anticipates. Therefore, ultimate recoveries from these fields may not match current expectations. Delays in the development of the Company’s reserves or increases in costs to drill and develop such reserves will reduce the PV-10 value of the Company’s estimated proved undeveloped reserves and future net revenues estimated for such reserves. A significant portion of the Company’s operations are located in northwest Oklahoma, Kansas and the Gulf of Mexico, making it vulnerable to risks associated with operating in a limited number of major geographic areas. As of December 31, 2012, excluding reserves and production related to the Permian Properties sold in February 2013, approximately 79% of the Company’s proved reserves and approximately 74% of its production was located in the Mid-Continent and Gulf of Mexico. This concentration could disproportionately expose the Company to operational and regulatory risk in these areas. This relative lack of diversification in location of its key operations could expose the Company to adverse developments in these areas or the oil and natural gas markets, including, for example, transportation or treatment capacity constraints, curtailment of production or treatment plant closures for scheduled maintenance. These factors could have a significantly greater impact on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows than if the Company’s properties were more diversified. 36Table of ContentsThe Company’s development and exploration operations require substantial capital, and the Company may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a loss of properties and a decline in the Company’s oil and natural gas reserves. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. The Company makes substantial capital expenditures in its business and operations for the exploration, development, production and acquisition of oil and natural gas reserves. Historically, the Company has financed capital expenditures primarily with proceeds from asset sales and from the sale of equity and debt securities and cash generated by operations. The Company expects to finance its future capital expenditures with the sale of equity and debt securities, cash flow from operations, asset sales and other financing arrangements. The Company’s cash flow from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including: •the Company’s proved reserves;•the level of oil and natural gas it is able to produce from existing wells;•the prices at which oil and natural gas are sold; and•the Company’s ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves.If the Company’s revenues decrease as a result of lower oil and natural gas prices, lower production, declines in reserves or for any other reason, the Company may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain its operations at current levels. In order to fund the Company’s capital expenditures, it may seek additional financing. However, the Company’s senior credit facility contains covenants limiting its ability to incur additional indebtedness, and the Company’s lenders may withhold their consent to exceed the limitations in such covenants at their sole discretion. The Company’s senior note indentures also contain covenants that may restrict the Company’s ability to incur additional indebtedness if it does not satisfy certain financial metrics. If the Company is unable to obtain additional financing, it may be necessary for the Company to reduce or suspend its capital expenditures. Disruptions in the global financial and capital markets also could adversely affect the Company’s ability to obtain debt or equity financing on favorable terms, or at all. The failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of the Company’s operations relating to exploration and development of its prospects, which in turn could lead to a possible loss of properties and a decline in the Company’s oil and natural gas reserves. The agreements governing the Company’s existing indebtedness have restrictions, financial covenants and borrowing base redeterminations which could adversely affect its operations. The Company’s senior credit facility and the indentures governing its senior notes restrict its ability to, among other things, obtain additional financing, make investments, lease equipment, sell assets and engage in business combinations. The senior credit facility also requires the Company to comply with certain financial covenants and ratios. The Company’s ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants in the future is uncertain and could be affected by the levels of cash flow from the Company’s operations and events or circumstances beyond its control. Declining commodity prices could adversely affect the Company’s ability to comply with such restrictions and covenants. The Company’s failure to comply with any of the restrictions and covenants under the senior credit facility, senior notes or other debt financings could result in a default under those instruments, which could cause all of its existing indebtedness to be immediately due and payable. The Company’s senior credit facility limits the amounts it can borrow to a borrowing base amount. The borrowing base is subject to review semi-annually; however, the lenders reserve the right to have one additional re-determination of the borrowing base per calendar year. Unscheduled re-determinations may be made at the Company’s request, but are limited to two requests per year. Borrowing base determinations are based upon proved developed producing reserves, proved developed non-producing reserves and proved undeveloped reserves. Outstanding borrowings exceeding the borrowing base must be repaid promptly, or the Company must pledge other oil and natural gas properties as additional collateral. The Company may not have the financial resources in the future to make any mandatory principal prepayments under the senior credit facility, which are required, for example, when the committed line of credit is exceeded, proceeds of asset sales in new oil and natural gas properties are not reinvested, or indebtedness that is not permitted by the terms of the senior credit facility is incurred. If the indebtedness under the Company’s senior credit facility and senior notes were to be accelerated, the Company’s assets may not be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full. 37Table of ContentsThe Company’s derivative activities could result in financial losses and could reduce its earnings. To achieve a more predictable cash flow and to reduce its exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas, the Company currently has entered, and may in the future enter, into derivative contracts for a portion of its future oil and natural gas production, including fixed price swaps, collars and basis swaps. The Company has not designated and does not plan to designate any of its derivative contracts as hedges for accounting purposes and, as a result, records all derivative contracts on its balance sheet at fair value with changes in the fair value recognized in current period earnings. Accordingly, the Company’s earnings may fluctuate significantly as a result of changes in the fair value of its derivative contracts. Derivative contracts also expose the Company to the risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when: •production is less than expected;•the counterparty to the derivative contract defaults on its contract obligations; or•there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the derivative contract and actual prices received.In addition, these types of derivative contracts can limit the benefit the Company would receive from increases in the prices for oil and natural gas. The Company’s drilling and services revenues are dependent on the needs of other companies in the oil and natural gas industry. Companies to which the Company provides drilling and related services are affected by the oil and natural gas industry risks mentioned above. Market prices of oil and natural gas, limited access to capital and reductions in capital expenditures could result in oil and natural gas companies canceling or curtailing their drilling programs, which could reduce the demand for the Company’s drilling and related services. Any prolonged reduction in the overall level of exploration and development activities, whether resulting from changes in oil and natural gas prices or otherwise, could impact the Company’s drilling and services segment by negatively affecting: •revenues, cash flow and profitability;•the Company’s ability to retain skilled rig personnel whom it would need in the event of an upturn in the demand for drilling and related services; and•the fair value of the Company’s rig fleet.Oil and natural gas wells are subject to operational hazards that can cause substantial losses for which the Company may not be adequately insured. There are a variety of operating risks inherent in oil and natural gas production and associated activities, such as fires, leaks, explosions, mechanical problems, major equipment failures, blowouts, uncontrollable flow of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, water or drilling fluids, casing collapses, abnormally pressurized formations and natural disasters. The occurrence of any of these or similar accidents that temporarily or permanently halt the production and sale of oil and natural gas at any of the Company’s properties could have a material adverse impact on its business activities, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, if any of such risks or similar accidents occur, the Company could incur substantial losses as a result of injury or loss of life, severe damage or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, regulatory investigation and penalties and environmental damage and clean-up responsibility. If the Company experiences any of these problems, its ability to conduct operations could be adversely affected. While the Company maintains insurance coverage that it deems appropriate for these risks, its operations may result in liabilities exceeding such insurance coverage or liabilities not covered by insurance. Shortages or increases in costs of equipment, services and qualified personnel could adversely affect the Company’s ability to execute its exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within its budget. The demand for qualified and experienced personnel to conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with oil and natural gas prices, causing periodic shortages. Historically, there have been shortages of drilling rigs and other equipment as demand for rigs and equipment has increased along with the number of wells being drilled. These factors also cause significant increases in costs for equipment, services and personnel. Higher oil and natural gas prices generally stimulate demand and result in increased prices for drilling rigs, crews and associated supplies, equipment and services. Shortages of field personnel and equipment or price increases could significantly affect the Company’s ability to execute its exploration and development plans as projected. 38Table of ContentsMarket conditions or operational impediments may hinder the Company’s access to oil and natural gas markets or delay production of oil and natural gas. Market conditions or a lack of satisfactory oil and natural gas transportation arrangements may hinder the Company’s access to oil and natural gas markets or delay production of oil and natural gas. The availability of a ready market for the Company’s oil and natural gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and natural gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities. The Company’s ability to market its production depends, in substantial part, on the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines and treating facilities. The Company’s failure to obtain such services on acceptable terms in the future or to expand its midstream assets could have a material adverse effect on its business. The Company may be required to shut in wells for a lack of a market or because access to natural gas pipelines, gathering system capacity or treating facilities may be limited or unavailable. The Company would be unable to realize revenue from any shut-in wells until production arrangements were made to deliver the production to market. Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, which may adversely affect the Company’s ability to succeed. The oil and natural gas industry is intensely competitive, and the Company competes with many companies that have greater resources than it does. Many of these companies not only explore for and produce oil and natural gas, but also conduct refining operations and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national or worldwide basis. These companies may be able to pay more for productive oil and natural gas properties and exploratory prospects or identify, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than the Company’s financial or human resources permit. In addition, these companies may have a greater ability to continue exploration activities during periods of low oil and natural gas market prices. The Company’s larger competitors may be able to absorb the burden of present and future federal, state, local and other laws and regulations more easily than it can, which would adversely affect its competitive position. The Company’s ability to acquire additional properties and to identify reserves in the future will depend upon its ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. In addition, because the Company has fewer financial and human resources than many companies in its industry, it may be at a disadvantage in bidding for exploratory prospects and producing oil and natural gas properties. Downturns in oil and natural gas prices can result in decreased oil field activity which, in turn, can result in an oversupply of service providers and drilling rigs. This oversupply can result in severe reductions in prices received for oil field services or a complete lack of work for crews and equipment. The Company’s use of 2-D and 3-D seismic data is subject to interpretation and may not accurately identify the presence of oil and natural gas. In addition, the use of such technology requires greater predrilling expenditures, which could adversely affect the results of the Company’s drilling operations. A significant aspect of the Company’s exploration and development plan involves seismic data. Even when properly used and interpreted, 2-D and 3-D seismic data and visualization techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators and do not enable the interpreter to know whether hydrocarbons are present in those structures. Other geologists and petroleum professionals, when studying the same seismic data, may have significantly different interpretations than the Company’s professionals. In addition, the use of 2-D and 3-D seismic and other advanced technologies requires greater predrilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies, and the Company could incur losses due to such expenditures. As a result, the Company’s drilling activities may not be geologically successful or economical, and its overall drilling success rate or its drilling success rate for activities in a particular area may not improve. The Company may often gather 2-D and 3-D seismic data over large areas. The Company’s interpretation of seismic data delineates for it those portions of an area that it believes are desirable for drilling. Therefore, the Company may choose not to acquire option or lease rights prior to acquiring seismic data, and in many cases, the Company may identify hydrocarbon indicators before seeking option or lease rights in the location. If the Company is not able to lease those locations on acceptable terms, it will have made substantial expenditures to acquire and analyze 2-D and 3-D seismic data without having an opportunity to attempt to benefit from those expenditures. 39Table of ContentsMany of the Company’s prospects in the WTO may contain natural gas that is high in CO2 content, which can negatively affect its economics. The reservoirs of many of the Company’s prospects in the WTO may contain natural gas that is high in CO2 content. The natural gas produced from these reservoirs must be treated for the removal of CO2 prior to marketing. If the Company cannot obtain sufficient capacity at treatment facilities for its natural gas with a high CO2 concentration, or if the cost to obtain such capacity significantly increases, the Company could be forced to delay production and development or experience increased production costs. The Company sometimes encounters CO2 levels in its wells that are higher than expected. Since the treatment expenses are incurred on an Mcf basis, the Company will incur a higher effective treating cost per MMBtu of natural gas sold for natural gas with a higher CO2 content. As a result, high CO2 gas wells must produce at much higher rates than low CO2 gas wells to be economic, especially in a low natural gas price environment. Furthermore, when the Company treats the gas for the removal of CO2, some of the methane is used to run the treatment plant as fuel gas and other methane and heavier hydrocarbons, such as ethane, propane and butane, cannot be separated from the CO2 and is lost. This is known as plant shrink. During 2012, the Company’s plant shrink has been approximately 5% in the WTO. After giving effect to plant shrink, as many as 3.3 Mcf of high CO2 natural gas must be produced to sell one MMBtu of natural gas. The Company reports its volumes of natural gas reserves and production net of CO2 volumes that are removed prior to sales. Low levels of natural gas production in the WTO, due to declines in production from existing wells, depressed commodity prices or otherwise, currently adversely affect, and could in the future adversely affect, the Company’s ability to satisfy certain contractual obligations and revenues and cash flow from its midstream services segment. The Company has entered into long-term gas gathering agreements with each of PGC and Occidental. These agreements require the Company to annually deliver certain minimum volumes of natural gas to PGC through June 30, 2029 and CO2 to Occidental through December 31, 2042 and to compensate PGC and Occidental to the extent it does not satisfy the contractual delivery requirements. A material decrease in production in the WTO, where the applicable natural gas assets are located, has resulted in, and may continue to result in, a decline in the volume of natural gas and CO2 delivered to PGC and Occidental, respectively, and to its own pipelines and facilities for gathering, transporting and treating. The Company has no control over many factors affecting production activity in the WTO, including prevailing and projected natural gas prices, demand for hydrocarbons, the level of reserves, geological considerations, governmental regulation and the availability and cost of capital. As a consequence of these factors, the Company has not produced and delivered, and may continue to not produce and deliver, sufficient quantities of natural gas or CO2 to meet its contractual delivery obligations. The Company is required to compensate PGC and Occidental for shortfalls in its contractual delivery obligations. The Company accrued $8.5 million at December 31, 2012 for its 2012 shortfalls under its contract with Occidental and expects to accrue between approximately $29.5 million and $36.0 million during the year ending December 31, 2013 for amounts related to the Company’s anticipated shortfall in meeting its 2013 annual delivery obligations based on current projected natural gas production levels. In future years, amounts payable to PGC and/or Occidental for such shortfalls could be material. In addition, if the Company fails to connect new wells to its gathering systems, the amount of natural gas it gathers, transports and treats will decline substantially over time and could, upon exhaustion of the current wells, cause the Company to abandon its gathering systems and, possibly cease gathering, transporting and treating operations. 40Table of ContentsThe Company may not realize the anticipated benefits of its acquisitions of Dynamic and other properties in the Gulf of Mexico or other future acquisitions, and integration of acquisitions may disrupt the Company’s business and management. The Company acquired Dynamic and other properties in the Gulf of Mexico in the second quarter of 2012, and it may acquire other companies or large asset packages in the future as it has done in the past. The Company may not realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions or other future acquisitions, and each acquisition has numerous risks. These risks include: •difficulty in assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired company;•difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures and policies during the transition and integration;•disruption of the Company’s ongoing business and distraction of its management and employees from other opportunities and challenges;•difficulty integrating the acquired company’s accounting, management information systems, human resources and other administrative systems;•inability to retain key personnel of the acquired business;•inability to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses;•inability to take advantage of anticipated tax benefits;•potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired business;•exposure to litigation and other potential liabilities in connection with environmental laws regulating exploration and production activities related to entities that the Company acquires, or that were previously acquired by such entities;•exposure to litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risk as a result of, an acquisition, including but not limited to, claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders or other third-parties;•potential inability to assert that internal control over financial reporting is effective; and•potential incompatibility of business cultures.Offshore operations involve special risks that could adversely affect operations. Offshore operations are subject to a variety of operating risks specific to the marine environment, such as capsizing, collisions and damage or loss from hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions. These conditions can cause substantial damage to facilities and interrupt production. Any liabilities incurred by the Company with respect to such risks could reduce or eliminate the funds available for exploration, development or leasehold acquisitions or result in loss of equipment and properties. In addition, an oil spill on or related to offshore properties and operations could expose the Company to joint and several strict liability, without regard to fault, under applicable law for all containment and oil removal costs and a variety of public and private damages including, but not limited to, the costs of responding to a release of oil, natural resource damages, and economic damages suffered by persons adversely affected by an oil spill. If an oil discharge or substantial threat of discharge were to occur, the Company may be liable for costs and damages that could be material to its business, financial condition or results of operations. Reserves associated with properties in the Gulf of Mexico will have relatively short production periods or reserve lives. High production rates generally result in recovery of a relatively higher percentage of reserves from properties in the Gulf of Mexico during the initial few years when compared to other regions in the United States. Due to high initial production rates, production of reserves from reservoirs in the Gulf of Mexico generally decline more rapidly than from other producing reservoirs. As a result, the Company’s reserve replacement needs from new prospects in the Gulf of Mexico may be greater than reserve replacement needs for other properties with longer-life reserves in other producing areas. Also, expected revenue and return on capital for Gulf of Mexico properties will depend on prices prevailing during these relatively short production periods. 41Table of ContentsThe Company may record significant estimates of future asset retirement obligations and such estimates may vary from period to period due to its operations in the Gulf of Mexico. The Company is required to record a liability for the present value of asset retirement obligations to plug and abandon inactive, non-producing wells, to remove inactive or damaged platforms, facilities and equipment, and to restore the land or seabed at the end of oil and natural gas production operations. These costs are typically considerably more expensive for offshore operations as compared to most land-based operations, due to the logistical issues associated with working in waters of various depths and increased regulatory scrutiny. Estimating future restoration and removal costs in the Gulf of Mexico is especially difficult because most of the removal obligations may be many years in the future, regulatory requirements are subject to change or more restrictive interpretation, and asset removal technologies are constantly evolving, which may result in additional or increased costs. As a result, the Company’s acquisitions of offshore properties in 2012 may require the Company to make significant increases or decreases to estimated asset retirement obligations in future periods. For example, the Company’s platforms, facilities and equipment in the Gulf of Mexico are subject to damage or destruction as a result of hurricanes. The estimated cost to plug and abandon a well or dismantle a platform can change dramatically if the host platform from which the work was anticipated to be performed is damaged or toppled, rather than structurally intact. Accordingly, the Company’s increased operations in the Gulf of Mexico could cause its estimates of future asset retirement obligations to differ dramatically from what it may ultimately incur as a result of damage from a hurricane. Insurance may not protect the Company against business and operating risks associated with its properties in the Gulf of Mexico. The Company maintains insurance for some, but not all, of the potential risks and liabilities associated with its offshore properties. For some risks, the Company may not obtain insurance if it believes the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. Due to market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially and, in some instances, certain insurance policies are economically unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. Although the Company will maintain insurance at levels it believes are appropriate and consistent with industry practice, it will not be fully insured against all risks, including high-cost business interruption insurance and drilling and completion risks that are generally not recoverable from third parties or insurance. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Losses and liabilities from uninsured and underinsured events and delay in the payment of insurance proceeds could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Insurance costs have generally risen in recent years due to a number of catastrophic events, including Hurricanes Ivan, Katrina, Rita, Gustav and Ike, the Deepwater Horizon incident, the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and the 2011 Japanese tsunami. The offshore oil and natural gas industry suffered extensive damage from the previously mentioned hurricanes and, as a result, insurance costs related to offshore oil and gas operations have increased significantly compared to the cost of insuring onshore oil and gas production. Insurers are requiring higher retention levels and limit the amount of insurance proceeds that are available after a major windstorm in the event that damages are incurred. If storm activity in the future is as severe as it was in 2005 or 2008, insurance underwriters may no longer insure Gulf of Mexico assets against weather-related damage. In addition, the Company does not have in place, and does not intend to put in place, business interruption insurance due to its high cost. If an accident or other event results in damage to offshore operations, including severe weather, terrorist acts, war, civil disturbances, pollution or environmental damage, and such damage is not fully covered by insurance or a recoverable indemnity from a vendor, it could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, the Company may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates it considers reasonable or be able to obtain insurance against certain risks. 42Table of ContentsThe Company is subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting its operations or expose it to significant liabilities. The Company’s oil and natural gas exploration, production, transportation and treatment operations are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations. In order to conduct its operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, the Company must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities. The Company may incur substantial costs in order to maintain compliance with these laws and regulations. Further, in light of the explosion and fire on the drilling rig Deepwater Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico, as well as recent incidents involving the release of oil and natural gas and fluids as a result of drilling activities in the United States, there have been a variety of regulatory initiatives at the federal and state levels to restrict oil and natural gas drilling operations in certain locations. Any increased regulation or suspension of oil and natural gas exploration and production, or revision or reinterpretation of existing laws and regulations, that arises out of these incidents or otherwise could result in delays and higher operating costs. Such costs or significant delays could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company must also comply with laws and regulations prohibiting fraud and market manipulations in energy markets. To the extent the Company is a shipper on interstate pipelines, it must comply with the tariffs of such pipelines and with federal policies related to the use of interstate capacity.Laws and regulations governing oil and natural gas exploration and production may also affect production levels. The Company is required to comply with federal and state laws and regulations governing conservation matters, including provisions related to the unitization or pooling of the oil and natural gas properties; the establishment of maximum rates of production from wells; the spacing of wells; and the plugging and abandonment of wells. These and other laws and regulations can limit the amount of oil and natural gas the Company can produce from its wells, limit the number of wells it can drill, or limit the locations at which it can conduct drilling operations. New laws or regulations, or changes to existing laws or regulations, may unfavorably impact the Company, could result in increased operating costs and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. For example, Congress has recently considered, and may continue to consider, legislation that, if adopted in its proposed form, would subject companies involved in oil and natural gas exploration and production activities to, among other items, additional regulation of and restrictions on hydraulic fracturing of wells, and the elimination of most U.S. federal tax incentives and certain deductions available to oil and natural gas exploration and production activities. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) and rules promulgated thereunder could reduce trading positions in the energy futures or swaps markets and materially reduce hedging opportunities for the Company, which could adversely affect its revenues and cash flows during periods of low commodity prices, and which could adversely affect the Company’s ability to restructure its hedges when it might be desirable to do so. Additionally, state and federal regulatory authorities may expand or alter applicable pipeline safety laws and regulations, compliance with which may increase capital costs for the Company and third-party downstream oil and natural gas transporters. These and other potential regulations could increase the Company’s operating costs, reduce its liquidity, delay its operations, increase direct and third-party post production costs or otherwise alter the way the Company conducts its business, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and which could reduce cash received by or available for distribution, including any amounts paid by the Company for transportation on downstream interstate pipelines. The Company’s operations in the Gulf of Mexico may face broad adverse consequences resulting from increased regulation of offshore drilling operations as a result of the Deepwater Horizon incident, some of which may be unforeseeable. The April 2010 explosion and fire on the drilling rig Deepwater Horizon and resulting major oil spill produced significant economic, environmental and natural resource damage in the Gulf Coast region. In response to the explosion and spill, there have been many proposals by governmental and private constituencies to address the direct impact of the disaster and to prevent similar disasters in the future. The BOEMRE (formerly known as the Minerals Management Service), the agency within the U.S. Department of Interior formerly responsible for regulation of offshore energy production, issued a series of “Notices to Lessees and Operators” (“NTLs”), which imposed a variety of new safety measures and permitting requirements, and implemented a temporary moratorium on deepwater drilling activities in the Gulf of Mexico that effectively shut down deepwater drilling activities for six months in 2010. Despite the fact that the drilling moratorium was lifted, this spill and its aftermath have led to delays in obtaining drilling permits. The Company must interact with both the BOEM and the BSEE, which assumed the responsibilities of BOEMRE on October 1, 2011, to obtain approval of exploration and development plans and issuance of drilling permits for the Company’s properties in the Gulf of Mexico, which may result in added plan approval or drilling permit delays. While federal legislation previously was introduced to expedite the process for obtaining offshore permits that include limitations on the time frame for environmental and judicial review, there is no guarantee that this or similar legislation will be enacted.43Table of ContentsIn addition to the drilling restrictions, new safety measures and permitting requirement, there have been numerous additional proposed changes in laws, regulations, guidance and policy in response to the Deepwater Horizon explosion and oil spill that could affect offshore operations and cause the Company to incur substantial losses or expenditures. Implementation of any one or more of the various proposed responses to the disaster could materially adversely affect operations in the Gulf of Mexico by raising operating costs, increasing insurance premiums, delaying drilling operations and increasing regulatory costs and, further, could lead to a wide variety of other unforeseeable consequences that could make operations in the Gulf of Mexico more difficult, time consuming and costly.New regulatory requirements could significantly delay the Company’s ability to obtain permits to drill new wells in offshore waters. Following the Deepwater Horizon incident, the BOEMRE issued a series of NTLs and other regulatory requirements imposing new standards and permitting procedures for new wells to be drilled in federal waters of the Outer Continental Shelf. These requirements include the following: •The Environmental NTL, which imposes new and more stringent requirements for documenting the environmental impacts potentially associated with the drilling of a new offshore well and significantly increases documentation requirements regarding the ability to respond to oil spills.•The Statement of Compliance NTL, which imposes requirements for operators regarding well design, construction and flow intervention processes and demonstration of adequate resources to respond to and contain spills, and also requires certifications of compliance from senior corporate officers.•The Drilling Safety Rule, which prescribes tighter cementing and casing practices, imposes standards for the use of drilling fluids to maintain wellbore integrity, and stiffens oversight requirements relating to blowout preventers and their components, including shear and pipe rams.•The Workplace Safety Rule, which requires operators to have a comprehensive safety and environmental management system (“SEMS”) in order to reduce human and organizational errors as root causes of work-related accidents and offshore spills.In its current form, the rule requires a company’s SEMS to be audited by an independent third-party auditor or internal audit team who has been pre-approved by the agency to perform the auditing task. BSEE has also drafted a statement of policy announcing its expectation that all organizations and individuals working in outer continental shelf waters should establish and maintain a positive safety culture commensurate with the significance of their activities and the nature and complexity of their organizations and functions. As a result of the issuance of these new regulatory requirements, BSEE has been taking much longer than the Minerals Management Service and BOEMRE did in the past to review and approve permits for drilling operations. As a result, the Company may encounter increased costs associated with regulatory compliance and delays in obtaining permits for other operations such as recompletions, workovers and abandonment activities. The Company is unsure what long-term effect, if any, additional regulatory requirements and permitting procedures will have on offshore operations. The Company may become subject to a variety of unforeseen adverse consequences arising directly or indirectly from the Deepwater Horizon incident. New regulatory requirements could have a significant impact on the Company’s estimates of future asset retirement obligations from period to period. The Company is responsible for plugging and abandoning wellbores and decommissioning associated platforms, pipelines and facilities on its acquired oil and natural gas properties. In addition to the NTLs discussed in the above risk factors, the BOEMRE issued an NTL that became effective in October 2010, which established more stringent requirements for the timely decommissioning of wells, platforms and pipelines that are no longer producing or serving exploration or support functions related to an operator’s lease in the Gulf of Mexico. This NTL requires that any well that has not been used during the past five years for exploration or production or any infrastructure to support these operations on an active lease and is no longer capable of producing in paying quantities must be permanently plugged or temporarily abandoned within three years. Plugging or abandonment of wells may be delayed by two years if all of the well’s hydrocarbon and sulphur zones are appropriately isolated. Similarly, platforms or other facilities that are no longer useful for operations because they have been toppled or destroyed or have not been used in the past five years for exploration, production or for infrastructure to support such operation must be removed within five years. These regulations affecting plugging, abandonment and removal activities may increase, perhaps materially, the future plugging, abandonment and removal costs associated with the Company’s offshore properties, which may translate into a need to increase the estimate of future asset retirement obligations required to meet such increased costs. Moreover, implementation of this NTL could likely result in increased demand for salvage contractors and equipment, resulting in increased estimates of plugging, abandonment and removal costs and increases in related asset retirement obligations.44Table of ContentsThe Company’s operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting operations or result in significant costs and liabilities. The Company’s oil and natural gas exploration and production operations are subject to stringent and comprehensive federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations that are applicable to operations, including the acquisition of a permit before conducting drilling; water withdrawal or waste disposal activities; the restriction of types, quantities and concentration of materials that can be released into the environment; the limitation or prohibition of drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; the imposition of regulations designed to protect employees from exposure to hazardous substances; and the imposition of substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from operations. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the EPA and analogous state agencies, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, often requiring difficult and costly actions. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in litigation; the assessment of administrative, civil or criminal penalties; the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations; and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of the Company’s operations.There is inherent risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in the performance of the Company’s operations due to its handling of petroleum hydrocarbons and wastes, because of air emissions and wastewater discharges related to its operations, and as a result of historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. Under certain environmental laws and regulations, the Company could be subject to joint and several strict liability for the investigation, removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination regardless of whether it was responsible for the release or contamination or whether the operations were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. Private parties, including the owners of properties upon which the Company’s wells are drilled and facilities where its petroleum hydrocarbons or wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance, as well as to seek damages for contamination even in the absence of non-compliance, with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury, natural resources damage or property damage.In addition, the risk of accidental spills or releases could expose the Company to significant liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. Certain laws related to oil spills impose joint and several strict liability, without regard to fault, for all containment and oil removal costs and a variety of public and private damages including, but not limited to, the costs of responding to a release of oil, natural resource damages, and economic damages suffered by persons adversely affected by an oil spill. Although defenses exist to the liability imposed by those laws, they are limited. If an oil discharge or substantial threat of discharge were to occur, the Company may be liable for costs and damages, which costs and damages could be material to its results of operations and financial position.Further, certain laws require owners and operators of offshore oil production facilities to establish and maintain evidence of financial responsibility to cover costs that could be incurred in responding to an oil spill. As a result of the Deepwater Horizon incident, legislation was introduced, but not adopted, to increase the minimum level of financial responsibility. Whether similar legislation will be introduced and adopted in the future is unknown. If such legislation were to be adopted, the requirement could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations.Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly construction, drilling, water management, completion, waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require significant expenditures by the Company to attain and maintain compliance and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. The Company may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance. As a result of any increased cost of compliance, the Company may decide to discontinue drilling. 45Table of ContentsFederal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives as well as governmental reviews relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays as well as adversely affect the Company’s level of production. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons from tight formations, such as shales. The process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. Hydraulic fracturing is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions; however, the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority over certain hydraulic fracturing practices, including the use of diesel, kerosene and similar compounds in fracturing fluid. In August 2012, the EPA issued final Clean Air Act regulations governing performance standards, including standards for the capture of air emissions released during hydraulic fracturing. However, in January 2013 the EPA submitted an unopposed motion to the United States Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit seeking to stay legal challenges to the Clean Air Act regulations while the EPA reconsiders portions of the new rules. Also, legislation has been introduced, but not enacted, in Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the fracturing process. In May 2012, the Bureau of Land Management within the U.S. Department of the Interior issued a proposed rule containing disclosure requirements and other mandates for hydraulic fracturing on federal lands, but in January 2013 it announced that it would be submitting a revised proposed rule. That revised proposed rule is expected to be published in the first quarter of 2013.Certain states in which the Company operates, including Texas, Kansas and Oklahoma, and municipalities have adopted, or are considering adopting, regulations that have imposed, or that could impose, more stringent permitting, disclosure, disposal and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. For example, in February 2012, the Railroad Commission of Texas implemented the Fracturing Disclosure Rule, requiring public disclosure of all the chemicals in fluids used in the hydraulic fracturing process. Local ordinances or other regulations may regulate or prohibit the performance of well drilling in general and hydraulic fracturing in particular. If new laws or regulations that significantly restrict or regulate hydraulic fracturing are adopted at either the state or the federal level, the Company’s fracturing activities could become subject to additional permit requirements, reporting requirements or operational restrictions and also to associated permitting delays, or additional costs could adversely affect the determination of whether a well is commercially viable. Restrictions on hydraulic fracturing could also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that the Company is ultimately able to produce in commercial quantities.In addition to asserting regulatory authority, a number of federal entities are analyzing, or have been requested to review, a variety of environmental issues associated with hydraulic fracturing. In April 2012, President Obama issued an executive order that established a working group for the purpose of coordinating policy, information sharing, and planning among federal agencies and offices regarding “unconventional natural gas production,” including hydraulic fracturing. In December 2012, the EPA issued an initial progress report on a study begun in 2011 of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater, with a final report expected to be issued in late 2014. The EPA has also announced its intent to propose by 2014 effluent limit guidelines that waste water from shale gas extraction operations must meet before going to a treatment plant; the agency also projects that it will publish an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking regarding Toxic Substances Control Act reporting of the chemical substances and mixtures used in hydraulic fracturing. Additionally, a committee of the United States House of Representatives has conducted an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices, and certain members of Congress have called upon the U.S. Government Accountability Office to investigate how hydraulic fracturing might adversely affect water resources; the SEC to investigate the natural gas industry and any possible misleading of investors or the public regarding the economic feasibility of pursuing natural gas deposits in shales by means of hydraulic fracturing; and the U.S. Energy Information Administration to provide a better understanding of that agency’s estimates regarding natural gas reserves, including reserves from shale formations, as well as uncertainties associated with those estimates. Bills previously have been introduced in both the Senate and the House of Representatives to, among other things, amend the federal Safe Drinking Water Act to repeal provisions that currently exempt hydraulic fracturing operations from restrictions that otherwise would apply to underground injection of fluids or propping agents. The studies and initiatives described above, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could spur efforts to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the Safe Drinking Water Act or other regulatory mechanisms.46Table of ContentsClimate change laws and regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas that the Company produces while the physical effects of climate change could disrupt the Company’s production and cause the Company to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects. In December 2009, the EPA published its findings that emissions of GHGs present a danger to public health and the environment because such gases are contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings allow the EPA to adopt and implement regulations that would restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the Clean Air Act. Accordingly, the EPA has adopted rules that require a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and also trigger Clean Air Act construction and operating permit review for GHG emissions from certain stationary sources. The EPA’s endangerment finding and GHG rules were upheld by the United States Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit in a June 2012 decision, and a petition for review of the case by the entire D.C. Circuit was denied in December 2012.The EPA also has adopted rules requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from onshore and offshore oil and natural gas production and processing facilities in the United States on an annual basis. The Company believes it has complied with all applicable reporting requirements to date. However, the adoption and implementation of any regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHGs from, the Company’s equipment and operations could require it to incur additional costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with its operations or could adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas that it produces. Finally, to the extent increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that could have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, floods and other climatic events, such events could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s assets and operations, and potentially subject the Company to greater regulation.In addition, Congress has considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs and more than half of the states have begun taking actions to control and/or reduce emissions of GHGs, primarily through the adoption of a climate change action plan, completion of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs. Any future federal laws or implemented regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions could require the Company to incur increased operating costs, adversely affect demand for the oil and natural gas that the Company produces and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.Repercussions from terrorist activities or armed conflict could harm the Company’s business. Terrorist activities, anti-terrorist efforts or other armed conflict involving the United States or its interests abroad may adversely affect the United States and global economies and could prevent the Company from meeting its financial and other obligations. If events of this nature occur and persist, the attendant political instability and societal disruption could reduce overall demand for oil and natural gas, potentially putting downward pressure on prevailing oil and natural gas prices and causing a reduction in the Company’s revenues. Oil and natural gas production facilities, transportation systems and storage facilities could be direct targets of terrorist attacks, and/or operations could be adversely impacted if infrastructure integral to the Company’s operations is destroyed by such an attack. Costs for insurance and other security may increase as a result of these threats, and some insurance coverage may become more difficult to obtain, if available at all. If the Company fails to maintain an adequate system of internal control over financial reporting, it could adversely affect its ability to accurately report its results. Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. The Company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that results in a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Effective internal controls are necessary for the Company to provide reliable financial reports and deter and detect any material fraud. If the Company cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent material fraud, its reputation and operating results would be harmed. The Company’s efforts to develop and maintain its internal controls may not be successful, and it may be unable to maintain adequate controls over its financial processes and reporting in the future, including future compliance with the obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any failure to develop or maintain effective controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, including those related to acquired businesses, or other effective improvement of the Company’s internal controls could harm its operating results. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in the Company’s reported financial information. 47Table of ContentsCertain U.S. federal income tax preferences currently available with respect to oil and natural gas production may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. The Obama administration’s budget proposals in recent years, including the budget proposal for fiscal year 2013, have included provisions eliminating certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and gas exploration and production. If enacted into law, these provisions would eliminate certain tax preferences applicable to taxpayers engaged in the exploration or production of natural resources. These provisions include, but are not limited to (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for United States production activities and (iv) the increase in the amortization period from two years to seven years for geophysical costs paid or incurred in connection with the exploration for, or development of, oil and gas within the United States. It is unclear whether any similar provisions will be included in future budget proposals, whether such provisions will actually be enacted or how soon any such provisions would become effective if enacted. The passage of any legislation relating to such proposals or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could negatively affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. New derivatives legislation and regulation could adversely affect the Company’s ability to hedge risks associated with its business. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new regulatory framework for oversight of derivatives transactions by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”) and the SEC. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act subjects certain swap participants to new capital, margin and business conduct standards. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act contemplates that where appropriate in light of outstanding exposures, trading liquidity and other factors, swaps (broadly defined to include most hedging instruments other than futures) will be required to be cleared through a registered clearing facility and traded on a designated exchange or swap execution facility. The Dodd-Frank Act also established a new Energy and Environmental Markets Advisory Committee to make recommendations to the CFTC regarding matters of concern to exchanges, firms, end users and regulators with respect to energy and environmental markets and also expands the CFTC’s power to impose position limits on specific categories of swaps (excluding swaps entered into for bona fide hedging purposes).There are some exceptions to these requirements for entities that use swaps to hedge or mitigate commercial risk. However, although the Company may qualify for exceptions, its derivatives counterparties may be subject to new capital, margin and business conduct requirements imposed as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, which may increase the Company’s transaction costs or make it more difficult for the Company to enter into hedging transactions on favorable terms. The Company’s inability to enter into hedging transactions on favorable terms, or at all, could increase its operating expenses and put it at increased exposure to risks of adverse changes in oil and natural gas prices, which could adversely affect the predictability of cash flows from sales of oil and natural gas. In November 2011, the CFTC finalized rules to establish a position limits regime on certain “core” physical-delivery contracts and their economically equivalent derivatives, some of which reference major energy commodities, including oil and natural gas. The final rules became effective on January 17, 2012 and compliance with the rules was to have become mandatory on October 12, 2012. However, on September 28, 2012 the District Court of the District of Columbia vacated the CFTC’s rulemaking and remanded to the CFTC for further proceedings. On November 15, 2012, the CFTC voted to appeal the District Court’s ruling. It is not clear what regulatory action, if any, the CFTC will take in response to the court’s decision. However, regulations that subject the Company or its derivatives counterparties to limits on commodity positions could have an adverse effect on its ability to hedge risks associated with its business or on the cost of its hedging activity. 48Table of ContentsOur business could be negatively affected as a result of a consent solicitation and/or proxy contest.One of the Company’s stockholders, TPG-Axon Partners, LP, and certain of its affiliates (collectively, “TPG-Axon”) currently is soliciting the written consents of our stockholders to three actions being proposed by TPG-Axon. Specifically, TPG-Axon is proposing to: (1) amend the Company’s bylaws to de-stagger the Board by providing that directors will be elected for one-year terms, provide that the size of the Board may be fixed by either a majority vote of the Board or vote of the stockholders, provide that vacancies on the Board may be filled by the stockholders or by a majority vote of the remaining directors of the Board, and provide that directors may be removed with or without cause; (2) remove, without cause, all seven current members of the Board; and (3) elect as directors TPG-Axon’s own nominees (the “TPG-Axon Nominees”). TPG-Axon has further advocated for the removal of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and the engagement of an advisor to explore strategic alternatives, including a potential sale of the Company. The Company’s business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely affected by TPG-Axon’s consent solicitation because, among other things:•considering and responding to the consent solicitation and related actions by TPG-Axon, including, but not limited to, issues related to the qualifications of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, Board and management, has been, and may continue to be, disruptive, costly and time-consuming, and a significant distraction for the Company’s management and employees;•perceived uncertainties as to the Company’s future direction, including, but not limited to, uncertainties related to the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, Board and management as well as the Company’s future status, may result in the loss of potential business opportunities and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel;•if the TPG-Axon Nominees are elected to the Company’s Board of Directors and the Company’s Chief Executive Officer or other senior executives are removed, it may adversely affect the Company’s ability to create additional value for its stockholders by effectively implementing its business strategy;•the removal and replacement of a majority of the Board of Directors as a result of the TPG-Axon consent solicitation could constitute a “change of control” under certain of the Company’s material agreements, which could have material adverse consequences under such agreements; •the removal and replacement of a majority of the Board as a result of TPG-Axon’s consent solicitation would result in the accelerated vesting of a substantial number of shares of restricted stock held by employees and senior management, reducing the effectiveness of the restricted stock awards as tools for retaining individuals with expertise in the Company’s key operating areas; and•the actions taken by TPG-Axon have created an environment conducive to follow-on litigation, described below under Item 3, which serves as a further distraction to the Company’s management and employees and requires it to incur significant costs. Costs associated with the consent solicitation, related actions, and litigation may be substantial. Further, if determined adversely, such litigation could harm the Company’s business and have a material adverse effect on its results of operations.In addition, the future trading price of the Company’s common stock could be subject to wide fluctuation based on the uncertainty associated with TPG-Axon’s consent solicitation.If TPG-Axon is unsuccessful in its consent solicitation, it or other stockholders may pursue similar goals at the Company’s 2013 annual meeting of stockholders, including by means of a proxy contest, which could result in the same adverse effects described above.49Table of ContentsItem 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.50Table of Contents