Item 1A. Risk Factors RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY We have a history of operating losses and may not maintain profitability. Although we have attained and maintained profitability since the three months ended December 31, 2005, we have accumulated significant operating losses since our inception. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $69 million. In addition, we have historically experienced considerable quarter-to-quarter variation in our results of operations and may not generate sufficient revenues from product sales in the future to maintain profitable operations. Further, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. In particular, we may not be able to maintain profitability in the future as we expand our manufacturing capabilities, fund our research and development activities and seek additional regulatory approvals. If we are unable to maintain profitability, the market value of our common stock will decline. We have an exclusive relationship with Ethicon relating to the distribution and development of our fibrin sealant and other hemostasis products, and our resulting dependence on Ethicon exposes us to significant product commercialization and development risks. In September 2003, we entered into a distribution and supply agreement and a development agreement with Ethicon. Under the distribution and supply agreement, we granted to Ethicon the exclusive right, in certain territories, to market, sell and distribute Crosseal/Quixil, our first generation fibrin sealant product, and other fibrin sealant and hemostasis products that are being developed under the development agreement, for use in professional medical settings for hemostasis and sealing indications. Under the distribution and supply agreement, we are required to supply finished products to Ethicon, and they are required to purchase a minimum amount of these products from us. Additionally, under the development agreement we are developing new products with Ethicon, including Evicel and our Fibrin Patch product candidate. As part of the development agreement, Ethicon has agreed to devote internal resources to the development of products included in the collaboration and to pay all of the agreed to development costs as well as half of our development-related labor costs. Our revenues from the sale of Crosseal/Evicel and Quixil, and the revenues for any other product that Ethicon distributes under the agreement, will depend heavily on the efforts of Ethicon. Ethicon has significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources it applies to sales of our products. Furthermore, regardless of the effort and resources it invests, Ethicon may not be effective in marketing our products. In addition, Ethicon is a large medical device company with global operations and its own corporate agenda, which may not be consistent with our best interests. For example, Ethicon may develop competing products and reduce its marketing and development support for our products and product candidates, which would reduce our revenues. The initial terms of the distribution and supply agreement and the development agreement expire in September 2013. The development agreement is subject to earlier termination if work has been completed and milestone payments made, or if there is a material breach by either party and such breach has not been cured, or upon the bankruptcy or insolvency of either party. The development agreement is also subject to automatic termination if the distribution and supply agreement is terminated. Ethicon may terminate the distribution and supply agreement: • for any or no reason at any time after March 23, 2006 by providing us with at least six months prior written notice and complying with certain other conditions; • upon our material breach or non-compliance with applicable law and if such breach or non-compliance is not cured; or • upon our bankruptcy or similar insolvency event. 26 Table of Contents Further, we are required under the distribution and supply agreement to supply Ethicon with minimum product quantities based on forecasts provided to us by Ethicon. If we are unable to satisfy these supply obligations, we will be obligated to pay to Ethicon a liquidated damages penalty and Ethicon may terminate the agreement. If our relationship with Ethicon were to terminate, we would have to either enter into a marketing and distribution arrangement with another party or market and distribute these products ourselves. We may not be able to enter into such an agreement with another company with similar resources to commercialize these products and perform these functions on acceptable terms or at all. To market and distribute these products on our own, we would first have to develop a sales and marketing organization and a distribution infrastructure, neither of which we currently have. Developing these resources would be an expensive and lengthy process and would have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Moreover, a termination of our relationship with Ethicon would seriously compromise the development program for our hemostasis product candidates. For example: • we would experience significant delays in the development of any product candidate then in development, including our Fibrin Patch; • we would have to assume full responsibility for further development, including funding these programs; and • we would lose access to Ethicon intellectual property that relates to products covered by the development agreement, and as a result we might be unable to develop these products at all. Any of these outcomes would result in delays in our ability to distribute our products and commercialize our product candidates and would increase our expenses, all of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our collaboration with Ethicon is multi-faceted and involves a complex sharing of control over decisions, responsibilities, costs and benefits. There are numerous potential sources of disagreement between us and Ethicon, including those with respect to product development, marketing strategies, manufacturing and supply issues and rights relating to intellectual property. For example, the distribution and supply agreement provides that we and Ethicon are to negotiate the transfer price at which we will supply the Fibrin Patch to Ethicon. We expect that if this product candidate is successfully developed and commercialized, it will be an important element of our relationship with Ethicon and a source of significant revenues to us. However, we have not yet reached agreement with Ethicon on pricing, and we may be unable do so. Ethicon has significantly greater financial and managerial resources than we do, which it could draw upon in the event of a dispute. A disagreement between Ethicon and us could lead to lengthy and expensive dispute resolution proceedings as well as to extensive financial and operational consequences to us, and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If our products do not achieve market acceptance, we will be unable to generate significant revenues from them. The commercial success of our products will depend primarily on convincing surgeons, physicians, hospital pharmacists and other medical practitioners to use our products. To accomplish this, we, together with our collaborators, such as Ethicon and any other marketing or distribution collaborators, will have to convince members of the medical community of the benefits of our products through, for example, published papers, presentations at scientific conferences and additional clinical trials. Medical providers will not use our products unless we can demonstrate that they consistently produce results comparable or superior to existing products and have acceptable safety profiles and costs. If we are not successful in these efforts, market acceptance of our products could be limited. Additionally, we do not have long term safety data for many of our products, particularly our fibrin sealant products. If long term patient studies suggest that the use of our products or similar products produced by others are associated with adverse side effects, our products may not achieve market 27 Table of Contents acceptance. Even if we demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of our products, surgeons, physicians and other medical practitioners may continue to use other products simply because those products are already widely accepted or are based on established technologies. Additional factors that might influence market acceptance of our products include: • convenience and ease of use; • availability of alternative and competing products or therapies; • effectiveness of our or our collaborators’ marketing, distribution and pricing strategies; and • publicity concerning our products as well as our competitors’ products. If, due to any of these factors, our products do not achieve broad market acceptance, we will be unable to generate significant revenues from them, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows and results of operations. We may not be able to successfully develop and commercialize our product candidates, including Evicel or Fibrin Patch. Our future growth will depend in large part on our ability to develop successfully, obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize our product candidates, including our: • second generation fibrin sealant, Evicel, as an adjunct to general hemostasis; • Fibrin Patch, for the management and rapid control of bleeding, including severe or brisk bleeding, and for use on active bleeding sites; • thrombin stand-alone and a flowable thrombin, for specific surgical applications; and • HT-VIG for smallpox vaccine-related complications and treatment of side effects and the prevention of the side effects of vaccination against smallpox. We will have to conduct significant additional tests with respect to these product candidates, including clinical trials, and obtain regulatory approval before we can commercialize them. To market a product for the treatment of a disease or for surgical use, we must demonstrate to the applicable regulatory authorities, such as the FDA and the EMEA, that the product is safe and effective for its intended use. Product development is a long, expensive and uncertain process and entails both preclinical testing, which consists of laboratory testing using chemical and animal models, as well as clinical testing, which consists of using the product candidate in humans in a clinical setting. We are currently conducting clinical trials on four product candidates and preclinical studies on one product candidate, and we expect to conduct additional trials and studies in the future. It takes several years to complete regulatory testing for a product candidate, and failure can occur at any stage. We may suffer significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after obtaining promising results in earlier studies. At any point during clinical trials, undesirable side effects could be detected. These side effects could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials of the product candidate being tested and related product candidates and could result in the FDA, the EMEA or other regulatory authorities denying approval of such product candidates for any or all targeted indications. Based on results at any stage of product development, we may decide to repeat or redesign preclinical studies or clinical trials, conduct entirely new studies or discontinue development of one or more of our product candidates. In addition, our product candidates may not demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy in pending or any future 28 Table of Contents preclinical testing or clinical trials to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals and even if such approvals are obtained for a product candidate, it may never become a viable commercial product. If the third parties with which we contract for preclinical studies and clinical trials do not perform in an acceptable manner, or if we suffer setbacks in these clinical trials, we may be unable to develop and commercialize our product candidates as anticipated. We rely on third parties, including Ethicon, contract research organizations and outside consultants, to assist us in managing and monitoring all of our preclinical studies and clinical trials. If any of these parties terminate their agreements with us, the development of the product candidates covered by those agreements could be substantially delayed. In addition, these third parties may not successfully carry out their contractual obligations, meet expected deadlines or follow regulatory requirements, including clinical, laboratory and manufacturing guidelines. Our reliance on these third parties may result in delays in completing, or in failing to complete, these trials if they fail to perform with the speed and competency we expect. Further, if any of these parties fail to perform their obligations under our agreements with them in the manner specified in those agreements and in the trial design, the FDA may not accept the data generated by those trials, which would increase the cost of and the development time for that product candidate. If clinical testing of our product candidates is compromised for any of the above-mentioned reasons, we will be unable to meet our anticipated development or commercialization timelines, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. If the limited number of suppliers on which we rely fail to supply us with the raw materials and other components we use in manufacturing our products, we might be unable to satisfy product demand. We depend on third parties for the supply of certain raw materials we use to produce our products as well as for important components of our products. The raw materials we use in our production processes consist primarily of plasma, synthetic materials and chemicals and other disposable materials. We purchase each of the following raw materials and disposables for our marketed products from single suppliers: • nanofiltration filters, which we use for virus removal and purchase from Asahi Kasei Pharma Corporation; • a resin, which we use to remove plasminogen and produce BAC II, and purchase from Amersham Biosciences AB; • the specialized application device, which we sell as part of our Evicel and Quixil product packages and purchase from PlastMed Ltd., or Plastmed; and • tranexamic acid, which we use as a stabilizing agent in Quixil and purchase from Daiichi Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd. Our reliance on these suppliers exposes us to significant risks. These third parties might: • be unable or unwilling to provide us with sufficient materials to meet our demands; • fail to meet our standards of quality or other specifications; • increase significantly the prices they charge us for materials; or • not carry out their contractual duties or meet anticipated deadlines, which could result in delays in obtaining or maintaining regulatory approvals or in satisfying customer orders. If our sole suppliers are unwilling or unable to timely supply us with materials meeting our specifications, we may not be able to locate any alternative suppliers or enter into commercially reasonable agreements with suppliers in a timely manner or at all. Even if we are able to locate, qualify and enter into an agreement with a new supplier, it 29 Table of Contents would take approximately six to twelve months to obtain regulatory clearance before a new supplier could begin supplying the relevant product to us. If we are delayed in establishing a secondary supply source for any raw material or component that we purchase from a single source, or cannot do so at an acceptable cost, we may suffer a shortage of commercial supply of that product or a higher cost of procuring the product, either of which would have a material adverse effect on our revenues, business and financial prospects. We have long term agreements with all of our sole suppliers, except for Daiichi Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd. A disruption at our sole manufacturing site would significantly interrupt our production capabilities, which could have drastic consequences to us, including threatening our financial viability. We currently manufacture all of our products at our sole commercial manufacturing facility, which is located near Tel Aviv, Israel. Accordingly, we face risks inherent in operating a single manufacturing facility, since any disruption, such as a fire, natural disaster, terrorist attack or military action, could significantly interrupt our manufacturing capability. These risks are exacerbated by the facility’s location in Israel, an area that has historically experienced significant geopolitical instability, including the recent sharp increase in hostilities along Israel’s northern border between Israel and Hezbollah, a Lebanese Islamist Shiite militia group and political party, involving missile strikes against civilian targets in northern Israel and to a lesser extent between Israel and the Hamas militia in the Gaza Strip. Our new manufacturing plant, which we have commenced building, will be located in Jerusalem, Israel and will therefore be subject to many of the risks to which our current manufacturing facility is subject. We currently do not have alternative production plans in place or disaster-recovery facilities available. In case of a disruption, we will have to establish alternative manufacturing sources. This would require substantial capital on our part, which we may not be able to obtain on commercially acceptable terms or at all. Additionally, we would likely experience months or years of production delays as we build or locate replacement facilities and seek and obtain necessary regulatory approvals. If this occurs, we will be unable to satisfy customer orders on a timely basis, if at all. In addition, a disruption at our sole manufacturing site may impair or delay our ability to meet product demands by Ethicon and we would be in breach of our agreement with them. Also, operating any new facilities may be more expensive than operating our current facility. Further, our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur and we would have to bear the additional cost of any disruption. For these reasons, a significant disruptive event at our manufacturing facility could have drastic consequences on us, including threatening our financial viability. As described below, we are currently in the process of establishing a second manufacturing facility located in Jerusalem, Israel. Once this facility is operational we may close the original facility. Even if we maintain both facilities, we would still be subject to a significant risk of disruption if either facility experiences a disruption. If we are unable to expand our manufacturing capacity as planned, we may be unable to satisfy demand for our products. We believe we will have to expand our manufacturing capacity to meet anticipated demand for our products. We are currently planning to increase production capacity for fibrin sealant products at our existing facility to meet anticipated demand through 2008 and have started constructing a new facility in Jerusalem, Israel to meet our needs thereafter. We may not be able to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for the increase in production capacity at our existing facility on a timely basis, or at all, and while we believe that our new facility will be completed in 2009, we may not be able to complete the construction of this facility within our anticipated time frame or budget. Even if we complete the construction in a timely manner, we may not be able to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for the facility on a timely basis, or at all. If we cannot obtain necessary approvals for these contemplated expansions, or complete the planned construction, in a timely manner, our ability to meet demand for our products would be adversely affected. Additionally, under our distribution and supply agreement with Ethicon, we are required to supply their anticipated demand for the fibrin sealant products covered by the agreement. This may require that we develop additional manufacturing capacity on a timely basis to meet those demands. To the extent that we are unable to expand our 30 Table of Contents manufacturing capacity as anticipated, our ability to meet product demands by Ethicon could be impaired or delayed and we would be in breach of our agreement with them. If our competitors develop and market products faster than we do or if those products are more effective than our products, our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated. The biopharmaceutical industry is characterized by intense competition and rapidly evolving technology. Many of our competitors have significantly greater resources and expertise than we do in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing and clinical trials, regulatory matters and marketing and sales. These organizations also compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials and acquiring and licensing technologies. If we, in collaboration with Ethicon or any other marketing partner we may have, cannot successfully compete with new or existing products or technologies, sales of our products and our profitability will suffer. Competitors may use their extensive resources to develop products that are more effective, safer, more convenient or less costly than any that we are developing. Our ability to compete effectively will depend in part on our ability to continually enhance and introduce new indications for our existing products and develop or acquire and market new products. Our products are derived from human plasma, and are therefore subject to the risk of biological contamination inherent in plasma-derived products. This risk could adversely affect our ability to obtain raw materials and market our products. Our fibrin sealants and passive immunotherapy products are derived from donated human plasma. Many disease-causing viruses, bacteria and other pathogens are present in the plasma of infected individuals. If infected individuals donate plasma, the plasma would likely contain those pathogens. As a result, the sourcing of plasma, and the production of products derived from plasma, is regulated extensively by the FDA, EMEA and other medical product and health care regulatory agencies. We rely on our suppliers to maintain compliance with regulations promulgated by such agencies. The failure to comply with these regulations or the accidental contamination of plasma could adversely affect our ability to source plasma at commercially reasonable prices. Moreover, public perception about the safety of plasma-derived products could adversely affect the market for our products. Concern over the safety of plasma-derived products, driven in part by past screening failures in the industry and the appearance of new infectious agents like HIV, has resulted in the adoption of rigorous screening procedures by regulatory authorities, and screening procedures are likely to become stricter and more involved over time. As screening procedures have become more rigorous, potential donors have been disqualified and other potential donors have been discouraged from donating due to their reluctance to undergo the required screening procedures. Increasingly stringent measures could adversely affect plasma supplies, with a corresponding adverse effect on our ability to obtain raw materials at a commercially acceptable price or at all. The safety concerns associated with plasma-derived products also affect our ability to market our products. Medical events or studies that raise or substantiate concerns about the safety of our or other similar products would negatively impact public perception of all plasma-derived products and of the plasma donation process. Further, any failure in screening, whether by us or by other manufacturers of these products, could adversely affect our reputation, the support we receive from the medical community and overall demand for our products. If our sole supplier of plasma for manufacture of our WNIG product candidate on which we rely fails to supply us with plasma, we might be unable to manufacture our WNIG product candidate. The development of our WNIG product candidate requires the purchase of donated plasma that contains antibodies against the West Nile fever virus. We purchase this plasma from a single source in Israel. If this third party is unable or unwilling to provide us with sufficient quantities of plasma to meet our demands or fails to meet our standards of quality or other specification, we may not be able to locate any alternative suppliers or enter into 31 Table of Contents commercially reasonable agreements with suppliers in a timely manner or at all. Consequently, even if we are able to get appropriate regulatory approvals for our WNIG product candidate, but are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of plasma for commercial manufacturing, we may not be able to manufacture our WNIG product candidate. Our international operations expose us to the risk of fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We operate in international markets. We generate significant revenues and incur operating expenses outside the U.S. principally in New Israeli Shekels, or NIS, and Euros. However, the amount of our revenues denominated in a particular currency typically varies from the amount of expenses denominated in that currency, which exposes us to losses resulting from currency fluctuations. In 2006, the percentages of our revenues and expenses denominated in U.S. dollars, NIS and Euros were as follows: Currency Revenues Expenses U.S. dollars 61 % 67 % NIS — 24 % Euros 6 % 7 % GBP 33 % 1 % Other — 1 % Our NIS and Euro denominated expenses consist principally of salaries and related personnel expenses, as well as lease payments. We anticipate that a material portion of our expenses will continue to be denominated in NIS and Euros. In addition, we were paid in British pounds under the contract we were awarded by the United Kingdom to provide VIG to the United Kingdom Department of Health. If the U.S. dollar weakens against the NIS or Euro, there will be an adverse impact on our profit margins. Similarly, if the U.S. dollar strengthens against a currency in which we record revenues, the dollar-denominated amount of those revenues would be reduced. In addition, our financial statements are stated in U.S. dollars while the intercompany balances of our Belgian subsidiary’s financial reports are denominated in Euros. The majority of inter-company balances with our Belgium subsidiary were eliminated to date. Also currency fluctuations will increase or decrease our cost structure relative to those of our competitors, which could affect the demand for our products and affect our competitive position. We currently do not undertake any hedging activities to address these fluctuations. If we lose the services of our key management or scientific personnel, scientific collaborators or other advisors, our business would suffer. The success of our business is highly dependent on our management as well as our senior manufacturing and scientific personnel. We also rely on our scientific collaborators and other advisors, particularly with respect to our research and development efforts. In addition, we require additional skilled personnel in areas such as business and clinical development. We do not maintain key-person life insurance on any of our officers, employees or consultants. In addition, although we have employment agreements with key members of management, each of our employees, subject to applicable notice requirements, may terminate his or her employment at any time. The pool of individuals with relevant experience in biopharmaceuticals is limited, and retaining and training personnel with the skills necessary to operate our business effectively is challenging, costly and time-consuming. If we lose the services of any key personnel, which includes Robert Taub, Nissim Mashiach and Michael Burshtine, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 32 Table of Contents If product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we might incur substantial liabilities and could be required to limit the commercialization of our products. We are exposed to the risk of product liability claims inherent in businesses that test, manufacture, market and sell biopharmaceutical products. We may be subject to claims against us even if the injury is due to the actions of others. For example, if the medical personnel that use our products on patients are not properly trained or are negligent in the use of our products, the patient may be injured through the use of our product, which may subject us to claims. In addition, because our products are derived from human plasma, they may be contaminated by viruses, bacteria or other pathogens despite our screening, virus removal and other safety procedures. Should this occur, patients could become infected by these pathogens through the use of our products. Moreover, our safety procedures have been designed based on our knowledge of known pathogens. Occasionally, new pathogens appear and contaminate blood supplied prior to their being identified as a health threat, as was the case with HIV. Our safety procedures might be inadequate to guard against any such new pathogen. If we are involved in any product liability litigation, such litigation would consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the litigation. Although we believe we have appropriate insurance coverage, we may not be able to maintain our clinical trial insurance or product liability insurance at an acceptable cost or at all. In any event, liability insurance is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations and may not provide adequate coverage against potential claims or losses. A successful product liability claim brought against us could cause us to incur substantial liabilities. Our operations involve biological and hazardous materials that may cause injury for which we could be liable for damages. Our manufacturing and research and development activities sometimes involve the controlled use and disposal of potentially harmful biological materials, hazardous materials, chemicals and infectious disease agents. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling, storing and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by applicable regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from these materials. We also occasionally contract with third parties for the disposal of some of these materials. In addition, our collaborators and service providers may be working with these types of materials in connection with our collaborations. In the event of an accident or contamination, we could be held responsible for any injury caused to persons or property by exposure to, or release of, these materials and could be held liable for significant damages, civil penalties or fines, which may not be covered by or may exceed our insurance coverage. Additionally, we are subject on an ongoing basis to a variety of laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and specified waste products. The cost of continued compliance with current or new laws and regulations might be significant and could negatively affect our profitability, and current or future environmental regulation may impair our ongoing research, development or manufacturing efforts. Variable demand by governments for passive immunotherapy products for biodefense applications or our inability to obtain additional government contracts for such products may reduce our revenues from this area of our passive immunotherapy product line. We provide passive immunotherapy products to governments to meet potential bioterrorism threats. Revenues from our passive immunotherapy products for biodefense applications are unpredictable and are driven by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • fluctuations in government demand for passive immunotherapy products for biodefense applications influenced by budgetary preference and shifts in the perception of the relevance of a bioterrorism threat; • the termination of key government contracts; • our success in obtaining additional government contracts through a bidding process; and • the development of new biodefense products that are superior to or eliminate the need for our products. 33 Table of Contents Even if our products are in demand, we may not be able to obtain follow-on and additional government contracts. Our inability to obtain such contracts may be significant because during certain periods these contracts may account for a substantial portion of our revenues. For example, in December 2005, we were awarded a total of approximately $20 million contract by the United Kingdom to provide VIG to the United Kingdom Department of Health, under which we were paid through the third quarter of 2006. This contract has now been concluded. If contracts of such volume are not issued by governments or we are unable to obtain them, our revenues from this area of our passive immunotherapy product line will be reduced. RISKS RELATED TO GOVERNMENT REGULATION The regulatory approval process for our product candidates is lengthy, and we may not be able to obtain all of the regulatory approvals required to manufacture and commercialize our product candidates. Many of our products are still under development, and we will not be able to commercialize these products until we have obtained the requisite regulatory approvals from federal, state and local government authorities, including the FDA and EMEA. To obtain regulatory approval of a product candidate, we or our collaboration partners must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the applicable regulatory agency that such product candidate is safe and effective for its intended uses. In addition, we must show that the facilities used to produce the product candidate are in compliance with applicable manufacturing regulations, which under FDA regulations are called current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP. In general, these requirements mandate that manufacturers follow elaborate design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures throughout the entire manufacturing process. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals typically takes several years and requires the expenditure of substantial capital and other resources. Despite the time, expense and resources invested by us in the approval process, we may not be able to demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective, in which event we would not receive the regulatory approvals required to market them. The FDA, EMEA and other regulatory authorities generally approve products for particular indications. For example, Evicel has only received approval in the U.S. as an adjunct to hemostasis in liver surgery. Our product candidates may not be approved for all of the indications that we request, which would limit the indications for which we can promote them and adversely impact our ability to generate revenues. If the approvals we obtain are limited, we may choose to conduct costly, post-marketing follow-up studies to expand the product indications, but those studies may not produce data sufficient to permit approval for an expanded product indication. The type and magnitude of the testing required for regulatory approval varies depending on the product candidate and the disease or condition for which it is being developed. Regulatory agencies can delay, limit or deny approval of a product for many reasons, including: • regulatory officials might interpret data from pre-clinical and clinical testing in different ways than we and our collaboration partners interpret it and conclude that the product candidate is not safe and effective; • regulatory agencies might not approve our manufacturing processes or facilities or the processes or facilities of our collaboration partners; or • regulatory agencies might change their approval polices or adopt new regulations which can delay approval and add significant additional costs. Any delay or failure by us or our collaboration partners to obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates would adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from them and could impose significant additional costs on us. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively impact the regulatory approval process in others. 34 Table of Contents Moreover, we cannot predict the impact of new government regulations that might adversely affect the discovery, development, production of our product candidates and the manufacturing and marketing of our products. We may be required to incur significant costs to comply with future laws or regulations. Post-approval manufacturing and marketing of our products is subject to substantial government regulation and failure to comply with such regulation could result in fines and withdrawal of approvals. Even after our products receive regulatory approvals, we and any collaboration partner of ours are subject to extensive ongoing government regulation regarding commercial activities. The FDA, EMEA or other regulatory authorities may impose additional limitations on the indicated uses for which a product may be marketed, subsequently withdraw approval or take other actions against us or our products for many reasons, including subsequent discoveries of previously unknown problems or safety issues with the product. Also, based on subsequent events or other circumstances that may come to our attention, we may voluntarily take action to limit the marketing or use of one or more of our products. For example, in 1999, subsequent to Quixil being licensed as an adjunct to hemostasis in liver surgery in the United Kingdom, there were two reported fatal adverse reactions suspected to be associated with its use in neurosurgical procedures. In order not to delay the ongoing mutual recognition process throughout Europe, we requested that a contraindication for use in neurosurgery be added to the label for Crosseal/Quixil. In addition, as described below, manufacturing activities are also heavily regulated. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could result in warning letters, fines, civil penalties, injunctions, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, withdrawal of approvals and criminal prosecution. We and our partners are prohibited from marketing our products for indications other than those specifically approved by regulatory agencies. We could be subject to enforcement actions if we fail to adhere to these restrictions. We are subject to inspection and market surveillance by the FDA, EMEA and other regulatory authorities for compliance with regulations that prohibit the promotion of a medical product for a purpose or indication other than those for which approval has been granted. While a medical product manufacturer may not promote a product for such “off label” use, doctors are allowed, in the exercise of their professional judgment in the practice of medicine, to use a product in ways not approved by regulatory authorities. In particular, while we have received regulatory approval to promote the use of Evicel as an adjunct to hemostasis in liver surgery only and Quixil as an adjunct to hemostasis for general surgical use in certain European countries and as an adjunct to hemostasis in liver and orthopedic surgeries in other European countries, we are aware that Evicel and Quixil are also used by doctors for hemostasis in other types of surgery. Further, in addition to regulatory prohibitions against off-label use, there are safety concerns associated with the practice, since off-label use is generally not supported by the rigorous clinical trials required to support approved uses. A pattern of widespread off-label use could cause the FDA, the EMEA or other regulatory authorities to scrutinize our and Ethicon’s marketing activities regarding Evicel and Quixil. Off-label marketing regulations are subject to varying evolving interpretations. Regulatory authorities have broad enforcement power, and a failure by us or our collaboration partners to comply with these regulations can result in penalties, including warning letters, fines, product recalls or seizures, injunctions, withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications and criminal prosecutions. For example, in May 2004, we received a warning letter from the FDA regarding the failure of a convention poster for Crosseal to provide sufficient information regarding risks associated with Crosseal and its contraindications and to accurately describe its indication as an adjunct to hemostasis in liver surgery. In response to the letter, we undertook a number of corrective actions. Furthermore, because Evicel and Quixil are marketed in the U.S. and the EU, respectively, primarily by Ethicon, we are exposed to the risk that Ethicon’s promotional activities will not fully comply with regulatory requirements. 35 Table of Contents If we and our third-party suppliers do not maintain high standards of manufacturing in accordance with cGMP and other manufacturing regulations, our development and commercialization activities could suffer significant interruptions or delays. We and any third-party suppliers on which we currently or may in the future rely, including the supplier of the application device for Evicel and Quixil, must continuously adhere to cGMP and corresponding manufacturing regulations of regulatory authorities outside of the U.S. In complying with these regulations, we and our third-party suppliers must expend significant time, money and effort in the areas of design and development, testing, production, record-keeping and quality control to assure that our products meet applicable specifications and other regulatory requirements. The failure to comply with these requirements could result in an enforcement action against us, including the seizure of products and shutting down of production. Any of these third-party suppliers and we also may be subject to audits by the FDA, EMEA and other regulatory agencies. If any of our third-party suppliers or we fail to comply with cGMP or other applicable manufacturing regulations, our ability to develop and commercialize our products could suffer significant interruptions. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY We are dependent in part on our patents. The validity, enforceability and commercial value of our rights under our patents are highly uncertain. Our success is dependent in part on obtaining, maintaining and enforcing patent and other intellectual property rights. We seek to obtain and maintain patents and other intellectual property rights to restrict the ability of others to market products that compete with our products. However, the patent position of biopharmaceutical firms is highly uncertain and involves many complex legal and technical issues. There is no clear policy involving the breadth of claims allowed under, or the degree of protection afforded to, patents in this area. Patent applications we file or license from others may not result in the issuance of a patent. Moreover, the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability. Patents, if issued, may be challenged and either invalidated altogether or substantially narrowed as to scope or determined to be unenforceable. Consequently, we do not know how much protection, if any, patents will provide to us if we attempt to enforce them. Our patents may not contain claims that are sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or developing competing products. Competitors may be able to use technologies in competing products that perform substantially the same as our technologies but avoid infringing our patent claims. Under such circumstances, our patents would be of little commercial value to us. We may not be able, alone or with our collaborators and licensors, to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect such rights as fully as in the U.S. Thus, any patents that we own or license from third parties may not provide commercially meaningful protection from competition. For many of the technologies we employ in our business, we rely on maintaining competitively sensitive know-how and other information as trade secrets, which may not sufficiently protect this information. Disclosure of this information could impair our competitive position. As to many technical aspects of our business, we have concluded that competitively sensitive information is either not patentable or that for competitive reasons it is not commercially advantageous to seek patent protection. In these circumstances, we seek to protect this know-how and other proprietary information by maintaining it in confidence as a trade secret. For example, some of the intellectual property we have developed in relation to our core protein purification technology is not patented but instead is maintained by us in the form of know-how and trade secrets. To maintain the confidentiality of our trade secrets, we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and collaborators upon the commencement of their relationships with us. These agreements require that all confidential information developed by the individual or made known to the individual by us during the course of the individual’s relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. Our agreements with employees also provide that inventions conceived by the individual in the course of rendering services to us shall be our exclusive property. However, we may not obtain these agreements in all circumstances, and individuals with whom we have these agreements may not comply with the terms of these agreements. The disclosure of our trade secrets would impair our competitive position. Adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information. Further, to the extent that our 36 Table of Contents employees, consultants or contractors use trade secret technology or know-how owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the ownership of related inventions. Our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. In the event that our technologies infringe or violate the patent or other proprietary rights of third parties, we may be prevented from pursuing product development, manufacturing or commercialization of our products that utilize such technologies. There may be patents held by others of which we are unaware that contain claims that our products or operations infringe. In addition, given the complexities and uncertainties of patent laws, there may be patents of which we know that we may ultimately be held to infringe, particularly if the claims of the patent are determined to be broader than we believe them to be. Adding to this uncertainty, in the U.S., patent applications filed in recent years are confidential for 18 months, while older applications are not publicly available until the patent issues. As a result, avoiding patent infringement may be difficult. If a third party claims that we infringe its patents, any of the following may occur: • we may become liable for substantial damages for past infringement if a court decides that our technologies infringe upon a competitor’s patent; • a court may prohibit us from selling or licensing our product without a license from the patent holder, which may not be available on commercially acceptable terms or at all, or which may require us to pay substantial royalties or grant cross-licenses to our patents; and • we may have to redesign our product so that it does not infringe upon others’ patent rights, which may not be possible or could require substantial funds or time. In addition, employees, consultants, contractors and others may use the trade secret information of others in their work for us or disclose our trade secret information to others. Either of these events could lead to disputes over the ownership of inventions derived from that information or expose us to potential damages or other penalties. If any of these events occurs, our business will suffer and the market price of our common stock will likely decline. We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and intellectual property rights in the biopharmaceutical industry. We may be forced to defend claims of infringement brought by our competitors and others, and we may institute litigation against others who we believe are infringing our intellectual property rights. The outcome of intellectual property litigation is subject to substantial uncertainties and may, for example, turn on the interpretation of claim language by the court, which may not be to our advantage, or on the testimony of experts as to technical facts upon which experts may reasonably disagree. Our involvement in intellectual property litigation could result in significant expense to us. Some of our competitors have considerable resources available to them and a strong economic incentive to undertake substantial efforts to stop or delay us from commercializing products. We, on the other hand, are a relatively small company with comparatively few resources available to us to engage in costly and protracted litigation. Moreover, regardless of the outcome, intellectual property litigation against or by us could significantly disrupt our development and commercialization efforts, divert our management’s attention and quickly consume our financial resources. In addition, if third parties file patent applications or issue patents claiming technology that is also claimed by us in pending applications, we may be required to participate in interference proceedings with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or in other proceedings outside the U.S., including oppositions, to determine priority of invention or patentability. For example, we are party to an opposition proceeding in Europe and may become involved in additional proceedings. Interference or oppositions could adversely affect our patent rights. Even if we are successful in these proceedings, we may incur substantial costs, and the time and attention of our management and scientific personnel will be diverted in pursuit of these proceedings. 37 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK The price of our common stock may be highly volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance. Our common stock has been publicly traded for only a few months and we cannot predict the extent to which a trading market for our common stock will develop or be sustained. The trading price of our common stock could be highly volatile in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • developments concerning Evicel, Quixil, the Fibrin Patch or any of our product candidates; • new products introduced or announced by us or our competitors; • announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors; • expiration or termination of licenses, research contracts or other collaboration agreements; • conditions or trends in the regulatory climate in the biopharmaceutical industry; • intellectual property, product liability or other litigation against us; • actual or anticipated variations in our operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • changes in the market valuations of similar companies; and • sales of shares of our common stock, particularly sales by our officers, directors and significant stockholders. In addition, equity markets in general, and the market for small biopharmaceutical companies in particular, have experienced substantial price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies traded in those markets. Changes in economic conditions in the U.S., the EU or globally could also impact our ability to grow profitably. These broad market and industry factors may materially affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our business or operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 38 Table of Contents The ownership interests of our officers, directors and largest stockholders could conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. Our directors and executive officers beneficially own approximately 19.8% of our common stock. In particular, Robert Taub owns 16.4% of our common stock. As a result, our directors and executive officers, acting together, or Robert Taub, may be able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of mergers or other significant corporate transactions. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders. This concentration of ownership could also have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in our control or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination that could be favorable to you. Certain provisions of Delaware law and our organizational documents could delay or discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable. Certain provisions of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation, which we refer to as our certificate of incorporation, and second amended and restated bylaws, which we refer to as our bylaws, and applicable provisions of Delaware corporate law may make it more difficult for or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us or changing our board of directors and management. These provisions: • allow the authorized number of directors to be changed only by resolution of our board of directors, • allow our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue, without stockholder approval, series of preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could operate to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer to prevent an acquisition that is not approved by our board of directors; • require that stockholder action must be effected at a duly called stockholder meeting and prohibit stockholder action by written consent; • limit who may call meetings of our stockholders; • require our stockholders to comply with advance notice procedures to nominate candidates for election to our board of directors or to place stockholders’ proposals on the agenda for consideration at meetings of stockholders; and • require the approval of the holders of 80% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote to amend certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or DGCL, generally prohibits us from engaging in any business combination with certain persons who own 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock without the approval or our board of directors. These provisions could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, or for members of our board of directors to be replaced, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors or management could deter potential acquirers or prevent the completion of a transaction in which our stockholders could receive a substantial premium over the then current market price for their shares. 39 Table of Contents Future sales of our common stock may cause the market price of our common stock to fall. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. We have outstanding 16,583,284 shares of common stock based on the number of shares outstanding as of December 31, 2006. After the expiration of the lock-up period resulting from our follow-on offering, approximately 3,387,980 shares of our common stock will be restricted as a result of securities laws. The holders of our common stock and warrants have rights, subject to certain conditions, to require us to file registration statements to permit the resale of their shares in the public market or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. Prior to our initial public offering, or IPO, we did not operate as a public company and fulfilling our obligations incident to being a public company is expensive and time consuming. As a private company with limited resources, we maintained a small finance and accounting staff. As a public company, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, as well as the rules of the Nasdaq Global Market, now require us to implement additional corporate governance practices and adhere to a variety of reporting requirements and complex accounting rules. Compliance with these public company obligations increases our legal and financial compliance costs and places significant additional demands on our finance and accounting staff and on our financial, accounting and information systems. In particular, as a public company, our management will be required to conduct an annual evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting and include a report of management on our internal controls in our annual reports on Form 10-K. In addition, we will be required to have our independent public accounting firm attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Under current rules, we will be subject to these requirements beginning with our annual report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting or, if our independent auditors are unable to provide us with an attestation and an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. RISKS RELATED TO OUR OPERATIONS IN ISRAEL Political and military instability and other factors may adversely affect our operations in Israel. All of our manufacturing and research and development facilities and a substantial portion of our personnel are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Although Israel has entered into various agreements with Egypt, Jordan and the Palestinian Authority, Israel has been since September 2000 and currently is subject to civil unrest and terrorist activity, with varying levels of severity. The recent election of representatives of the Hamas movement to a majority of seats in the Palestinian Legislative Council may create additional unrest and uncertainty. In addition, the recent armed conflict with Hezbollah negatively affected business conditions in Israel, and any future armed conflicts or political instability in the region may negatively affect business conditions and adversely affect our results of operations. Any armed conflict, political instability or continued violence in the region, and in particularly if the July 2006 rocket attacks on Israel were to resume and include the center of Israel, where our manufacturing and research and development facilities are located, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected and the share price of companies with significant Israeli operations such as us may also be adversely affected. In addition, parties with whom we do business have sometimes declined to travel to Israel during periods of heightened unrest or tension, forcing us to make alternative arrangements when necessary. Moreover, the political and security situation in Israel may result in parties with whom we have agreements involving performance in Israel claiming that they are not obligated to perform their commitments under those agreements pursuant to force majeure provisions in the agreements. 40 Table of Contents Since we do not have a detailed disaster recovery plan that would allow us to quickly resume business activity, we could experience serious disruptions in business activity, and our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur. Any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our operations could be disrupted as a result of the obligation of key personnel in Israel to perform military service. Generally, all male adult citizens and permanent residents of Israel under the age of 54 are, unless exempt, obligated to perform military reserve duty annually. Additionally, all Israeli residents of this age are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. Many of our officers and employees are currently obligated to perform annual reserve duty. In response to the increase in terrorist activity and the Palestinian uprising, there have been, at times, significant call-ups of military reserves, and it is possible that there will be additional call-ups in the future. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees due to military service, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. The Israeli government programs and tax benefits in which we have participated and in which we currently participate, or from which we may receive benefits, require us to meet certain conditions. These programs or benefits may be terminated or reduced in the future, which could increase our costs. Part of our investment in fixed assets at our manufacturing facility near Tel Aviv, Israel has been granted Approved Enterprise status under the Israeli Law for Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959, or the Investments Law. As a result, we are eligible to receive tax benefits. These benefits are conditioned upon our fulfilling certain requirements stipulated in the Investments Law and its regulations, and the criteria set forth in the specific certificate of approval, including making specified investments in fixed assets and equipment and financing a percentage of those investments with our share capital. If we do not meet these requirements in the future, our tax benefits may be reduced or canceled and we could be required to refund any tax benefits already received at that time. In addition, these programs and tax benefits may not be continued in the future at their current levels or at all, and our requests for future participation in these programs for any future expansion of our manufacturing facilities may not be approved. Changes in the policy of the Israeli Government in particular, and the termination or reduction of these programs and tax benefits specifically, could increase our tax rates, thereby reducing our net profits or increasing our net losses, or otherwise materially adversely affect us. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers and the Israeli experts named in this prospectus outside the U.S., or to assert U.S. securities laws claims outside of the U.S. The majority of our executive officers are not residents of the U.S., and the majority of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the U.S. Therefore, it may be difficult to enforce a U.S. court judgment based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us or any of these persons in a U.S. or foreign court, or to effect service of process upon these persons in the U.S. Additionally, it may be difficult to assert U.S. securities law claims in actions originally instituted outside of the U.S. Foreign courts may refuse to hear a U.S. securities law claim because foreign courts may not be the most appropriate forums in which to bring such a claim. Even if a foreign court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that the law of the jurisdiction in which the foreign court resides, and not U.S. law, is applicable to the claim. Further, if U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process, and certain matters of procedure would still be governed by the law of the jurisdiction in which the foreign court resides. As a result of the difficulty associated with enforcing a judgment against us, you may not be able to collect any damages awarded by either a U.S. or foreign court. 41 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 