Item 1A. Risk Factors Natural gas and oil prices are volatile, and a decline in natural gas and oil prices can significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. Our revenues, profitability and cash flow depend upon the prices and demand for natural gas and oil. The markets for these commodities are very volatile. Even relatively modest drops in prices can significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. Changes in natural gas and oil prices have a significant impact on the value of our reserves and on our cash flow. Prices for natural gas and oil may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for natural gas and oil and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, such as: • the domestic and foreign supply of natural gas and oil; • the price of foreign imports; • worldwide economic conditions; • political and economic conditions in oil producing regions, including the Middle East and South America; • the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • the level of consumer product demand; • weather conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms in and around the Gulf of Mexico; • technological advances affecting energy consumption; • availability of pipeline infrastructure, treating, transportation and refining capacity; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; and • the price and availability of alternative fuels. Lower natural gas and oil prices, such as those experienced in recent periods, may not only decrease our revenues on a per share basis, but also may reduce the amount of natural gas and oil that we can produce economically and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. This also may result in our having to make substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. Volatility in the capital markets could affect the value of certain assets as well as our ability to obtain capital. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile due to a variety of factors, including significant write-offs in the financial services sector and current weak economic conditions. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial and/or operating strength. As a result, for many companies, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially while the availability of funds from those markets has diminished significantly. In particular, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of lending counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets generally has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt on similar terms or at all and reduced, or in some cases ceased, to provide funding to borrowers. In addition, lending counterparties under existing revolving credit facilities and other debt instruments may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations. These factors may adversely affect the value of certain of our assets and our ability to draw on our senior credit facility. If the current credit conditions of United States and international capital markets persist or deteriorate, we may be required to impair the carrying value of assets associated with derivative contracts to account for non-performance by counterparties to those contracts. Moreover, government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets may not restore consumer confidence, stabilize the markets or increase liquidity and the availability of credit. On October 3, 2008, Lehman Brothers Commodity Services, Inc. (“Lehman Brothers”), a lender under our senior credit facility, filed for bankruptcy. At the time that its parent, Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc., declared bankruptcy on September 15, 2008, Lehman Brothers elected not to fund its pro rata share, or 0.29%, of borrowings requested by us under the senior credit facility. Accordingly, we anticipate that Lehman Brothers will not fund its pro rata share of any future borrowing requests. We currently do not expect this reduced availability of amounts under the senior credit facility to impact our liquidity or business operations. If other financial institutions that have extended credit commitments to us are adversely affected by the current conditions of the United States and international capital markets, they may become unable to fund borrowings under their credit commitments to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to borrow additional funds, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures and other corporate purposes. Future price declines may result in further reductions of the asset carrying values of our natural gas and oil properties. We utilize the full cost method of accounting for costs related to our natural gas and oil properties. Under this accounting method, all costs for both productive and nonproductive properties are capitalized and amortized 28 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements on an aggregate basis over the estimated lives of the properties using the unit-of-production method. However, the amount of these costs that can be carried as capitalized assets is subject to a ceiling, which limits such pooled costs to the aggregate of the present value of future net revenues of proved natural gas and oil reserves attributable to proved properties, discounted at 10%, plus the lower of cost or market value of unproved properties. The full cost ceiling is evaluated at the end of each quarter using the most recent 12-month average prices for natural gas and oil, adjusted for the impact of derivatives accounted for as cash flow hedges. As none of our derivatives are accounted for as cash flow hedges, the impact of our derivative contracts has been excluded from the determination of our full cost ceiling. Our ceiling limitation as of December 31, 2009 resulted in a non-cash impairment charge of $388.9 million. Further declines in natural gas and oil prices, without other mitigating circumstances, could result in additional losses of future net revenues, including losses attributable to quantities that cannot be economically produced at lower prices, which could cause us to make additional write-downs of capitalized costs of our natural gas and oil properties and non-cash charges against future earnings. The amount of such future write-downs and non-cash charges could be substantial. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business. As of December 31, 2009, our total indebtedness was $2.6 billion, and we had preferred stock outstanding with an aggregate liquidation preference of $465.0 million. Our substantial level of indebtedness and preferred stock outstanding increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness, combined with our lease and other financial obligations and contractual commitments, could have other important consequences to us. For example, it could: • make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged and, therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our indebtedness prevents us from pursuing; and • limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other purposes. Any of the above listed factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our estimated reserves are based on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any significant inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions could materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. Our current estimates of reserves could change, potentially in material amounts, in the future. The process of estimating natural gas and oil reserves is complex and inherently imprecise. It requires interpretations of available technical data and many assumptions, including assumptions relating to production rates and economic factors such as natural gas and oil prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures and availability of funds. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in this report. See “Business — Our Businesses and Primary Operations” in Item 1 of this report for information about our natural gas and oil reserves. 29 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Actual future production, natural gas and oil prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable natural gas and oil reserves most likely will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves shown in this report, which in turn could have a negative effect on the value of our assets. In addition, from time to time in the future, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves, potentially in material amounts, to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, natural gas and oil prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves will not necessarily be the same as the current market value of our estimated natural gas and oil reserves. We base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on 12-month average prices and costs. Actual future net cash flows from our natural gas and oil properties also will be affected by factors such as: • actual prices we receive for natural gas and oil; • the accuracy of our reserve estimates; • actual cost of development and production expenditures; • the amount and timing of actual production; • supply of and demand for natural gas and oil; and • changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of natural gas and oil properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and gas industry in general. Unless we replace our natural gas and oil reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future natural gas and oil reserves and production, and therefore our cash flow and income, are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production at acceptable costs. Our potential drilling location inventories are scheduled over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. As of December 31, 2009, only 610 of our approximately 12,100 identified potential future well locations were attributed to proved undeveloped reserves. These potential drilling locations, including those without proved undeveloped reserves, represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations is subject to a number of uncertainties, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, natural gas and oil prices, costs and drilling results. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the numerous potential drilling locations we have will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce natural gas or oil from these or any other potential drilling locations. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from our current expectations, which could adversely affect our business. We will not know conclusively prior to drilling whether natural gas or oil will be present in sufficient quantities to be economically viable. We describe some of our current prospects and drilling locations and our plans to explore those prospects and drilling locations in this report. A prospect is a property on which we have identified what our geoscientists 30 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements believe, based on available seismic and geological information, to be indications of natural gas or oil. Our prospects and drilling locations are in various stages of evaluation, ranging from a prospect that is ready to drill to a prospect that will require substantial additional seismic data processing and interpretation. The use of seismic data and other technologies and the study of producing fields in the same area will not enable us to know conclusively prior to drilling whether natural gas or oil will be present or, if present, whether natural gas or oil will be present in sufficient quantities to be economically viable. Even if sufficient amounts of natural gas or oil exist, we may damage the potentially productive hydrocarbon bearing formation or experience mechanical difficulties while drilling or completing the well, resulting in a reduction in production from the well or abandonment of the well. During 2009, we participated in drilling a total of 160 gross wells, of which four were identified as dry wells. If we drill additional wells that we identify as dry wells in our current and future prospects, our drilling success rate may decline and materially harm our business. In summary, the cost of drilling, completing and operating any well is often uncertain, and new wells may not be productive. Properties that we buy may not produce as projected, and we may be unable to determine reserve potential, identify liabilities associated with the properties or obtain protection from sellers against them. Our reviews of properties we acquire are inherently incomplete because an in-depth review of every individual property involved in each acquisition generally is not feasible. Even a detailed review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and environmental problems, such as soil or ground water contamination, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even when problems are identified, we often assume certain environmental and other risks and liabilities in connection with acquired properties, and such risks and liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The development of the proved undeveloped reserves in West Texas and other areas of operation may take longer and may require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Approximately 35.5% of the estimated proved reserves that we owned or had under lease in West Texas as of December 31, 2009 were proved undeveloped reserves and 37.3% of our total reserves were proved undeveloped reserves. Development of these reserves may take longer and require higher levels of capital expenditures than we currently anticipate. Therefore, ultimate recoveries from these fields may not match current expectations. Delays in the development of our reserves or increases in costs to drill and develop such reserves will reduce the PV-10 value of our estimated proved undeveloped reserves and future net revenues estimated for such reserves. A significant portion of our operations are located in West Texas, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in one major geographic area. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 69.7% of our proved reserves and approximately 64.5% of our production were located in the WTO and Permian Basin in West Texas. In addition, a substantial portion of our WTO natural gas contains a high concentration of CO2 and requires treating. As a result, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of delays or interruptions of production from these wells caused by transportation and treatment capacity constraints, curtailment of production or treatment plant closures for scheduled maintenance or unanticipated occurrences. Such delays or interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Many of our prospects in the WTO may contain natural gas that is high in CO2 content, which can negatively affect our economics. The reservoirs of many of our prospects in the WTO may contain natural gas that is high in CO2 content. The natural gas produced from these reservoirs must be treated for the removal of CO2 prior to marketing. If we 31 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements cannot obtain sufficient capacity at treatment facilities for our natural gas with a high CO2 concentration, or if the cost to obtain such capacity significantly increases, we could be forced to delay production and development or experience increased production costs. We do not know the amount of CO2 we will encounter in any well until it is drilled. As a result, sometimes we encounter CO2 levels in our wells that are higher than expected. Since the treatment expenses are incurred on a Mcf basis, we will incur a higher effective treating cost per MMBtu of natural gas sold for natural gas with a higher CO2 content. As a result, high CO2 gas wells must produce at much higher rates than low CO2 gas wells to be economic, especially in a low natural gas price environment. Furthermore, when we treat the gas for the removal of CO2, some of the methane is used to run the treatment plant as fuel gas and other methane and heavier hydrocarbons, such as ethane, propane and butane, cannot be separated from the CO2 and is lost. This is known as plant shrink. Historically our plant shrink has been approximately 14% in the WTO. After giving effect to plant shrink, as many as 4 Mcf of high CO2 natural gas must be produced to sell one MMBtu of natural gas. We report our volumes of natural gas reserves and production net of CO2 volumes that are removed prior to sales. All of our consolidated drilling and services revenues are derived from companies in the oil and gas industry. Companies to which we provide drilling and related services are affected by the oil and gas industry risks mentioned above. Market prices of natural gas and oil, limited access to capital and reductions in capital expenditures could result in oil and gas companies canceling or curtailing their drilling programs, which could reduce the demand for our drilling and related services. Any prolonged reduction in the overall level of exploration and development activities, whether resulting from changes in natural gas and oil prices or otherwise, could impact our drilling and services segment by negatively affecting: • revenues, cash flow and profitability; • our ability to retain skilled rig personnel whom we would need in the event of an upturn in the demand for drilling and related services; and • the fair value of our rig fleet. A significant decrease in natural gas production in our areas of operations, due to the decline in production from existing wells, depressed commodity prices or otherwise, would adversely affect our ability to satisfy certain contractual obligations and revenues and cash flow from our midstream gas services segment. In June 2009, we sold an entity, Piñon Gathering Company, LLC (“PGC”), holding our gathering and compression assets located in the Piñon Field to an unaffiliated third party. In conjunction with the sale, we entered into a gas gathering agreement pursuant to which we dedicated our Piñon Field acreage to PGC for gathering services for 20 years. During that period, we have minimum throughput and delivery obligations to PGC. In addition, we continue to construct and acquire our own gathering and compression assets in the Piñon Field. Most of the reserves supporting our contractual obligations to PGC and our own midstream assets are operated by our exploration and production segment. A material decrease in natural gas production in our areas of operation would result in a decline in the volume of natural gas delivered to PGC’s and our pipelines and facilities for gathering, transporting and treating. We have no control over many factors affecting production activity, including prevailing and projected energy prices, demand for hydrocarbons, the level of reserves, geological considerations, governmental regulation and the availability and cost of capital. Our throughput and delivery obligations to PGC may not be satisfied if we do not connect new wells to PGC’s gathering systems or if there is a decline in natural gas that we produce from the Piñon Field; however, we would still be obligated to pay fees under the gas gathering agreement. Failure to connect new wells to our own gathering systems would result in the amount of natural gas we gather, transport and treat being reduced substantially over time and could, upon exhaustion of the current wells, cause us to abandon our gathering systems and, possibly cease gathering, transporting and treating operations. 32 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our use of 2-D and 3-D seismic data is subject to interpretation and may not accurately identify the presence of natural gas and oil. In addition, the use of such technology requires greater predrilling expenditures, which could adversely affect the results of our drilling operations. A significant aspect of our exploration and development plan involves seismic data. Even when properly used and interpreted, 2-D and 3-D seismic data and visualization techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators and do not enable the interpreter to know whether hydrocarbons are present in those structures. Other geologists and petroleum professionals, when studying the same seismic data, may have significantly different interpretations than our professionals. In addition, the use of 2-D and 3-D seismic and other advanced technologies requires greater predrilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies, and we could incur losses due to such expenditures. As a result, our drilling activities may not be geologically successful or economical, and our overall drilling success rate or our drilling success rate for activities in a particular area may not improve. We often gather 2-D and 3-D seismic data over large areas. Our interpretation of seismic data delineates for us those portions of an area that we believe are desirable for drilling. Therefore, we may choose not to acquire option or lease rights prior to acquiring seismic data, and in many cases, we may identify hydrocarbon indicators before seeking option or lease rights in the location. If we are not able to lease those locations on acceptable terms, we will have made substantial expenditures to acquire and analyze 2-D and 3-D data without having an opportunity to attempt to benefit from those expenditures. Drilling for and producing natural gas and oil are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our drilling and operating activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that we will not discover commercially productive reservoirs. Drilling for natural gas and oil can be unprofitable if dry wells are drilled and if productive wells do not produce sufficient revenues to return a profit. In addition, our drilling and producing operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of other factors, including: • unusual or unexpected geological formations and miscalculations; • pressures; • fires; • blowouts; • loss of drilling fluid circulation; • title problems; • facility or equipment malfunctions; • unexpected operational events; • shortages of skilled personnel; • shortages or delivery delays of equipment and services; • compliance with environmental and other regulatory requirements; and • adverse weather conditions. Any of these risks can cause substantial losses, including personal injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution, environmental contamination or loss of wells and regulatory fines or penalties. Insurance against all operational risks is not available to us. Additionally, we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the perceived risks presented. 33 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We could incur losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. The occurrence of an event that is not covered in full or in part by insurance could have a material adverse impact on our business activities, financial condition and results of operations. The high cost or unavailability of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and other oil field services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget. Our industry is cyclical and, from time to time, there is a shortage of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or qualified personnel. During these periods, the costs of rigs, equipment, supplies and personnel are substantially greater and their availability may be limited. Additionally, these services may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. Market conditions or operational impediments may hinder our access to natural gas and oil markets or delay our production. Market conditions or a lack of satisfactory natural gas and oil transportation arrangements may hinder our access to natural gas and oil markets or delay our production. The availability of a ready market for our natural gas and oil production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of natural gas and oil and the proximity of reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities. Our ability to market our production depends, in substantial part, on the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines and treating facilities. For example, we are currently experiencing capacity limitations on high CO2 gas treating in the Piñon Field. Our failure to obtain such services on acceptable terms or expand our midstream assets could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be required to shut in wells for a lack of a market or because access to natural gas pipelines, gathering system capacity or treating facilities may be limited or unavailable. We would be unable to realize revenue from any shut-in wells until production arrangements were made to deliver the production to market. Repercussions from terrorist activities or armed conflict could harm our business. Terrorist activities, anti-terrorist efforts or other armed conflict involving the United States or its interests abroad may adversely affect the United States and global economies and could prevent us from meeting our financial and other obligations. If events of this nature occur and persist, the attendant political instability and societal disruption could reduce overall demand for oil and natural gas, potentially putting downward pressure on prevailing oil and natural gas prices and causing a reduction in our revenues. Oil and natural gas production facilities, transportation systems and storage facilities could be direct targets of terrorist attacks, and or operations could be adversely impacted if infrastructure integral to our operations is destroyed by such an attack. Costs for insurance and other security may increase as a result of these threats, and some insurance coverage may become more difficult to obtain, if available at all. Our development and exploration operations require substantial capital, and we may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a loss of properties and a decline in our natural gas and oil reserves. The natural gas and oil industry is capital intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures in our business and operations for the exploration, development, production and acquisition of natural gas and oil reserves. To date, we have financed capital expenditures primarily with proceeds from the sale of equity, debt and cash generated by operations. We intend to finance our future capital expenditures with the sale of equity and debt securities, cash flow from operations, asset sales and current and new financing arrangements. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including: • our proved reserves; • the level of natural gas and oil we are able to produce from existing wells; 34 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • the prices at which natural gas and oil are sold; and • our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves. If our revenues decrease as a result of lower natural gas and oil prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. In order to fund our capital expenditures, we may seek additional financing. Our senior credit facility and senior note indentures, however, contain covenants restricting our ability to incur additional indebtedness without the consent of the lenders. Our lenders may withhold this consent at their sole discretion. Continuing disruptions in the global financial and capital markets also could adversely affect our ability to obtain debt or equity financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. The failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to exploration and development of our prospects, which in turn could lead to a possible loss of properties and a decline in our natural gas and oil reserves. The agreements governing our existing indebtedness have restrictions, financial covenants and borrowing base redeterminations which could adversely affect our operations. Our senior credit facility and the indentures governing our senior notes restrict our ability to obtain additional financing, make investments, lease equipment, sell assets and engage in business combinations. We also are required to comply with certain financial covenants and ratios. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants in the future is uncertain and will be affected by the levels of cash flow from our operations and events or circumstances beyond our control. If commodity prices remain at their current level for an extended period or continue to decline, this could adversely affect our ability to meet covenants. Our failure to comply with any of the restrictions and covenants under the senior credit facility, senior notes or other debt financing could result in a default under those instruments, which could cause all of our existing indebtedness to be immediately due and payable. Our senior credit facility limits the amounts we can borrow to a borrowing base amount. The borrowing base is subject to review semi-annually; however, the lenders reserve the right to have one additional re-determination of the borrowing base per calendar year. Unscheduled re-determinations may be made at our request, but are limited to two requests per year. The borrowing base is determined based upon proved developed producing reserves, proved developed non-producing reserves and proved undeveloped reserves. Outstanding borrowings in excess of the borrowing base must be repaid immediately, or we must pledge other natural gas and oil properties as additional collateral. We do not currently have any substantial unpledged properties, and we may not have the financial resources in the future to make any mandatory principal prepayments under the senior credit facility, which are required, for example, when we exceed our committed line of credit, fail to reinvest proceeds of asset sales in new natural gas and oil properties or incur indebtedness that is not permitted by the terms of the senior credit facility. If the indebtedness under our senior credit facility and senior notes were to be accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full. Our derivative activities could result in financial losses and could reduce our earnings. To achieve a more predictable cash flow and to reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in the prices of natural gas and oil, we currently, and may in the future, enter into derivative contracts for a portion of our natural gas and oil production, including collars, basis swaps and fixed-price swaps. As of December 31, 2009, we had natural gas price swaps of 80.3 Bcfe at an average price of $7.70 per Mcfe in place for 2010 and oil price swaps of 4,290 MBbls at an average price of $82.03 per MBbl for 2010, 4,745 MBbls at an average price of $86.52 per MBbl for 2011 and 4,392 MBbls at an average price of $88.26 per MBbl for 2012. The Company also has natural gas basis swaps in place through 2013 for 314.2 Bcf at an average price of $0.57 per Mcf. We have not designated any of our derivative contracts as hedges for accounting purposes and record all derivative contracts 35 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements on our balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of our derivative contracts are recognized in current period earnings. Accordingly, our earnings may fluctuate significantly as a result of changes in fair value of our derivative contracts. Derivative contracts also expose us to the risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when: • production is less than expected; • the counterparty to the derivative contract defaults on its contract obligations; or • there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the derivative contract and actual prices received. In addition, these types of derivative contracts limit the benefit we would receive from increases in the prices for natural gas and oil. Competition in the oil and gas industry is intense, which may adversely affect our ability to succeed. The oil and gas industry is intensely competitive, and we compete with companies that have greater resources than we do. Many of these companies not only explore for and produce natural gas and oil, but also carry on refining operations and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national or worldwide basis. These companies may be able to pay more for productive natural gas and oil properties and exploratory prospects or identify, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. In addition, these companies may have a greater ability to continue exploration activities during periods of low natural gas and oil market prices. Our larger competitors may be able to absorb the burden of present and future federal, state, local and other laws and regulations more easily than we can, which would adversely affect our competitive position. Our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover reserves in the future will be dependent upon our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. In addition, because we have fewer financial and human resources than many companies in our industry, we may be at a disadvantage in bidding for exploratory prospects and producing natural gas and oil properties. See “Business — Competition” in Item 1 of this report. Downturns in natural gas and oil prices can result in decreased oil field activity which, in turn, can result in an oversupply of service providers and drilling rigs. This oversupply can result in severe reductions in prices received for oil field services or a complete lack of work for crews and equipment. We are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations. Our natural gas and oil exploration, production, transportation and treatment operations are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations. In order to conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities. We may incur substantial costs in order to maintain compliance with these existing laws and regulations. In addition, our costs of compliance may increase if existing laws and regulations are revised, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations. For instance, we may be unable to obtain all necessary permits, approvals and certificates for proposed projects. Alternatively, we may have to incur substantial expenditures to obtain, maintain or renew authorizations to conduct existing projects. If a project is unable to function as planned due to changing requirements or public opposition, we may suffer expensive delays, extended periods of non-operation or significant loss of value in a project. Such costs may have a negative effect on our business and results of operations. Our business is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations as interpreted and enforced by governmental agencies and other bodies vested with authority relating to the exploration for, and the development, production and transportation of, natural gas and oil. Failure to comply with such laws and 36 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could have a material adverse effect on us. For instance, the MMS may suspend or terminate our operations on federal leases for failure to pay royalties or comply with safety and environmental regulations. Our operations expose us to potentially substantial costs and liabilities with respect to environmental, health and safety matters. We may incur substantial costs and liabilities as a result of environmental, health and safety requirements applicable to our natural gas and oil exploration, development, production, transportation, treatment, and other activities. These costs and liabilities could arise under a wide range of environmental, health and safety laws that cover, among other things, emissions into the air and water, habitat and endangered species protection, the containment and disposal of hazardous substances, oil field waste and other waste materials, the use of underground injection wells, and wetlands protection. These laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become increasingly strict over time. Failure to comply with environmental, health and safety laws or regulations may result in assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties, imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens and the issuance of orders enjoining or limiting our current or future operations. Compliance with these laws and regulations also increases the cost of our operations and may prevent or delay the commencement or continuance of a given operation. Specifically, we may incur increased expenditures in the future in order to maintain compliance with laws and regulations governing emissions of air pollutants from our natural gas treatment plants. See “Business — Environmental Regulations” in Item 1 of this report. Certain environmental laws impose strict joint and several liability that may require us to pay for or incur the costs to remediate contaminated properties regardless of whether such contamination resulted from the conduct of others or from consequences of our own actions that were or were not in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. In addition, claims for damages to persons, property or natural resources may result from environmental and other impacts of our operations. Moreover, new or modified environmental, health or safety laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be more stringent and impose unforeseen liabilities or significantly increase compliance costs. Therefore, the costs to comply with environmental, health or safety laws or regulations or the liabilities incurred in connection with such compliance could significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, many countries as well as several states and regions of the United States have begun implementing legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide and methane, a primary component of natural gas, in response to scientific studies suggesting that these gases may be contributing to the warming of the Earth’s atmosphere. On the United States federal level, Congress is currently considering and President Obama has expressed support for legislation to restrict or regulate emissions of greenhouse gases. The EPA’s Final Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases Rule, which requires reporting of certain greenhouse gas emissions, became effective December 29, 2009. Regulation of greenhouse gases could adversely impact some of our operations and demand for some of our services or products in the future. See “Business — Environmental Regulations” in Item 1 of this report. The Century Plant may not be constructed, operate or perform as intended. There are significant risks associated with the construction, operation and performance of a project such as the Century Plant. There are a limited number of firms and individuals with the expertise and experience necessary to complete construction projects of this size and nature. There is no assurance that the materials necessary for construction of the plant will be in ready supply when we need them or delivered to us on a timely basis. Accordingly, we may not be able to complete construction of the Century Plant within the time frame currently anticipated, and we could experience cost overruns that will not be covered by Occidental under our contract with Occidental. Finally, there is no guarantee that, once the Century Plant is constructed, we will be able to find, produce and deliver enough high CO2 gas to satisfy our delivery obligations to Occidental or that the Century Plant will operate at its designed capacity or otherwise perform as anticipated. 37 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions, and integration of these acquisitions may disrupt our business and management. We have in the past and may in the future acquire other companies or large asset packages. Most recently, we completed the Forest Acquisition in December 2009. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition and each acquisition has numerous risks. These risks include: • difficulty in assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired company; • difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures and policies during the transition and integration; • disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of our management and employees from other opportunities and challenges; • difficulty integrating the acquired company’s accounting, management information, human resources and other administrative systems; • inability to retain key personnel of the acquired business; • inability to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses; • inability to take advantage of anticipated tax benefits; • potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired business; • exposure to litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risk as a result of, an acquisition, including but not limited to, claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders or other third-parties; • potential inability to assert that internal controls over financial reporting are effective; and • potential incompatibility of business cultures. If we fail to maintain an adequate system of internal control over financial reporting, it could adversely affect our ability to accurately report our results. Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in our internal control over financial reporting that results in a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent material fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. Our efforts to develop and maintain our internal controls may not be successful, and we may be unable to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, including future compliance with the obligations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any failure to develop or maintain effective controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, including those related to acquired businesses, or other effective improvement of our internal controls could harm our operating results. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. Certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. President Obama’s Proposed Fiscal Year 2011 Budget included proposed legislation that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to United States tax laws, including the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas 38 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities, and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether any such changes will be enacted or how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. The adoption of new derivatives legislation or regulation could adversely affect our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. Congress is currently considering legislation to impose restrictions on certain transactions involving derivatives, which could affect the use of derivatives in hedging transactions. The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2009, which was approved by the U.S. House of Representatives on December 11, 2009, would subject over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivative dealers and major OTC derivative market participants to substantial supervision and regulation, including by imposing conservative capital and margin requirements and strict business conduct standards. Derivative contracts that are not cleared through central clearinghouses or exchanges may be subject to substantially higher capital and margin requirements. In addition, the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, also known as the Waxman-Markey cap-and-trade legislation or ACESA, which was approved by the U.S. House of Representatives on June 26, 2009, contains provisions that would prohibit private OTC energy commodity derivative and hedging transactions. ACESA would expand the power of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”) to regulate derivative transactions related to energy commodities, including oil and natural gas, and to mandate clearance of such derivative contracts through registered derivative clearing organizations. Under ACESA, the CFTC’s expanded authority over energy derivatives would terminate upon the adoption of general legislation covering derivative regulatory reform. On January 14, 2010, the CFTC proposed rules to establish position limits on derivatives that reference major energy commodities, including natural gas and oil. The proposed all-months-combined position limits would be 10% of the first 25,000 contracts of open interest and 2.5% of open interest beyond 25,000 contracts. The CFTC’s proposal includes an exemption for bona fide hedges relating to inventory or anticipatory purchases or sales of the commodity. The CFTC also is evaluating whether position limits should be applied consistently across all markets and participants. Although it is not possible at this time to predict the specific content of any derivatives legislation that may ultimately be enacted, any such laws or regulations that are adopted that subject us to additional capital or margin requirements relating to, or to additional restrictions on, our trading and commodity positions could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business or on the cost of our hedging activity. Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. Congress is currently considering legislation to amend the federal Safe Drinking Water Act to require the disclosure of chemicals used by the oil and gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process and impose additional regulatory burdens on our industry. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate natural gas production. Sponsors of bills currently pending before the Senate and House of Representatives have asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect drinking water supplies. The proposed legislation would require the reporting and public disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process, which could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. In addition, these bills, if adopted, could establish an additional level of regulation at the federal level that could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and could result in additional regulatory burdens that could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing and increase our costs of compliance and doing business. 39 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the gas and oil that we produce. On December 7, 2009, the EPA announced its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases endanger human health and the environment because emissions of such gases, according to the EPA, contribute to warming the Earth’s atmosphere and other climate changes. These findings by the EPA allow it to proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. In September 2009, the EPA proposed two sets of regulations in anticipation of finalizing its findings. The proposed regulations would require a reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases from motor vehicles and also could require permits for emitting greenhouse gas from certain stationary sources. In addition, on September 22, 2009, the EPA issued a final rule requiring annual reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the United States, beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. The adoption and implementation of any regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of greenhouse gases from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases associated with our operations or could adversely affect demand for the gas and oil we produce. Also, on June 26, 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the “American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009,” (the “ACESA”) which would establish an economy-wide cap-and-trade program to reduce U.S. emissions of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide and methane, that may contribute to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere and other climate changes. The ACESA would require a 17% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from 2005 levels by 2020 and just over an 80% reduction of such emissions by 2050. Under this legislation, the EPA would issue a capped and steadily declining number of tradable emissions allowances to certain major sources of greenhouse gas emissions so that such sources could continue to emit greenhouse gases. The net effect of the ACESA would be to impose increasing costs on the combustion of carbon-based fuels such as oil, refined petroleum products and natural gas. The U.S. Senate has begun work on its own legislation for restricting domestic greenhouse gas emissions, and President Obama has indicated his support of legislation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions through an emission allowance system. Although it is not possible at this time to predict whether or when the United States Senate may act on this or other climate change legislation or how any bill passed by the United States Senate would be reconciled with the ACESA, any federal laws or implementing regulations that may be adopted to address greenhouse gas emissions could require us to incur increased operating costs and could adversely affect demand for the gas and oil we produce. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 