Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business Our businesses may suffer as a result of the downturn in new residential construction. New water and wastewater infrastructure spending, which is dependent upon residential construction, is important to our businesses. Since January 2006, there have been steep declines in the construction of new homes, which have adversely impacted our sales volume in recent periods. The disruption in the financial markets late in calendar 2008 exacerbated these declines and industry experts generally do not expect residential construction to improve until 2010 at the earliest. Our business activity is closely related to the development of residential land. We believe existing developed land will be built upon before new land is developed. Therefore, we expect our residential construction related business recovery to lag any recovery in new home construction. An extended downtown in residential construction activity will negatively affect our sales, profitability and cash flows and could impair our ability to conduct our businesses as they have historically been conducted. A portion of our business relies on local, state and federal spending related to infrastructure upgrade, repair and replacement. A portion of our business depends on local, state and federal spending on water and wastewater infrastructure upgrade, repair and replacement. A significant percentage of our products are ultimately used by municipalities or other governmental agencies in water transmission and collection systems. As a result, our sales could decline as a result of decreases in the number of projects planned by water agencies, government spending cuts, general budgetary constraints, difficulty in obtaining necessary permits or the inability of customers or end users to obtain financing. It is not unusual for water projects to be delayed and rescheduled for a number of reasons, including changes in project priorities and difficulties in complying with environmental and other government regulations. The decline in economic conditions is causing many states and municipalities to collect lower than anticipated revenues, which is resulting in significant budget shortfalls. These shortfalls could lead to reduced or delayed funding for water infrastructure projects. Further, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2009 and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 were intended to cause an increase in funds available for municipal spending. There is some evidence that these acts caused a freeze on municipal spending as municipalities waited to determine if they would benefit from the availability of federal funds. At September 30, 2009, a very small portion of stimulus-related funds targeted for water infrastructure projects has been spent. These acts and other future acts may not result in a meaningful increase in water infrastructure purchases and, in the short term, could continue to have a material adverse effect on our sales to state and local governments. If state and local governments’ budgets remain negatively impacted by downturns in the economy, then spending growth in the infrastructure upgrade, repair and replacement sector will continue to be slow. Some state and local governments have placed or may place significant restrictions on the use of water by their constituents. These water use restrictions have or may similarly lead to reduced water revenues by municipalities or other governmental agencies, which could similarly affect funding decisions for water-related projects. Even if favorable economic conditions exist, state and local governments may choose not to address deferred infrastructure needs among competing budget priorities. A decline in local, state and federal spending on infrastructure could lead to a further decline in our sales, profitability and cash flows. A report of the U.S. Conference of Mayors estimates that state and local government funding generally provides 99% and 95% of the investment in drinking water and wastewater infrastructure, respectively. Funds for water infrastructure repair and replacement typically come from local taxes or water rates. The ability of state 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements and local governments to increase taxes or water rates may be limited. In addition, state and local governments that do not budget for capital depreciation in setting tax rates and water rates may be unable to pay for water infrastructure repair and replacement if they do not have other funding sources. A portion of our business relies on cyclical non-residential construction. A portion of our business depends on non-residential construction. Non-residential construction activity is cyclical and may lag general market downturns. Non-residential construction activity has declined, and independent forecasts of calendar 2010 non-residential construction activity indicate a decline of 16% compared to calendar 2009. A continued reduction in non-residential construction could result in a decline in our sales, profitability and cash flows. If we are unable to execute cost-control measures successfully, our total operating costs may be greater than expected, which may adversely affect our profitability. We have taken steps to lower our costs by reducing staff, compensation and employee benefits and implementing general cost-control measures, and we expect to continue some of these cost-control efforts for the foreseeable future. If we do not achieve the expected savings or if our operating costs increase as a result of our strategic initiatives, our total operating costs may be greater than anticipated. Although we believe that appropriate steps have been and are being taken to implement cost-control efforts while maintaining customer service and quality levels, if not managed properly, such efforts may affect our ability to generate future net sales. Reductions in staff and employee compensation and benefits could also adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key employees. In addition, we operate with significant operating leverage. A significant portion of our expenses consists of fixed costs that neither increase nor decrease proportionately with net sales. As a result, we are limited in our ability to reduce costs in the short term. If we are not able to implement further cost control efforts or reduce our fixed costs sufficiently in response to a further decline in our net sales, we may experience a higher percentage decline in our income from continuing operations. Our business is subject to risk of cost increases and fluctuations and delays in the delivery of raw materials and purchased components. Our business is subject to the risk of cost increases and fluctuations and periodic delays in the timely delivery of raw materials and purchased components that are beyond our control. Our operations require substantial amounts of raw materials or purchased components, such as scrap steel and iron, brass ingot, sand, resin, steel pipe and coke as well as purchased components. The availability and cost of certain raw materials, such as brass ingot, scrap iron and scrap steel, as well as purchased components are subject to economic forces largely beyond our control, including North American and international demand, freight costs, speculation and foreign currency exchange rates. We generally purchase raw materials at current market costs and do not hedge our exposure to price changes. We are not always able, and may not be able in the future, to pass on increases in the cost of these raw materials to our customers. In particular, when raw material costs increase rapidly or to significantly higher than normal levels, we may not be able to pass cost increases through to our customers on a timely basis, if at all, which could lead to reductions of our income from operations, operating margins and cash flows. Any increases in the cost of raw materials and purchased components or decreases in their availability could impair our profitability. We depend on a group of major distributors for a significant portion of our sales; any loss of these distributors could reduce our sales and continuing consolidation among distributors could cause price pressure. Approximately 31% of our fiscal 2009 net sales were to our ten largest distributors, and approximately 23% of our fiscal 2009 net sales were to our three largest distributors: HDS IP Holding, LLC (“HD Supply”), 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Ferguson Enterprises, Inc. and Mainline Supply Company. In fiscal 2009, HD Supply accounted for 16% and 15% of net sales for Mueller Co. and U.S. Pipe, respectively. We do not have written contracts with any of our major distributors. While our relationships with our ten largest distributors have been long-lasting, distributors in our industry have experienced consolidation over the past five years. For example, The Home Depot, Inc. acquired National Waterworks Holdings, Inc. in 2005 and then acquired Hughes Supply, Inc. in 2006. These acquired businesses along with the related business from The Home Depot, Inc. have been merged into one entity operating as HD Supply, which became an independent company in 2007. As a result, two of our three historically largest distributors have been combined under common control. In addition, our distributors could be acquired by other distributors who buy products from our competitors. If consolidation among distributors continues, pricing pressure may result, which could lead to a decline in our sales and profitability. The loss of any one of our top distributors in any market could reduce our levels of sales and profitability. While many distributors are large national companies, they conduct business through local operations that vary in scope and effectiveness. We attempt to align our businesses with the most successful distributors in any market. For some of our products, we may have relationships with multiple distributors in a single market, or may use a national distributor’s team in one market and a different national distributor in another market. Our industry is very competitive and some of our products are similar to those manufactured by our competitors. The U.S. and non-U.S. markets for water infrastructure, flow control and piping component system products are competitive. While there are only a few competitors for most of our product offerings, many of our competitors are well-established companies with strong brand recognition. Anvil’s products in particular compete on the basis of quality, availability and breadth of product and are sold in fragmented markets with low barriers to entry. Also, competition for ductile iron pipe sold by U.S. Pipe comes not only from ductile iron pipe produced by a concentrated number of manufacturers, but also from pipe composed of other materials, such as polyvinyl chloride (“PVC”), high-density polyethelyne (“HDPE”), concrete, fiberglass, reinforced plastic and steel. Further, our ability to retain our customers in the face of competition generally depends on a variety of factors, including the quality and price of our products and services and our ability to market our products effectively. Competition from non-U.S. companies could increase and could harm our sales, profitability and cash flows. In addition to competition from U.S. companies, we face the threat of competition from non-U.S. companies. The intensity of competition from non-U.S. companies is affected by fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar against their local currencies, by the cost to ship competitive products into North America and by the availability of trade remedies. Competition may also increase as a result of U.S. competitors shifting their operations or otherwise reducing their expenses by utilizing non-U.S. facilities or suppliers. The 2007 Credit Agreement imposes significant restrictions on our operational flexibility. The 2007 Credit Agreement, which was amended in June 2009, includes terms and financial covenants that may limit or delay our ability to carry out our business plans effectively. In particular, the 2007 Credit Agreement includes restrictions on investments that may prevent us from taking advantage of significant business opportunities or making investments in joint ventures and acquisitions that we have targeted for future growth. The 2007 Credit Agreement also contains limitations on capital expenditures that may preclude capital investment in our business, or delay those investments. 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Interruption of normal operations at our key manufacturing facilities may impair our production capabilities. Some of our key products, including fire hydrants, valves and ductile iron pipe, are manufactured at large manufacturing facilities. The operations at our major manufacturing facilities may be impaired by various operating risks, including, but not limited to: • catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, floods, earthquakes or other similar occurrences; • interruptions in raw materials or other manufacturing inputs; • adverse government regulations; • equipment breakdowns or failures; • violations of our permit requirements or revocation of permits; • releases of pollutants and hazardous substances to air, soil, surface water or ground water; • shortages of equipment or spare parts; and • labor disputes. The occurrence of any of these events could impair our cash flows and results of operations. Our brass valve products contain lead, which may be replaced in the future. Several states restrict the use of lead in water infrastructure products. In addition, California and other state legislatures have recently enacted laws which impose further restrictions on products used in water transmission and otherwise. Legislation to substantially restrict lead content in water infrastructure products also has been introduced in the U. S. Congress. Congress or other states may enact similar legislation to restrict the content of lead or other materials in products that come into contact with water. Mueller Co. produces brass products that comply with these existing standards. Future legislation could further restrict the permitted amount of lead or other materials in products we sell. Complying with such restrictions could adversely affect our costs to manufacture products or influence our decisions regarding which markets to serve. We have limited experience operating as a stand-alone company. We became a stand-alone publicly traded company as a result of Walter Energy, Inc (“Walter Energy”, formerly Walter Industries, Inc.) distributing our Series B common stock to its shareholders on December 14, 2006 (the “Spin-off”). Our operating as a stand-alone publicly traded company may place significant demands on our management, operational and technical resources. Our successful future performance will depend on our ability to function as a stand-alone publicly traded company, to finance our operations and to adapt our information systems to changes in our businesses. Some of the financial information included in this annual report for periods prior to the Spin-off may not reflect what the operating results would have been had we been a stand-alone publicly traded company. We are subject to certain risks inherent in managing a decentralized organization. We currently have three business segments and operate under a decentralized organizational structure. The application of consistent accounting policies, internal controls, procedures and compliance programs across all of our operations may enhance efficiency and operating effectiveness and improve corporate information flows. We continue to communicate such policies, controls, procedures and programs and it could take time for such implementation to be complete. Further, we may need to modify existing compliance programs and processes to increase efficiency and operating effectiveness and improve corporate visibility into our decentralized operations and it could take time for any such modifications to be implemented across our operations. During the implementation periods, our decentralized operating approach could result in inconsistent management practices and procedures, which could adversely affect our businesses. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We may be unsuccessful in identifying, acquiring or integrating suitable acquisitions. A part of our growth strategy depends on expansion, which we expect to occur primarily through acquisitions of businesses that can be integrated successfully into our existing businesses and that will provide us with complementary manufacturing capabilities, products, services, customers or end users. However, we may be unable to identify targets that will be suitable for acquisition. In addition, if we identify a suitable acquisition candidate, our ability to complete the acquisition will depend on a variety of factors, including our ability to finance the acquisition. Our ability to finance our acquisitions is subject to a number of factors, including the availability of adequate cash, cash flows from operations or acceptable financing terms and the terms of our amended 2007 Credit Agreement. In addition, there may be many challenges to integrating acquired companies and businesses into our Company, including eliminating redundant operations, facilities and systems, coordinating management and personnel, retaining key employees, managing different corporate cultures and achieving cost reductions and cross-selling opportunities. We may not be able to meet these challenges. Our identifiable intangible assets are subject to possible impairment charges. At September 30, 2009, we had $663.6 million of identifiable intangible assets on our balance sheet. All identifiable intangible assets are reviewed at least annually for possible impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in our performance, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of or affect the products and services sold by our businesses, and a variety of other factors. Any identified impairment must be expensed immediately as a charge to results of operations. We have substantial debt and we may incur additional debt in the future. At September 30, 2009, our total debt was $740.2 million compared to total assets of $1,739.5 million and total stockholders’ equity of $436.3 million. The level of our debt could have important consequences, including: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our debt instruments; • limiting cash flow available for general corporate purposes, including capital expenditures and acquisitions, because a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations must be dedicated to servicing our debt; • limiting our ability to obtain additional debt financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions; • limiting our flexibility to react to competitive and other changes in our industry and economic conditions generally; and • exposing us to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations because a portion of our borrowings is at variable rates of interest, which could result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our debt and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our debt, which may not be successful. Our ability to service or to refinance our debt will depend upon our future operating performance, which will be affected by our ability to succeed in carrying out our business plans and by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, business and other factors beyond our control. Our businesses may not generate sufficient cash flows from operations or future borrowings may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce investments, dividends and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. However, we may not be able to accomplish these actions on 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements satisfactory terms, or at all. In addition, these actions, if accomplished, could affect the operation and growth of our businesses and may not permit us to meet our debt service obligations. We may not be able to satisfy our debt covenants. Our amended 2007 Credit Agreement requires the maintenance of specified financial ratios. Our ability to satisfy those requirements can be affected by events beyond our control, and there is a risk that we will not meet those tests. A breach of any of the financial or other covenants could result in a default under the amended 2007 Credit Agreement and Senior Subordinated Notes (together the “senior credit facilities”). If an event of default were not remedied after the delivery of notice of default and lapse of any relevant grace period, the holders of our debt would be able to declare it immediately due and payable. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our senior credit facilities, the lenders could also terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the indebtedness under our amended 2007 Credit Agreement. We have pledged substantially all of our assets (including our intellectual property), other than the assets of our foreign subsidiaries, as security under the amended 2007 Credit Agreement. If the lenders under our amended 2007 Credit Agreement or holders of our Senior Subordinated Notes accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay our senior credit facilities and our other indebtedness, which could negatively impact the value of our common stock and our ability to operate as a going concern. Further, the covenants in our senior credit facilities limit our ability to engage in certain transactions. Changes in our credit ratings and macroeconomic conditions may affect our borrowing costs, limit our financing options and reduce the flexibility of our financing in the future. Our senior credit facilities are rated by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service and we are currently rated below-investment grade by both rating agencies. Any future borrowings will reflect the impact of these ratings, and additional reductions in our credit ratings could further increase our borrowing costs, subject us to more onerous terms and reduce our borrowing flexibility. Such limitations on our financing options may affect our ability to refinance existing debt or fund major acquisitions or capital-intensive internal initiatives. In addition, deteriorating economic conditions, including a recession, market disruptions, tightened credit markets and significantly wider corporate borrowing spreads, may make it more difficult or costly for us to finance significant transactions or obtain replacement financing for our existing debt. Our business may be harmed by work stoppages and other labor relations matters. We are subject to a risk of work stoppages and other labor relations matters because a large portion of our hourly workforce is represented by collective bargaining agreements. At September 30, 2009, approximately 75% of our hourly workforce was covered by these agreements. These employees are represented by locals from six different unions, including the Glass, Molders, Pottery, Plastics and Allied Workers International Union, which represents the largest number of our employees. Our labor agreements will be negotiated as they expire at various times through June 2012. Work stoppages for an extended period of time could impair our businesses. Labor costs are a significant element of the total costs involved in our manufacturing process, and an increase in the costs of labor could therefore harm our businesses. In addition, the freight companies that deliver our products to our customers generally use truck drivers represented by collective bargaining agreements, and our businesses could suffer if these truck drivers face work stoppages or support other work stoppages. If the Employee Free Choice Act is adopted, our employee related costs could increase The Employee Free Choice Act (“EFCA”) or a variation of it could be enacted in the future and could have an adverse impact on our businesses. EFCA aims to amend the National Labor Relations Act, by making it easier for workers to obtain union representation and increasing the penalties employers may incur if they engage in 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements labor practices in violation of the National Labor Relations Act. EFCA requires the National Labor Relations Board (“NLRB”) to review petitions filed by employees for the purpose of creating a labor organization and to certify a bargaining representative without directing an election if a majority of the bargaining unit employees have authorized designation of the representative. EFCA also requires the parties to begin bargaining within 10 days of the receipt of the petition, or longer time if mutually agreed upon. In addition, if the union and employer cannot agree upon the terms of a first collective bargaining agreement within 90 days, which can be extended by mutual agreement, either party can request federal mediation, which could lead to binding arbitration if an agreement still cannot be reached after an additional 30 days which can be extended by mutual agreement. EFCA would also require the NLRB to seek a federal injunction against an employer whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that the employer has discharged or discriminated against an employee to encourage or discourage membership in the labor organization, threatened to discharge or otherwise discriminate against an employee in order to interfere with, restrain, or coerce employees in the exercise of guaranteed collective bargaining rights, or engaged in any other related unfair labor practice that significantly interferes with, restrains, or coerces employees in the exercise of such guaranteed rights. EFCA adds additional remedies for such violations, including back pay plus liquidated damages and civil penalties to be determined by the NLRB not to exceed $20,000 per infraction. Our sales are influenced by weather conditions and the level of construction activity at different times of the year; we may not be able to generate sales that are sufficient to cover our expenses during certain periods of the year. Some of our products, including ductile iron pipe, valves and fire hydrants are moderately seasonal, with lower sales in our first and second fiscal quarters when weather conditions throughout most of North America tend to be cold resulting in lower levels of construction activity. This seasonality in demand has resulted in fluctuations in our sales and operating results. In order to satisfy demand during expected peak periods, we may incur costs associated with inventory build-up, and there can be no assurance that our projections as to future needs will be accurate. We have a backlog of orders for some products for which we have inadequate inventories, or which are made-to-order. Because many of our expenses are fixed, seasonal trends can cause reductions in our income from operations and profit margins and deterioration of our financial condition during periods affected by lower production or sales activity. We may be subject to product liability or warranty claims that could require us to make significant payments. We are exposed to product liability, warranty, and other claims in the event that the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury or property damage. There is a risk that we will experience product liability or warranty losses in the future or that we will incur expenses to defend such claims. Such losses and expenses may be material. While we currently have product liability insurance, our product liability insurance coverage may not be adequate for any liabilities that may ultimately be incurred or the coverage may not continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. A successful claim brought against us in excess of our available insurance coverage could require us to make significant payments or a requirement to participate in a product recall may harm our reputation or profitability. Any such product claims can include costs to access and repair installed products, which can exceed our sales related to these products. We rely on a predecessor to Tyco International Ltd. (“Tyco”) to indemnify us for certain liabilities and there is a risk that Tyco may become unable or fail to fulfill its obligations. Under the terms of the acquisition agreement relating to the August 1999 sale by Tyco of the Mueller Co. and Anvil businesses to the prior owner of these businesses, we are indemnified by Tyco for all liabilities arising in connection with the operation of these businesses prior to their sale by Tyco, including with respect to products manufactured or sold prior to the closing of that transaction. The indemnity survives forever and is not subject to any dollar limits. In the past, Tyco has made substantial payments and/or assumed defense of claims 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements pursuant to this indemnification provision. In addition, Tyco’s indemnity does not cover product liabilities to the extent caused by our products manufactured after that transaction. In June 2007, Tyco was separated into three separate publicly traded companies. Should Tyco’s successor become financially unable or fail to comply with the terms of the indemnity, we may be responsible for such obligations or liabilities. For more information about our potential product liabilities, see “Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS”. New governmental regulation relating to carbon dioxide emissions may subject us to significant new costs and restrictions on our operations. Certain of our manufacturing plants use significant amounts of electricity and natural gas and certain of our plants emit significant amounts of carbon dioxide. Federal and state courts and administrative agencies are considering the scope and scale of carbon dioxide emission regulation under various laws pertaining to the environment, energy use and development and greenhouse gas emissions. There are bills pending in Congress that would regulate carbon dioxide emissions through a cap-and-trade system under which emitters would be required to buy allowances to offset emissions of carbon dioxide. In addition, several states are considering various carbon dioxide registration and reduction programs. Carbon dioxide regulation could increase the price of the electricity we purchase, increase costs for our use of natural gas, potentially restrict access to or the use of natural gas or require us to purchase allowances to offset our own emissions. Federal, state and local governments may also pass laws mandating the use of alternative energy sources, such as wind and the sun, which may increase the cost of energy used in our operations. While future emission regulation appears likely, it is too early to predict how this regulation will affect our business, operations or financial results. We are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that could subject us to liability for fines, cleanups and other damages, require us to incur significant costs to modify our operations and increase our manufacturing costs. We are subject to various laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety and must incur capital and other expenditures to comply with these requirements. Failure to comply with any environmental, health or safety requirements could result in the assessment of damages, or imposition of penalties, suspension of production, a required upgrade or change to equipment or processes or a cessation of operations at one or more of our facilities. Because these laws are complex, constantly changing and may be applied retroactively, there is a risk that these requirements, in particular as they change in the future, may impair our businesses, profitability and results of operations. In addition, we incurred costs to comply with the National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants issued by the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) for iron and steel foundries and for our foundries’ painting operations. See “Item 1. BUSINESS—Environmental Matters”. We may be required to conduct investigations and perform remedial activities that could require us to incur material costs in the future. Our operations involve the use of hazardous substances and the disposal of hazardous wastes. We may incur costs to manage these substances and wastes and may be subject to claims for damage for personal injury, property damage or damage to natural resources. U.S. Pipe has been identified as a potentially responsible party liable under federal environmental laws for a portion of the cleanup costs with regard to two sites, one in Alabama and one in California, and is currently subject to an administrative consent order requiring certain monitoring and cleanup with regard to a New Jersey facility. Such cleanup costs could be substantial and could have a negative effect on our profitability and cash flows in any given reporting period. For more information about our environmental compliance and potential environmental liabilities, see “Item 1. BUSINESS—Environmental Matters.” 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our businesses and ability to compete could suffer if we fail to protect our intellectual property. Our businesses depend upon our technology and expertise, which is largely developed internally. While we believe that none of our operating units is substantially dependent on any single patent, trademark, copyright or other form of intellectual property, we rely on a combination of patent protection, copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets protection, employee and third party confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. There is a risk that the measures we take to protect our intellectual property rights may not adequately deter infringement, misappropriation or independent third-party development of our technology or to prevent an unauthorized third party from obtaining or using information or intellectual property that we regard as proprietary or to keep others from using brand names similar to our own. The disclosure, misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property could harm our competitive position. In addition, our actions to enforce our rights may result in substantial costs and diversion of management and other resources. We may also be subject to intellectual property infringement claims from time to time, which may result in our incurring additional expenses and diverting our resources to respond to these claims. Our ability to sell our products could suffer if transportation for our products becomes unavailable or uneconomic for our customers. Transportation costs are a critical factor in a customer’s purchasing decision. Increases in transportation costs could make our ductile iron pipe and other products less competitive with the same or alternative products from competitors. We typically depend upon rail, barge and trucking systems to deliver our products to customers. While our customers typically arrange and pay for transportation from our factory to the point of use, disruption of these transportation services because of weather-related problems, strikes, lock-outs or other events could temporarily impair our ability to supply our products to our customers thereby resulting in lost sales and reduced profitability. Our expenditures for postretirement benefit and pension obligations are significant and could be materially higher than we have predicted if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect. We provide a range of benefits to our employees and retired employees, including pensions and postretirement healthcare. We record annual amounts relating to these plans based on calculations specified by generally accepted accounting principles, which include various actuarial assumptions. At September 30, 2009, the market value of U.S. pension plan assets was approximately $270.0 million. The investment performance of our U.S. pension plans for the year ended September 30, 2009 was a gain of $0.2 million. Based on the requirements of the Pension Protection Act, we contributed $23.7 million to our U.S. pension plans in fiscal 2009. We currently estimate contributing approximately $23 million to $25 million to our U.S. pension plans during fiscal 2010. Assumed health care cost trend rates, discount rates, expected return on plan assets and salary increases have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the pension and health care plans. Cash expenditures and costs that we incur could be materially higher. Further, the current volatile economic environment and the rapid deterioration in equity markets in late 2008 and early 2009 have caused investment performance to decline. As a result, we may be required to increase the amount of cash contributions we make into our pension plans in the future in order to meet funding level requirements. Compliance with the securities laws and regulations is likely to make it more difficult and expensive for us to maintain directors and officers liability insurance and to attract and retain qualified members of our Board of Directors. We expect the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board to continue to impose compliance burdens and costs on us. Those rules and regulations may make it more difficult and 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements expensive for us to maintain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to maintain coverage. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our Board of Directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and executive officers. Risks Relating to Our Relationship with Walter Energy We may have substantial additional liability for federal income tax allegedly owed by Walter Energy. Each member of a consolidated group for federal income tax purposes is severally liable for the federal income tax liability of each other member of the consolidated group for any year in which it is a member of the group at any time during such year. Each member of the Walter Energy consolidated group, which included us (including our subsidiaries) through December 14, 2006, is also jointly and severally liable for pension and benefit funding and termination liabilities of other group members, as well as certain benefit plan taxes. Accordingly, we could be liable under such provisions in the event any such liability is incurred, and not discharged, by any other member of the Walter Energy consolidated group for any period during which we were included in the Walter Energy consolidated group. A dispute exists with regard to federal income taxes for fiscal years 1980 to 1994 and 1999 to 2001 allegedly owed by the Walter Energy consolidated group, which included U.S. Pipe during these periods. According to Walter Energy’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2009, Walter Energy’s management estimates that the amount of tax claimed by the Internal Revenue Service is approximately $34.0 million for issues currently in dispute in bankruptcy court for matters unrelated to us. This amount is subject to interest and penalties. In addition, the Internal Revenue Service has issued a Notice of Proposed Deficiency assessing additional tax of $82.2 million for the Walter Energy tax years ended May 31, 2000, December 31, 2000 and December 31, 2001. As a matter of law, we are jointly and severally liable for any final tax determination, which means that in the event Walter Energy is unable to pay any amounts owed, we would be liable. Walter Energy disclosed in the above mentioned Form 10-Q that they believe their filing positions have substantial merit and that they intend to defend vigorously any claims asserted. The tax allocation agreement between us and Walter Energy allocates to us certain tax risks associated with the Spin-off. Walter Energy effectively controlled all of our tax decisions for periods during which we were a member of the Walter Energy consolidated federal income tax group and certain combined, consolidated or unitary state and local income tax groups. Under the terms of the income tax allocation agreement between us and Walter Energy dated May 26, 2006, we generally compute our tax liability on a stand-alone basis, but Walter Energy has sole authority to respond to and conduct all tax proceedings (including tax audits) relating to our federal income and combined state returns, to file all such returns on behalf of us and to determine the amount of our liability to (or entitlement to payment from) Walter Energy for such periods. This arrangement may result in conflicts of interests between us and Walter Energy. In addition, the tax allocation agreement provides that if the Spin-off is determined not to be tax-free pursuant to Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, we generally will be responsible for any taxes incurred by Walter Energy or its shareholders if such taxes result from certain of our actions or omissions and for a percentage of any such taxes that are not a result of our actions or omissions or Walter Energy’s actions or omissions or taxes based upon our market value relative to Walter Energy’s market value. Additionally, to the extent that Walter Energy was unable to pay taxes, if any, attributable to the Spin-off and for which it is responsible under our tax allocation agreement, we could be liable for those taxes as a result of being a member of the Walter Energy consolidated group for the year in which the Spin-off occurred. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements 