ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves certain risks. This section describes material risks that our management believes are specific to us and our business. Before making an investment decision, you should read carefully and consider the risk factors below in conjunction with the other information in this Form 10-K and information incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes which are set forth in Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us at this time or that we currently deem immaterial could also materially and adversely affect our business and operations. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements and our actual results could differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. The following are certain material risks that our management believes are specific to us and our business. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such potential risks and, as such, this list of risk factors should not be viewed as all-inclusive or in any particular order. 29 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Pending Merger The pending Merger and related transactions involving CMS Bancorp and CMS with Customers Bancorp and Customers Bank are not certain to occur. Failure to comply with terms of the Merger Agreement in the interim prior to closing of the Merger could adversely affect our business. If the Merger and related transactions do not occur, our business, results of operations and our stock price could be materially adversely affected. On August 10, 2012, CMS Bancorp announced that it had entered into a definitive Agreement and Plan of Merger (“Merger Agreement”) with Customers Bancorp, Inc. (“Customers”), whereby through a series of transactions, CMS Bancorp will be merged into Customers and CMS will be merged into Customers’ wholly-owned bank subsidiary, Customers Bank (the “Merger”). Upon completion of the Merger, Customers is to acquire all outstanding shares of CMS Bancorp’s common stock in exchange for shares of Customers’ common stock based on an exchange ratio to be determined using a valuation date prior to the closing of the transaction. Any fractional shares that result due to this exchange of shares will be paid in cash. Consummation of the Merger is subject to the satisfaction of a number of conditions, including but not limited to: (i) approval of the Merger by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of CMS Bancorp’s common stock; (ii) the receipt of all required regulatory approvals and non-objections; (iii) the non-occurrence of any event that has a “material adverse effect” on CMS Bancorp and its subsidiaries; and (iv) as of the closing date (before giving effect to the Merger), CMS and its subsidiaries shall have, on a consolidated basis, nonperforming assets (as defined in the Merger Agreement) less than or equal to $12 million, as well as other conditions to closing as are customary in transactions such as the Merger. In addition, Customers is not required to seek regulatory approval with respect to the Merger until after regulatory approval is received by Customers for another bank merger transaction previously announced by Customers involving Acacia Federal Savings Bank, headquartered in Falls Church, Virginia (the “Acacia Transaction”). Assuming the satisfaction of such conditions, it is currently expected that the Merger will become effective in the first half of calendar year 2013. However, external factors that are beyond the control of CMS Bancorp, such as the failure to obtain stockholder approval, regulatory approval or non-objection, delay relating to the Acacia Transaction, or potential shareholder litigation, could cause a delay or inability of CMS Bancorp to consummate the Merger or the other related transactions. As a result of the pending Merger: (i) the attention of management and employees could be diverted from day-to-day operations as they focus on matters relating to preparation for integration of CMS’s operations with those of Customers Bank; (ii) the restrictions and limitations on the conduct of CMS Bancorp’s business pending the Merger and other related transactions could disrupt or otherwise adversely affect our business and relationships with our customers, and could not be in the best interests of CMS Bancorp if it were to have to act as an independent entity following a termination of the Merger Agreement; (iii) CMS Bancorp’s ability to retain its existing employees could be adversely affected due to the uncertainties created by the Merger; and (iv) CMS Bancorp’s ability to maintain existing customer relationships, or to establish new ones, could be adversely affected. Any delay in consummating the Merger could exacerbate these issues. There can be no assurance that all of the conditions to closing will be satisfied, or where possible, waived, or that the Merger and/or related transactions will become effective. If the Merger and related transactions do not become effective because conditions to closing are not satisfied, or because one of the parties, or all of the parties mutually, terminate the Merger Agreement, the following adverse effects are possible: (i) CMS Bancorp’s stockholders will not receive the Customers’ common stock in exchange for Company comment stock which Customers has agreed to pay based on an exchange ratio; (ii) CMS Bancorp’s stock price could decline; (iii) CMS Bancorp’s business could be adversely affected; (iv) CMS Bancorp will have incurred significant transaction costs related to negotiating and working towards the Merger, which may or may not be reimbursable up to $300,000 by Customers; and (v) under certain circumstances, the Company could have to pay Customers a termination fee of up to $1,000,000. For further information regarding the Merger, see the Company’s Form 8-K filed with the SEC on August 10, 2012. 30 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Industry and Business Difficult economic and market conditions have adversely affected our industry. We are operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, including generally uncertain world, national and local conditions. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption. Since 2008, dramatic declines in the housing market, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions across the United States. General downward economic trends, reduced availability of commercial credit and increasing unemployment have negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. This market turmoil and tightening of credit led to increased commercial and consumer deficiencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we could face the following risks in connection with these events: • We face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation could increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. • Customer demand for loans secured by real estate could be further reduced due to weaker economic conditions, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or an increase in interest rates, all of which factors could lower our profitability. • The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. The level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions could adversely affect the accuracy of our estimates which could, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. • The value of the portfolio of investment securities that we hold could be adversely affected. Determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires significant estimates, and actual losses could vary from current estimates. CMS maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for loans in its portfolio that may not be repaid in their entirety. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us and CMS to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which could undergo material changes. In evaluating the adequacy of CMS’s allowance for loan losses, we consider numerous quantitative factors, including our historical charge-off experience, growth of our loan portfolio, changes in the composition of our loan portfolio and the volume of delinquent and classified loans. In addition, we use information about specific borrower situations, including their financial position and estimated collateral values, to estimate the risk and amount of loss for those borrowers. Finally, we consider many qualitative factors, including general and economic business conditions, duration of the current business cycle, current general market collateral valuations, trends apparent in any of the factors we take into account and other matters, which are by nature subjective and fluid. Our estimates of the risk of loss and amount of loss on any loan are complicated by the significant uncertainties surrounding borrowers’ abilities to successfully execute their business models through changing economic environments, competitive challenges and other factors. In considering information about specific borrower situations, our analysis is subject to the risk that we are provided inaccurate or incomplete information. Because of the degree of uncertainty and susceptibility of these factors to change, CMS’s actual losses could vary from our current estimates. 31 Table of Contents Additionally, bank regulators periodically review CMS’s allowance for loan losses and could require an increase in the provision for loan losses or recognize loan charge-offs based upon their judgments, which could be different from ours. While we believe that the current amount of allowance for loan losses is sufficient to absorb inherent losses in our loan portfolio, any increase in CMS’s allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs required by these regulatory authorities could adversely affect our operating results. Until economic and market conditions improve, CMS could continue to incur additional losses relating to an increase in nonperforming loans. CMS does not record interest income on non-accrual loans or other real estate owned, thereby adversely affecting its income, and increasing its loan administration costs. When CMS takes collateral in foreclosures and similar proceedings, it is required to mark the related loan to the then fair market value of the collateral, which could result in a loss. These loans and other real estate owned also increase its risk profile and the capital its regulators believe is appropriate in light of such risks. As a result of current economic conditions, additional provisions for loan losses could be necessary. We are a community bank and our ability to maintain our reputation is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so could materially adversely affect our performance. We are a community bank, and our reputation is one of the most valuable components of our business. As such, we strive to conduct our business in a manner that enhances our reputation. This is done, in part, by recruiting, hiring and retaining employees who share our core values of being an integral part of the communities we serve, delivering superior service to our customers and caring about our customers and associates. If our reputation is negatively affected, by the actions of our employees or otherwise, our business and, therefore, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. The repeal of federal prohibitions on payment of interest on demand deposits could increase our interest expense. Federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the Dodd-Frank Act. If market conditions warrant us to begin offering interest on demand deposits to attract new customers or maintain current customers, our interest expense will increase and our net interest margin will decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our profitability, like that of most financial institutions, depends substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on our interest-bearing liabilities. We also are subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and investment securities. Increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and investment securities as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. In a decreasing interest rate environment, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and securities. In an increasing interest rate environment, we are subject to the risk that interest costs on deposits and borrowings could rise more quickly than interest income from loans and investments. While we intend to manage the effects of changes in interest rates by adjusting the terms, maturities and pricing of our assets and liabilities, our efforts may not be effective in a changing rate environment and our financial condition and results of operations could suffer. 32 Table of Contents Our loan portfolio includes loans with a higher risk of loss. While the majority of CMS’s loan portfolio consists of residential mortgage loans, it also originates other types of loans including commercial loans. Commercial loans may expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, commercial loans may also involve relatively large loan balances to individual borrowers or groups of borrowers. These loans also have greater credit risk than residential real estate because repayment is generally dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower’s business. The current downturn in the real estate market, unemployment and local economy could adversely affect the value of the properties securing the loans or revenues from the borrower’s business thereby increasing the risk of non-performing loans. The national and local real estate markets generally remain stagnant, with a continued slowdown in the general housing market that is evidenced by reports of reduced levels of new and existing home sales, increasing inventories of houses on the market, stagnant to declining property values and an increase in the length of time houses remain on the market. No assurances can be given that these conditions will improve or will not worsen. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate; therefore we have a high degree of risk from a downturn in our real estate markets and the local economy and face risks that are unique to holding foreclosed real estate. A further downturn in the real estate market and local economy in Westchester County could hurt our business because a significant portion of our loans are secured by real estate located in Westchester County. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by, among other things, changes in regional or local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates, and the availability of loans to potential purchasers. If real estate values decline in Westchester County, the value of real estate collateral securing our loans could be significantly reduced. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. Additionally, CMS faces certain risks that are unique to holding foreclosed real estate, such as the risk that hazardous or toxic substances are found on the foreclosed property, which could require CMS to incur substantial expenses to remediate or materially reduce the property’s value. Although CMS has policies and procedures in place to ensure that an environmental review is performed before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews could turn out to be insufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard in connection with foreclosed real estate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. At September 30, 2012, CMS had no foreclosed real estate. Changes in our asset quality could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. When we discuss “asset quality,” we generally mean the likelihood that a borrower will repay a loan, with interest, on time. We think our overall asset quality is good, and has been that way for several years. We cannot predict whether our asset quality will change because changes in the economy can impact asset quality. If our asset quality were to deteriorate, it could expose us to greater credit risk and adversely affect our financial condition. The results of our operations may be adversely affected if asset valuations cause other-than-temporary impairment charges. CMS may be required to record future impairment charges on our investment securities if such securities suffer declines in value that are considered other-than-temporary. Numerous factors, including lack of liquidity for re-sales of certain investment securities, absence of reliable pricing information for investment securities, 33 Table of Contents adverse changes in business climate, adverse actions by regulators, or unanticipated changes in the competitive environment could have a negative effect on our investment portfolio in future periods. If an impairment charge is significant enough it could affect the ability of CMS to upstream dividends to CMS Bancorp, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and could also negatively impact our regulatory capital ratios and result in CMS not being classified as “well capitalized” for regulatory purposes. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure. There can be no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Liquidity risks could affect operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources to accommodate our existing and future lending and investment activities could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity and severely constrain our financial flexibility. Our primary source of funding is retail deposits gathered through our network of branch offices. Our alternative funding sources include, without limitation, brokered certificates of deposit, federal funds purchased, Federal Reserve Discount Window borrowings, FHLB-NY advances and short and long-term debt. CMS has historically obtained funds principally through local deposits and it has a base of lower cost transaction deposits. Generally, we believe local deposits are a cheaper and more stable source of funds than other borrowings, because interest rates paid for local deposits are typically lower than interest rates charged for borrowings from other institutional lenders and reflect a mix of transaction and time deposits, whereas brokered deposits typically are higher cost time deposits. Our costs of funds, profitability and liquidity will be adversely affected to the extent we have to rely upon higher cost borrowings from other institutional lenders or brokers to fund loan demand or liquidity needs, and changes in our deposit mix and growth could adversely affect our profitability and the ability to expand our loan portfolio. We may look to sell production assets, such as mortgage loans, into the secondary market as a means to manage the size of our balance sheet and manage the use of our capital. The demand for these products in the capital markets is not driven by us and may not benefit us at the time we look to sell the loans. Our liquidity, on a parent only basis, could be adversely affected by certain restrictions on receiving dividends from the Bank without prior regulatory approval. Our financial success is dependent on the prevailing economic, political and business conditions as well as the population growth in Westchester County, New York. Our success and growth is dependent on the income levels, deposits and population growth in our primary market area, which is Westchester County, New York. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally are unfavorable, our business will be negatively affected. 34 Table of Contents Additionally, there are inherent risks associated with our lending activities, including credit risk, which is the risk that borrowers may not repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing loans decreases. Our business operations and activities are predominantly concentrated in Westchester County and most of our credit exposure is in that area, so we are specifically at risk from adverse economic, political and business conditions that affect Westchester County. Accordingly, economic and business conditions in Westchester County, such as increases in unemployment, commercial and consumer delinquencies and real estate foreclosures, as well as decreases in real gross domestic product, home and land prices or home sales, will each adversely impact our credit risk. The downturn in our local economy may negatively affect our future growth possibilities by limiting funds available for deposit and our borrowers’ ability to repay their loans on a timely basis. Our current primary market area is principally located in Westchester County, New York. Our future growth opportunities depend on the growth and stability of our regional economy and our ability to expand our market area. The current economic downturn could cause significant increases in non-performing loans, which would hurt our profits. Additionally, a decrease in asset quality could require additions to our allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses, which would hurt our profits. A decline in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage loans to become inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss. We depend on our executive officers and key personnel to continue the implementation of our business strategy towards closing of the Merger and could be harmed by the loss of their services. We believe that our growth and future success will depend in large part upon the skills of our management team. The competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry is intense, and the loss of our key personnel could adversely affect our business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing key personnel or attract additional qualified personnel. We have an employment agreement with our President and Chief Executive Officer and change in control agreements with several other senior executive officers which are intended to incentivize such senior executive officers to remain with CMS during the pendency of the Merger. The loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers and key personnel could impair our ability to continue to implement our business strategy towards closing of the Merger. In particular, regulatory restrictions could be imposed on our ability to compensate our key executive officers, which would adversely impact our ability to retain key personnel. Our financial success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in highly competitive markets. We operate in the highly competitive market of Westchester County, New York. Our growth and success depends on our ability to compete effectively in this market. Through CMS, we compete for loans, deposits and other financial services in geographic markets with other local, regional and national commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer financial companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other mutual funds, as well as super-regional, national and international financial institutions. Many of our competitors offer products and services different from us, and have substantially greater resources, name recognition and market presence than we do, which benefits them in attracting business. Larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we can and have broader customer and geographic bases to draw upon. Competitors that are not depository institutions are generally not subject to the extensive regulations that apply to us. Through CMS, we compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we must attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. There is a risk that we will not be able to compete successfully with these other financial institutions in our markets, and that we may have to pay higher interest rates to attract deposits or charge lower interest rates to obtain loan volume, resulting in reduced profitability. 35 Table of Contents Changes in the Federal Reserve’s monetary or fiscal policies could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our earnings will be affected by domestic economic conditions and the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States government and its agencies. The Federal Reserve has, and is likely to continue to have, an important impact on the operating results of depository institutions through its power to implement national monetary policy, among other things, in order to curb inflation or combat a recession. The Federal Reserve affects the levels of bank loans, investments and deposits through its control over the issuance of United States government securities, its regulation of the discount rate applicable to member banks and its influence over reserve requirements to which member banks are subject. We cannot predict the nature or impact of future changes in monetary and fiscal policies. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and, as a result, investors and depositors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, the trading price of our stock and our ability to attract additional deposits, which could jeopardize the closing of the Merger. We are required to include in our annual reports filed with the SEC a report from our management regarding internal control over financial reporting. As a result, we documented and evaluated our internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and SEC rules and regulations, which require an annual management report on our internal control over financial reporting, including, among other matters, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to identify and correct any significant deficiencies in the design or operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or fail to prevent fraud, current and potential stockholders and depositors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, the trading price of our stock and our ability to attract additional deposits, which could jeopardize the closing of the Merger. Negative developments in the financial industry and the credit markets may subject us to additional regulation. As a result of ongoing challenges facing the U.S. economy, the potential exists for the promulgation of new laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry and credit markets, and the impact of new legislation and agency rulemakings in response to those developments, may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and may adversely impact our financial performance. Provisions of our charter, bylaws and certain laws containing antitakeover provisions, as well as the Merger Agreement, may prevent transactions you might favor, including a sale or merger of CMS Bancorp with a party other than Customers Bancorp pursuant to the previously announced merger plans. Provisions of our charter and bylaws may make it more difficult for companies or persons from gaining control of us through a tender offer, business combination, proxy contest or some other method, even though you might be in favor of the transaction. These anti-takeover provisions include: • limitations on voting rights of the beneficial owners of more than 10% of our common stock; • supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations and changes to some provisions of the charter and bylaws; • the election of directors to staggered terms of three years; and • provisions regarding the timing and content of stockholder proposals and nominations. 36 Table of Contents Furthermore, federal law requires Federal Reserve approval prior to any direct or indirect acquisition of “control” (as defined in Federal Reserve regulations) of CMS, including any acquisition of control of CMS Bancorp. By statute, a company would be found to “control” CMS if the company: (1) directly or indirectly or acting in concert with one or more persons, owns, controls, or has the power to vote 25% or more of the voting securities of CMS Bancorp or CMS; (2) controls in any manner the election of a majority of the directors of CMS Bancorp’s or CMS’s board; or (3) directly or indirectly exercises a controlling influence over the management or policies of CMS Bancorp and CMS. The Federal Reserve’s implementing regulations provide a specific definition of “control” similar to the statutory definition, with certain additional provisions. In addition to the rebuttable presumptions of control set forth in the implementing regulations, the Federal Reserve’s supervision manual for supervised institutions provides that there are a number of other circumstances that are indicative of control and may call for further investigation to uncover facts that support a determination of control. Moreover, under the Merger Agreement, CMS Bancorp is subject to covenants relating to its communications with potential merger partners and is restricted from actively seeking a merger transaction with a party other than Customers Bancorp. The downgrade of U.S. government securities by the credit rating agencies could have a material adverse effect on CMS Bancorp’s operations, earnings, and financial condition. The recent debate in Congress regarding the national debt ceiling, federal budget deficit concerns, and overall weakness in the economy resulted in actual and threatened downgrades of U.S. government securities by the various major credit ratings agencies, including Standard and Poor’s and Fitch Ratings. While the federal banking agencies including the Federal Reserve and the FDIC have issued guidance indicating that, for risk-based capital purposes, the risk weights for U.S. Treasury securities and other securities issued or guaranteed by the U.S. government, government agencies, and government-sponsored entities will not be affected by the downgrade, the downgrade of U.S. government securities by Standard and Poor’s and the possible future downgrade of the federal government’s credit rating by one or both of the other two major rating agencies (which has been forewarned by Fitch Ratings), could create uncertainty in the U.S. and global financial markets and cause other events which, directly or indirectly, could adversely affect CMS Bancorp’s operations, earnings, and financial condition. We are subject to security and operational risks relating to our use of technology that could damage our reputation and our business. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Furthermore, we have access to large amounts of confidential financial information and control substantial financial assets, including those belonging to our customers, to whom we offer remote access, and we regularly transfer substantial financial assets by electronic means. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of our systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on standard Internet and other security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures. We also face the risk of operational disruption, failure, termination or capacity constraints caused by third parties that facilitate our business activities by providing technology such as software applications, as well as financial intermediaries. Such parties could also be the source of an attack on, or breach of, our operational systems, data or infrastructure. Employee errors could also subject us to financial claims for negligence. We maintain a system of internal controls and insurance coverage to mitigate against operational risks, including data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. Should our internal controls fail to prevent or detect an occurrence, and if any resulting loss is not insured or exceeds applicable insurance limits, such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 37 Table of Contents The operations of our business, including our interaction with customers, are increasingly done via electronic means, and this has increased our risks related to cybersecurity. We are exposed to the risk of cyber-attacks in the normal course of business. In general, cyber incidents can result from deliberate attacks or unintentional events. We have observed an increased level of attention in the industry focused on cyber-attacks that include, but are not limited to, gaining unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or causing operational disruption. Cyber-attacks may also be carried out in a manner that does not require gaining unauthorized access, such as by causing denial-of-service attacks on websites. Cyber-attacks may be carried out by third parties or insiders using techniques that range from highly sophisticated efforts to electronically circumvent network security or overwhelm websites to more traditional intelligence gathering and social engineering aimed at obtaining information necessary to gain access. The objectives of cyber-attacks vary widely and can include theft of financial assets, intellectual property, or other sensitive information, including the information belonging to our banking customers. Cyber-attacks may also be directed at disrupting our operations. While we have not incurred any material losses related to cyber-attacks, nor are we aware of any specific or threatened cyber-incidents as of the date of this report, we may incur substantial costs and suffer other negative consequences if we fall victim to successful cyber-attacks. Such negative consequences could include remediation costs that may include liability for stolen assets or information and repairing system damage that may have been caused; increased cybersecurity protection costs that may include organizational changes, deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, training employees, and engaging third party experts and consultants; lost revenues resulting from unauthorized use of proprietary information or the failure to retain or attract customers following an attack; litigation; and reputational damage adversely affecting customer or investor confidence. We are subject to extensive regulations that could limit or restrict our activities, and the cost of compliance is high. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by various regulatory agencies, currently including the NYSDFS, Federal Reserve and the FDIC. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect the DIF and depositors, not stockholders. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to regulatory capital requirements, which require us to maintain adequate capital to support our growth. If we fail to meet these capital and other regulatory requirements, our ability to grow, our cost of funds and FDIC insurance could be materially and adversely affected, which could jeopardize the Merger. Non-compliance with the USA PATRIOT Act, Bank Secrecy Act, Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, Truth-in-Lending Act or other laws and regulations could result in fines, sanctions or other adverse consequences. Financial institutions are required under the USA PATRIOT Act and Bank Secrecy Act to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money-laundering and terrorist activities. Financial institutions are also obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network if such activities are detected. These rules also require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Failure or the inability to comply with these regulations could result in fines or penalties, intervention or sanctions by regulators, and costly litigation or expensive additional controls and systems, which could jeopardize the closing of the Merger. In recent years, several banking institutions have received large fines for non-compliance with these laws and regulations. In addition, the federal government has imposed and is expected to expand laws and regulations relating to residential and consumer lending activities that create significant new compliance burdens and financial risks. We have developed policies and continue to augment 38 Table of Contents procedures and systems designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations, however it is possible for such safeguards to fail or prove deficient during the implementation phase to avoid non-compliance with such laws. We and CMS are currently undergoing changes in the way we are supervised and examined as a result of the consolidation of federal banking regulators called for by the Dodd-Frank Act, and as a result of the Charter Conversion of CMS, and could possibly experience operational challenges or increased costs in the course of full transition to our new regulators. As a result of regulatory restructuring called for by the Dodd-Frank Act, effective July 21, 2011, the Federal Reserve became the primary federal regulator of CMS Bancorp. The Federal Reserve has already begun to apply certain parts of its current consolidated supervisory program for bank holding companies, including significantly enhanced reporting requirements, to savings and loan holding companies. Accordingly, CMS Bancorp is currently transitioning to the jurisdiction of our new regulator and expects that some aspects of the regulatory restructuring process could result in increased costs, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We also expect to become subject to new examination, regulatory and reporting requirements. As a result of the Charter Conversion in June 2012, CMS became a New York state-chartered savings bank subject to the primary supervision and regulation of the NYSDFS and FDIC. Prior to the Charter Conversion, CMS had been subject to the primary supervision and regulation of the OCC, which had assumed such jurisdiction over federal savings associations from the OTS as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act. Accordingly, CMS is currently transitioning to the jurisdictions of our new state and federal regulators and expects that some aspects of the regulatory restructuring process could result in increased costs, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. CMS could also become subject to new examination, regulatory and reporting requirements. The Dodd-Frank Act also created a new government agency, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau or “CFPB” with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The CFPB has primary enforcement authority for banking institutions with more than $10 billion in assets and has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws applicable to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The CFPB recently announced several enforcement actions taken against various large banking institutions in this regard. We are continuing to closely monitor and evaluate developments under the Dodd-Frank Act, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations through significant increases in our regulatory compliance costs. The Dodd-Frank Act will, among other things, result in increased capital standards, and further new laws and regulations, which create regulatory uncertainty and which are expected to continue to significantly increase our regulatory compliance costs. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Federal Reserve to set minimum capital levels for depository institution holding companies (including savings and loan holding companies) that are as stringent as those required for insured depository institutions. Moreover, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, savings and loan holding companies will for the first time become subject to the same capital and activity requirements as those applicable to bank holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act and implementing regulations also require that all companies that directly or indirectly control an insured depository institution, including savings and loan holding companies, serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to their subsidiary savings associations’ depository institution(s). All of these regulatory actions that implement the Dodd-Frank Act are expected to further increase our regulatory compliance costs. On June 12, 2012, the federal banking agencies, including the Federal Reserve and FDIC issued notices of proposed rulemakings that revise each agency’s risk-based and leverage capital requirements consistent with 39 Table of Contents agreements reached by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, including implementation of a new common equity tier 1 minimum capital requirement and a higher minimum tier 1 capital requirement. Additionally, consistent with Basel III, the federal banking agencies propose to apply limits on a banking organization’s capital distributions and certain discretionary bonus payments if the banking organization does not hold a specified “buffer” of common equity tier 1 capital in addition to the minimum risk-based capital requirements. The proposed rulemaking also would revise the agencies’ prompt corrective action framework by incorporating the new regulatory capital minimums and updating the definition of tangible common equity. These capital requirements were originally proposed to be phased in beginning in January 2013, however in November 2012, the agencies issued guidance indicating that they do not expect the regulatory capital rules to actually become effective on such date, due to the volume of comments received and the wide range of views expressed during the comment period. There can be no assurance when, and in what form, such rules will be finalized. We cannot predict the impact that such proposals, once adopted, would have upon our financial condition or results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly, and this could make it difficult for you to resell shares of our common stock at times or at prices you find attractive. The stock market and, in particular, the market for financial institution stocks, has experienced significant volatility during the recent economic downturn. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. As a result, the trading volume in our common stock could fluctuate more than usual and cause significant price variations to occur. This could make it difficult for you to resell shares of our common stock at times or at prices you find attractive. The trading price of the shares of our common stock will depend on many factors that could change from time to time and could be beyond our control. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are those identified in the section entitled “Special Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” and as follows: • actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; • changes in financial estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our common stock or those of other financial institutions; • failure to meet analysts’ revenue or earnings estimates; • speculation in the press or investment community generally or relating to our reputation, our market area, our competitors or the financial services industry in general; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, restructurings, dispositions or financings; • actions by our current stockholders, including sales of common stock by existing stockholders and/or directors and executive officers; • fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; • proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments; • anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us; • trading activities in our common stock, including short-selling; • domestic and local economic factors unrelated to our performance; and • general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry. 40 Table of Contents A significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for individual stockholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation. The trading volume in our common stock has been low, and the sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could depress the price of our common stock and make it difficult for you to sell your shares. Our common stock is listed to trade on the Nasdaq Capital Market, but is thinly traded. As a result, you may not be able to sell your shares of common stock on short notice. Additionally, thinly traded stock can be more volatile than stock trading in an active public market. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock at one time could temporarily depress the market price of our common stock, making it difficult for you to sell your shares and impairing our ability to raise capital. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, and such capital may not be available when needed or at all. We are required by regulatory agencies to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations and such levels could be increased by legislative and regulatory developments. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, is significantly limited under the Merger Agreement and also depend in part on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control. We are limited under the Merger Agreement from, without the prior written consent of Customers, incurring indebtedness in excess of $100,000 except in the ordinary course of business and from issuing additional shares of CMS Bancorp common stock or other securities. Accordingly, we may not be able to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our financial position could deteriorate, which could impact the Merger. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 