Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of the risks and uncertainties described below. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business, financial condition or results of operations. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below and all the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our financial statements and related notes. The market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks and uncertainties. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry We will require additional capital to operate our business, and our short-term investments in auction rate securities may prove to be illiquid. We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to fund our working capital and capital resource needs into mid 2008. Our short-term investments include $4.2 million of investments in auction rate securities. Auction rate securities are variable-rate debt securities and have a long-term maturity with the interest rate reset through Dutch auctions that are typically held every 7, 28 or 35 days. The securities trade at par and are callable at par on any interest payment date at the option of the issuer. Interest is paid at the end of each auction period. Our auction rate securities are all AAA/Aaa rated and collateralized by student loans guaranteed by the U.S. government under the Federal Family Education Loan Program. Until February 2008, the auction rate securities market was highly liquid. Starting the week of February 11, 2008, a substantial number of auctions “failed” as a result of negative overall capital market conditions, meaning that there was not enough demand to sell the securities at auction. The result of a failed auction, which does not signify a default by the issuer, is that these securities continue to pay interest in accordance with their terms until there is a successful auction or until such time as other markets for these investments develop. We will not be able to liquidate any of these auction rate securities until a future auction is successful, or until we decide to sell the securities in a secondary market. A secondary market sale of any of these securities could take a significant amount of time to complete and would potentially result in a significant loss. Typically, the fair value of auction rate securities approximates par value due to the frequent resets through the auction-rate process. Given the current market conditions, we will continue to monitor our auction rate securities for substantive changes in relevant market conditions, changes in financial condition or other changes in these investments. We may be required to record unrealized losses for impairment if we determine that a decline in fair value of our auction rate securities has occurred that is temporary or other-than-temporary and these impairment charges could be substantial. It is possible that the potential lack of liquidity in our auction rate security investments could adversely affect our ability to fund operations beginning in May of 2008. We cannot predict whether future auctions related to our auction rate securities will be successful. We are currently seeking alternatives for reducing our exposure to the auction rate market, but may not be able to identify any such alternative. If we are not able to monetize some or all of our auction rate securities during the second quarter of 2008, it will have a material adverse effect on our ability to finance our future ongoing operations. Even with the successful sale of our auction rate securities, the funding of our operations beyond mid 2008 will require additional investments in our company in the form of equity or debt financing or through licensing our intellectual property to generate capital. We have been actively exploring various equity and debt financing alternatives as well as other strategic alternatives. Any sale of additional equity or issuance of debt will result in dilution to our current stockholders, and we cannot be certain that additional public or private financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we are unable to obtain additional financing, we will need to significantly reduce the scope of our operations including a reduction in the size of our sales and marketing, research and development, administrative and manufacturing staff 18 Table of Contents combined with the elimination of the significant programs and initiatives planned by each of those functional groups. These changes would have a material adverse effect on our business. Any inability to satisfy our liabilities as they come due could result in the need to file for bankruptcy. Our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm’s report on our financials statements includes an emphasis paragraph stating that there is substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. Since we commenced operations in 1999, we have incurred net losses primarily from costs relating to the development and commercialization of our Pillar System. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $85.5 million, which includes the non-cash deemed dividend of $20.8 million from the revision of preferred stock conversion prices in conjunction with our IPO. Without additional capital, we may run out of cash in the second quarter of 2008. We have prepared our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and satisfaction of liabilities and other commitments in the normal course of business. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm included herein contains an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern as a result of recurring losses from operations and insufficient capital resources to fund future operations. The funding of our operations beyond mid 2008 will require additional investments in our company in the form of equity or debt financing or through licensing our intellectual property to generate capital. We are actively exploring various equity and debt financing alternatives as well as various strategic alternatives. We expect to continue to invest in sales and marketing and research and development activities and, therefore, we expect to incur net losses through at least 2009. Our current or future business strategy may not be successful, and we may not become profitable in any future period. If we do become profitable, we cannot be certain that we will be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. A low stock price or our inability to comply with other applicable requirements could result in our common stock being delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market, which could affect its market price and liquidity and reduce our ability to raise capital. We are required to meet certain qualitative and financial tests (including a minimum closing bid price for our common stock of $1.00 per share) to maintain the listing of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market. We have not received notification from NASDAQ of a potential delisting. If we do not maintain compliance with the continued listing requirements for the NASDAQ Global Market within specified periods and subject to permitted extensions, our common stock may be recommended for delisting (subject to any appeal we would file or application to transfer our common stock to the NASDAQ Capital Market, if approved). If our common stock were delisted, it could be more difficult to buy or sell our common stock and to obtain accurate quotations, and the price of our stock could suffer a material decline. Delisting would also impair our ability to raise capital. We will not be successful if our Pillar System is not adopted for the treatment of snoring or mild to moderate obstructive sleep apnea. The first commercially available product based on our proprietary palatal implant technology is our patented Pillar System. Our success depends both on the acceptance and adoption of our Pillar System as a minimally invasive treatment for individuals suffering from mild to moderate OSA and socially disruptive and habitual snoring, by both patients and by physicians or other healthcare providers who treat sleep breathing disorders. Currently, a relatively limited number of physicians regularly perform the Pillar Procedure. We cannot predict how quickly, if at all, the medical community or other healthcare providers will accept our Pillar System, or, if accepted, the extent of its use. For us to be successful, our customers must be committed to treating sleep disordered breathing patients and also: • believe that the Pillar Procedure offers meaningful clinical and economic benefits as compared to the other therapies, procedures or devices, surgical and non-surgical, currently being used to treat patients suffering from mild to moderate OSA or snoring; 19 Table of Contents • use our Pillar System to treat individuals suffering from mild to moderate OSA or snoring either as a stand-alone treatment or in combination with procedures to treat other areas of upper airway obstruction, and achieve acceptable clinical outcomes in the patients they treat; • believe patients will pay for the Pillar Procedure out-of-pocket; and, • commit the time and resources required to modify the way in which they currently treat, or have historically treated, patients suffering from mild to moderate OSA and snoring. Studies have shown that a significant percentage of people who suffer from OSA remain undiagnosed and therefore do not seek treatment for OSA. Many of those diagnosed with mild to moderate OSA may be reluctant to seek treatment given the less severe nature of their condition, the potentially negative lifestyle effects of traditional treatments and the lack of awareness of new treatment options. If we are unable to increase public awareness of the prevalence of OSA or if the healthcare community treating sleep breathing disorders is slow to adopt, or fails to adopt, the Pillar Procedure as a treatment for individuals suffering from mild to moderate OSA and snoring, we would suffer a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future operating results are difficult to predict and may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, which may adversely affect the price of our common stock. The limited sales history of our Pillar System, together with our inability to predict how quickly, if at all, the sleep medicine community will accept our Pillar System, or, if accepted, the extent of its use, makes it difficult to predict future operating results. You should not rely on our past revenue trends as any indication of future trends or operating results. The price of our common stock likely will fall in the event our operating results do not meet the expectations of analysts and investors. Comparisons of our quarterly operating results are an unreliable indication of our future performance because they are likely to vary significantly based on many factors, including: • the demand for and acceptance of our Pillar System to treat mild to moderate OSA and snoring by patients, and by physicians or other healthcare providers who treat sleep breathing disorders; • the success of alternative therapies and surgical procedures to treat individuals suffering from sleep disordered breathing, and the possible future introduction of new products and treatments for sleep disordered breathing; • our ability to maintain current pricing for our Pillar System; • the success of our direct sales force in the United States and our independent distributors internationally; • the successful completion of current and future clinical studies, the presentation and publication of positive outcomes data from these clinical studies and the increased adoption of the Pillar Procedure by physicians as a result of this clinical study data; • actions relating to ongoing FDA and European Union, or EU, compliance; • the size and timing of Pillar System orders from physicians and independent distributors; • our ability in the future to obtain reimbursement for the Pillar Procedure to treat mild to moderate OSA from third-party healthcare insurers; • the willingness of patients to pay out-of-pocket for the Pillar Procedure for the treatment of snoring and, in the absence of reimbursement from third-party healthcare insurers, for the treatment of mild to moderate OSA; • unanticipated delays in the development and introduction of our future products and/or an inability to control costs; 20 Table of Contents • seasonal fluctuations in revenue due to the elective nature of all elective sleep disordered breathing treatments, including the Pillar Procedure; and • general economic conditions as well as those specific to our customers and markets. We expect to derive substantially all of our future sales from a single product. Currently, our only product is our Pillar System. We expect that our Pillar System will account for substantially all of our sales during 2008. Because the Pillar Procedure is different from current surgical and non-surgical treatments for mild to moderate OSA and snoring, we cannot assure you that physicians or other healthcare providers will perform the Pillar Procedure and demand for our Pillar System may decline or may not increase as quickly as we expect. Also, we cannot assure you that the Pillar Procedure will compete effectively as a treatment alternative to other more well-known and well-established therapies, such as CPAP, or other more frequently performed palatal surgical procedures. Since our Pillar System currently is our only product, decreased or lower than expected sales would cause us to lose all or substantially all of our revenue. Further clinical studies of our Pillar System may adversely impact our ability to generate revenue if the data from these studies do not demonstrate that our Pillar System is clinically effective for currently specified or expanded indications or if they are not completed in a timely manner. We have conducted, and continue to conduct, a number of clinical studies of the use of our Pillar System to treat patients suffering from mild to moderate OSA and snoring, including prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled studies, as well as clinical studies that are structured to obtain clearance from the FDA and the EU for expanded clinical indications of use for our Pillar System. We cannot assure you that these clinical studies will demonstrate that our Pillar System provides long-term clinical effectiveness for individuals suffering from mild to moderate OSA or snoring, nor can we assure you that the use of our Pillar System will prove to be safe and effective in clinical studies under United States or international regulatory guidelines for any expanded indications. Additional clinical studies of our Pillar System may identify significant clinical, technical or other obstacles that will have to be overcome prior to obtaining clearance from the applicable regulatory bodies to market our Pillar System for such expanded indications. If further studies of our Pillar System indicate that the Pillar Procedure is not a safe and effective treatment of mild to moderate OSA or snoring, our ability to market our Pillar System, and to generate substantial revenue from additional sales of our Pillar System, may be materially limited. Individuals selected to participate in these further clinical studies must meet certain anatomical, physiological and other criteria in order to participate in these studies. We cannot assure you that an adequate number of individuals can be enrolled in clinical studies on a timely basis. Further, we cannot assure you that the clinical studies will be completed as planned. A delay in the analysis and publication of the positive outcomes data from these clinical studies, or the presentation or publication of negative outcomes data from these clinical studies, including data related to approval of our Pillar System for expanded indications, may materially impact our ability to increase revenues through sales and negatively impact our stock price. Our business and results of operations may depend upon the ability of healthcare providers to achieve adequate levels of third-party reimbursement. Generally, patients pay for the Pillar Procedure entirely out-of-pocket, whether the patient is being treated for OSA or snoring. Third-party healthcare insurers typically consider any snoring treatment to be an elective cosmetic procedure, and do not reimburse the costs for such procedures. We believe that all treatments for snoring, including the Pillar Procedure, will continue to be considered elective procedures, and therefore, procedures for which patients will pay out-of-pocket. Our ability to generate revenue from additional sales of our Pillar System for the treatment of snoring may be materially limited by the fact that it is unlikely that it will ever be covered by a third-party healthcare insurer. The cost of treatments for OSA, such as CPAP, and most surgical procedures generally are reimbursed by third-party healthcare insurers. The Pillar Procedure is currently reimbursed for the treatment of OSA on a 21 Table of Contents very limited basis, and may in the future lose the reimbursement coverage that currently is available and/or fail to qualify for any additional reimbursement for the treatment of OSA. Our ability to generate revenue from additional sales of our Pillar System for the treatment of OSA may be materially limited by the extent to which reimbursement of the Pillar Procedure for the treatment of mild to moderate OSA is available in the future. In addition, third-party healthcare insurers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and procedures. In the event that we are successful in our efforts to obtain reimbursement for the Pillar Procedure, any changes in this reimbursement system could materially affect our ability to continue to grow our business. Reimbursement and healthcare payment systems in international markets vary significantly by country and reimbursement for the Pillar Procedure may not be available at all under either government or private reimbursement systems. If we are unable to achieve reimbursement approvals in international markets, it could have a negative impact on market acceptance of our Pillar System and potential revenue growth in the markets in which these approvals are sought. Our products and manufacturing activities are subject to extensive governmental regulation that could prevent us from selling our Pillar System or introducing new and/or improved products in the United States or internationally. Our products and manufacturing activities are subject to extensive regulation by a number of governmental agencies, including the FDA, the European Union, or the EU, and comparable international regulatory bodies. We are required to: • obtain clearance from the FDA, the EU and certain international regulatory bodies before we can market and sell our products; • satisfy all content requirements for the labeling, sales and promotional materials associated with our Pillar System and the Pillar Procedure; and • undergo rigorous inspections of our facilities, manufacturing and quality control processes, records and documentation. Compliance with the rules and regulations of these various regulatory bodies may delay or prevent us from introducing any new models of our Pillar System or other new products. In addition, government regulations may be adopted that could prevent, delay, modify or rescind regulatory clearance or approval of our products. We are required to demonstrate compliance with the FDA’s and EU’s quality system regulations. The FDA and the EU enforce their quality system regulations through pre-approval and periodic post-approval inspections by representatives from the FDA and the designated notified body for the EU, respectively. These regulations relate to product testing, vendor qualification, design control and quality assurance, as well as the maintenance of records and documentation. If we fail to conform to these regulations, the FDA or the EU may take actions that could seriously harm our business. These actions include sanctions, including temporary or permanent suspension of our operations, product recalls and marketing restrictions. A recall or other regulatory action could substantially increase our costs, damage our reputation and materially affect our operating results. Our products are currently not recommended by most pulmonologists, who currently are integral to the diagnosis and treatment of sleep breathing disorders. The majority of patients being treated today for OSA, domestically and internationally, are initially referred for sleep studies by their primary care physicians. In the U.S., most sleep studies are performed at sleep centers, which primarily are staffed by pulmonologists, neurologists and psychologists (collectively, “sleep medicine physicians”), who typically administer a polysomnography, or overnight sleep study, to diagnose the presence and severity of OSA. If an individual is diagnosed with OSA, the sleep medicine physicians typically prescribe CPAP as the therapy of choice. Sleep medicine physicians who staff sleep centers, generally, do not endorse palatal surgical procedures to their patients for the treatment of OSA or snoring, often citing uncertainty in clinical outcomes, among other factors. Our domestic sales organization 22 Table of Contents has recently begun to call on a limited number of sleep centers to begin establishing a referral pathway for use of our Pillar System as a treatment option for the palatal component of snoring and OSA for those patients who are unable or unwilling to comply with their CPAP therapy. We cannot predict the extent to which sleep medicine physicians will, in the future, endorse or recommend the Pillar Procedure to their patients who suffer from chronic snoring or mild to moderate OSA even for those patients who are unwilling or unable to comply with CPAP therapy. In addition, in March of 2008, CMS issued a national coverage determination for the reimbursement of certain ambulatory or home-based sleep studies which will not require patients to undergo an attended overnight sleep study at a sleep center. We cannot predict how the use of home sleep studies will affect the historical referral and treatment patterns involving referring physicians or sleep physicians, or how it will affect, in the future, the endorsement or recommendation of the Pillar Procedure to patients who suffer from chronic snoring or mild to moderate OSA. We face significant competition in the market for treating sleep breathing disorders. The market for treating sleep disordered breathing is highly competitive and the Pillar Procedure must compete with more established products, treatments and surgical procedures, which may limit our growth and negatively affect our business. Many of our competitors have an established presence in the field of treating sleep disordered breathing and have established relationships with sleep medicine physicians, sleep clinics, ENTs and sleep dentists, which play a significant role in determining which product, treatment or procedure is recommended to the patient. We believe certain of our competitors are attempting to develop innovative approaches and new products for diagnosing and treating OSA and other sleep disordered breathing conditions. We cannot predict the extent to which ENTs, oral maxillofacial surgeons, primary care physicians, sleep medicine physicians or sleep dentists would or will recommend our Pillar System over new or other established devices, treatments or procedures. In addition, we have limited resources with which to market, develop and sell our Pillar System. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do, including larger research and development staffs who have more experience and capability in conducting research and development activities, testing products in clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and manufacturing, marketing, selling and distributing products. Some of our competitors may achieve patent protection, regulatory approval or product commercialization more quickly than we do, which may decrease our ability to compete. If we are unable to be competitive in the market for sleep disordered breathing, our revenues will decline, negatively affecting our business. Our Pillar System may become obsolete if we are unable to anticipate and adapt to rapidly changing technology. The medical device industry is subject to rapid technological innovation and, consequently, the life cycle of any particular product can be short. Alternative products, procedures or other discoveries and developments to treat OSA and snoring may render our Pillar System obsolete. Furthermore, the greater financial and other resources of many of our competitors may permit them to respond more rapidly than we can to technological advances. If we fail to develop new technologies, products or procedures to upgrade or improve our existing Pillar System to respond to a changing market before our competitors are able to do so our ability to market our products and generate substantial revenues may be limited. Our international sales are subject to a number of risks that could seriously harm our ability to successfully commercialize our Pillar System in international markets. Our international sales are subject to several risks, including: • the ability of our independent distributors to market and sell our Pillar System and train physicians or other healthcare providers to perform the Pillar Procedure; • the ability of our independent distributors to sell the quantity of Pillar Systems they have committed to purchase from us in their respective distribution agreements; 23 Table of Contents • our ability to identify new reputable and qualified independent third-party distributors in international markets where we do not currently have distributors; • the impact of recessions in economies outside the United States; • greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs or other trade barriers; • weaker intellectual property rights protection in some countries; • potentially adverse tax consequences; and • political and economic instability. The occurrence of any of these events could seriously harm our future international sales and our ability to successfully commercialize our products in international markets, thereby limiting our growth and revenues. The failure of our largest U.S. customer or international third-party distributors to pay for their purchases of Pillar Systems on a timely basis could reduce our future net sales and negatively impact our liquidity. Our largest customer accounted for 23%, or $863,000, and 12%, or $563,000, of our domestic net sales in 2007 and 2006, respectively. If the customer discontinues selling our Pillar System or reduces its future purchases of Pillar Systems, our future revenues could be materially reduced. We have negotiated a monthly payment plan for $198,000 of past due accounts receivable with our largest domestic customer and require payment be mailed to us at the time of shipment for all future shipments until the past due balance is paid. We have not established a specific reserve for any estimated losses related to this customer. Similarly, our international distributors must continue to increase the number of physicians performing the Pillar Procedure in their respective territories, as well as expanding the number of Pillar Procedures performed by these physicians. To the extent one or more of our large U.S. physician customers or international distributors fails to pay us for Pillar Systems on a timely basis or at all, we may be required to discontinue selling to these organizations and find new customers and/or replacement distributors, which could reduce our future revenues and negatively impact our liquidity. We depend on our patents and proprietary technology, which we may not be able to protect. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for the Pillar Procedure and our Pillar System and its various components and processes. Our success further depends on our ability to obtain and maintain trademark protection for our name and mark, to preserve our trade secrets and know-how and to operate without infringing the intellectual property rights of others. We currently have issued or pending patents in several countries, including in the United States, Germany, Great Britain, Norway, Hong Kong, Singapore, Canada, China, the EU, Japan, South Korea, Australia, Indonesia, Malaysia and Taiwan, as well as pending Patent Cooperation Treaty applications. We cannot assure you that any of our pending or future patent applications will result in issued patents, that any current or future patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, that the scope of any of our patents will exclude competitors or that the patent rights granted to us will provide us any competitive advantage. We may discover that our technology infringes patents or other rights owned by others, and we cannot be certain that we were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our issued patents and our pending patent applications, or that we were the first to file patent applications for such inventions. In addition, we cannot assure you that our competitors will not seek to apply for and obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our products either in the United States or in international markets. Further, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In addition to patents, we rely on trademarks to protect the recognition of our company and product in the marketplace. We have trademark registrations for our name and mark principally in the United States, as well as registrations or pending applications in China, the EU, Indonesia and Singapore, and accordingly may 24 Table of Contents not have protection for our name and mark in other jurisdictions. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and proprietary knowledge that we seek to protect, in part, through confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants and others. We cannot assure you that our proprietary information will not be shared, that our confidentiality agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known to or independently developed by competitors. We may face intellectual property infringement claims that would be costly to resolve. There has been substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device industry and our competitors and others may initiate intellectual property litigation as a means of competition. Intellectual property litigation is complex and expensive and outcomes are difficult to predict. We cannot assure you that we will not become subject to patent infringement claims, litigation or interference proceedings, to determine the priority of inventions. Litigation or regulatory proceedings also may be necessary to enforce our patent or other intellectual property rights. We may not always have the financial resources to assert patent infringement suits or to defend ourselves from claims. An adverse result in any litigation could subject us to liabilities or require us to seek licenses from or pay royalties to others that may be substantial. Furthermore, we cannot predict the extent to which the necessary licenses would be available to us on satisfactory terms, if at all. We may face product liability claims that could result in costly litigation and significant liabilities. The manufacture and sale of medical products entail significant risk of product liability claims. The medical device industry, in general, has been subject to significant medical malpractice litigation. Any product liability claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, reduced sales, cause us to incur significant liabilities and divert our management’s time, attention and resources. Because of our limited operating history and lack of experience with these claims, we cannot be sure that our product liability insurance coverage is adequate or that it will continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. We depend on a few suppliers for key components, making us vulnerable to supply shortages and price fluctuation. We purchase components for our Pillar System from a variety of vendors on a purchase order basis; we have no long-term supply contracts with any of our vendors. While it is our goal to have multiple sources to procure certain key components, in some cases it is not economically practical or feasible to do so. To mitigate this risk, we maintain an awareness of alternate supply sources that could provide our currently single-sourced components with minimal or no modification to the current version of our Pillar System, practice supply chain management, maintain safety stocks of critical components and have arrangements with our key vendors to manage the availability of critical components. Despite these efforts, if our vendors are unable to provide us with an adequate supply of components in a timely manner or if we are unable to locate qualified alternate vendors for components at a reasonable cost, the cost of our products would increase, the availability of our products to our customers would decrease and our ability to generate revenues could be materially limited. Our sales and marketing efforts may not be successful. We currently market and sell our Pillar System to ENTs and to a limited number of other healthcare professionals. The commercial success of our Pillar System ultimately depends upon a number of factors, including the number of physicians and healthcare professionals (collectively “implanting physicians”) who perform the Pillar Procedure, the number of Pillar Procedures performed by these physicians, the number of patients who become aware of the Pillar Procedure through self-referral or referrals by their primary care physicians, healthcare providers or sleep center physicians, the number of patients who elect to undergo the Pillar Procedure and the number of patients who, having successfully undergone the Pillar Procedure, endorse and refer the Pillar Procedure to other potential patients. The Pillar Procedure may not gain significant increased market acceptance among implanting physicians, healthcare providers, patients, third-party healthcare insurers and managed care providers. Primary care physicians may elect to refer individuals suffering 25 Table of Contents from sleep disordered breathing to sleep medicine physicians or sleep dentists who treat sleep disordered breathing rather than to implanting physicians and these physicians may not recommend the Pillar Procedure to patients for any number of reasons, including knowledge of the safety and clinical efficacy of the Pillar Procedure, the availability of alternative procedures and treatment options or inadequate levels of reimbursement. In addition, while positive patient experiences can be a significant driver of future sales, it is impossible to influence the manner in which this information is transmitted and received, the choices potential patients may make and the recommendations that treating physicians make to their patients. We have limited experience in marketing and selling our Pillar System through a direct sales organization in the United States and through third-party distributors internationally. In the fourth quarter of 2006, we initiated a restructuring of our sales organization and the implementation of sales and marketing programs designed to support a new integrated consultative sales approach that continued throughout 2007. Additionally, we decided to focus on our higher margin U.S. business and to significantly decrease the near-term investment in our international business. As a result of implementing these new sales and marketing strategies, we experienced substantial turnover in our United States sales organization during 2007 and we may not be able to maintain a suitable sales force in the United States or suitable number of third-party distributors outside the United States, or enter into or maintain satisfactory marketing and distribution arrangements with others. Our marketing and sales efforts may not be successful in increasing awareness and sales of our Pillar System. All of our operations are conducted at a single location; therefore, any disruption at our existing facility could substantially affect our business. We manufacture our Pillar System at one facility using certain specialized equipment. Although we have contingency plans in effect for certain natural disasters, as well as other unforeseen events that could damage our facility or equipment, any such events could materially interrupt our manufacturing operations. In the event of such an occurrence, we have business interruption insurance to cover lost revenues and profits. However, such insurance would not compensate us for the loss of opportunity and potential adverse impact on relations with existing customers created by an inability to produce our products. We depend on certain key personnel. If we are unable to attract, train and retain highly-skilled technical, managerial, product development, sales and marketing personnel, we may be at a competitive disadvantage and unable to develop new products or increase revenue. The failure to attract, train, retain and effectively manage employees could negatively impact our research and development, sales and marketing and reimbursement efforts. In particular, the loss of sales personnel could lead to lost sales opportunities as it takes several months to hire and train replacement sales personnel. Uncertainty created by turnover of key employees could adversely affect our business. We incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management devotes substantial time to new public company compliance requirements. We incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company prior to our IPO in May 2006. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, together with new rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and NASDAQ, has imposed various additional requirements on public companies, including requiring certain corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel have to devote a substantial amount of time to meet these additional compliance requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and made some activities more time-consuming and costly. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, commencing in 2007, we were required to perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Commencing in 2008, we will be required to perform the same assessment to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on 26 Table of Contents the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 requires that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 on a consistent basis, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by NASDAQ, the SEC or other regulatory authorities. Our stock price may be volatile and a stockholder’s investment may decline in value. We cannot predict the extent to which investors’ interests will lead to an active trading market for our common stock or whether the market price of our common stock will be volatile from period to period. The market for medical device stocks has been extremely volatile. The following factors, most of which are outside of our control, could cause such volatility in the market price of our common stock: • variations in our quarterly operating results; • cash balances and available cash resources and the potential reduction in the scope of our operations to preserve our cash balances • departure of key personnel; • changes in governmental regulations and standards affecting the medical device industry and our products; • decreases in financial estimates, or negative commentary about us or the medical device industry by equity research analysts; • sales of common stock or other securities by us in the future; • licensing of certain of our intellectual property; • decreases in market valuations of medical device companies; and • fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes. In the past, securities class action litigation often has been initiated against a company following a period of volatility in the market price of the company’s securities. If class action litigation is initiated against us, we will incur substantial costs and our management’s attention will be diverted from our operations. All of these factors could cause the market price of our stock to decline, and you may lose some or all of your investment. Future sales of our common stock by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline. If our existing stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. The perception in the public market that our stockholders might sell shares of common stock could also depress the market price of our common stock. A decline in the price of shares of our common stock might impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other equity securities, and may cause you to lose part or all of your investment. Our organizational documents and Delaware law make a takeover of our company more difficult, which may prevent certain changes in control and limit the market price of our common stock. Our charter and bylaws and Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a takeover of our company. These provisions might discourage, delay or prevent a change in the control of our company or a change in our management. These provisions also could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. The existence of these provisions could limit the price that investors 27 Table of Contents might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Some provisions in our charter and bylaws may deter third parties from acquiring us, which may limit the market price of our common stock Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 