ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our profitability, like that of most financial institutions, depends substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on our interest-bearing liabilities. We also are subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and investment securities. Increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and investment securities as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. In a decreasing interest rate environment, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and securities. In an increasing interest rate environment, we are subject to the risk that interest costs on deposits and borrowings could rise more quickly than interest income from loans and investments. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. Community Mutual’s loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of the loans, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. We therefore may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Material additions to our allowance for loan losses also would materially decrease our net income, and the charge-off of loans may cause us to increase the allowance. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. We rely on our loan quality reviews, our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors, in determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. 29 Table of Contents In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We believe that the current amount of allowance for loan losses is sufficient to absorb inherent losses in our loan portfolio. Our loan portfolio includes loans with a higher risk of loss. While the majority of Community Mutual’s loan portfolio consists of residential mortgage loans, it also originates commercial and consumer loans. Commercial and consumer loans may expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, commercial loans may also involve relatively large loan balances to individual borrowers or groups of borrowers. These loans also have greater credit risk than residential real estate for the following reasons: • Commercial Loans. Repayment is generally dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower’s business. • Consumer Loans. Consumer loans (such as personal lines of credit) may or may not be collateralized with assets that provide an adequate source of payment of the loan due to depreciation, damage, or loss. The current downturn in the real estate market, unemployment and local economy could adversely affect the value of the properties securing the loans or revenues from the borrower’s business thereby increasing the risk of non-performing loans. During the 2010 and 2009 fiscal years, the national real estate market declined compared to fiscal year 2008. This decline was also apparent in CMS Bancorp’s primary market area. The slowdown in the general housing market is evidenced by reports of reduced levels of new and existing home sales, increasing inventories of houses on the market, stagnant to declining property values and an increase in the length of time houses remain on the market. No assurances can be given that these conditions will improve or will not worsen. Low demand for real estate loans may lower our profitability. Making loans secured by real estate is our primary business and primary source of revenue. If customer demand for real estate loans decreases, our profits may decrease because our alternative investments, primarily securities, generally earn less income than real estate loans. Customer demand for loans secured by real estate could be reduced due to weaker economic conditions, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or an increase in interest rates. Changes in our asset quality could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. When we discuss “asset quality,” we generally mean the likelihood that a borrower will repay a loan, with interest, on time. We think our overall asset quality is good, and has been that way for several years. We cannot predict whether our asset quality will stay as strong as it has been because changes in the economy can impact asset quality. If our asset quality were to deteriorate, it could expose us to greater credit risk and adversely affect our financial condition. The results of our operations may be adversely affected if asset valuations cause other-than-temporary impairment charges. Community Mutual may be required to record future impairment charges on our investment securities, including the FHLB stock we are required to hold as a condition to membership in the FHLB-NY, if they suffer declines in value that are considered other-than-temporary. Numerous factors, including lack of liquidity for re-sales of certain investment securities, absence of reliable pricing information for investment securities, adverse changes in business climate, adverse actions by regulators, or unanticipated changes in the competitive environment could have a negative effect on our investment portfolio in future periods. If an impairment charge 30 Table of Contents is significant enough it could affect the ability of Community Mutual to upstream dividends to CMS Bancorp, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and ability to pay dividends to shareholders and could also negatively impact our regulatory capital ratios and result in Community Mutual not being classified as “well capitalized” for regulatory purposes. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Liquidity risks could affect operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources to accommodate our existing and future lending and investment activities could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity and severely constrain our financial flexibility. Our primary source of funding is retail deposits gathered through our network of branch offices. Our alternative funding sources include, without limitation, brokered certificates of deposit, federal funds purchased, FRB Discount Window borrowings, FHLB-NY advances and short and long-term debt. We are a community bank and our ability to maintain our reputation is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. We are a community bank, and our reputation is one of the most valuable components of our business. As such, we strive to conduct our business in a manner that enhances our reputation. This is done, in part, by recruiting, hiring and retaining employees who share our core values of being an integral part of the communities we serve, delivering superior service to our customers and caring about our customers and associates. If our reputation is negatively affected, by the actions of our employees or otherwise, our business and, therefore, our operating results may be materially adversely affected. Higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments could adversely affect our financial condition. Market developments have significantly depleted the DIF and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The FDIC is currently soliciting comments on a proposed rulemaking that changes the deposit insurance assessment base from adjusted domestic deposits to a bank’s average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. The proposal defines tangible equity as Tier 1 capital. Since the new base would be larger than the current base, the FDIC also proposed to revise the initial base assessment rate schedule by lowering assessment rates to a range between 2.5 and 9 basis points for banks in the lowest risk category, and 30 to 45 basis points for banks in the highest risk category. In connection with the proposed changes to the assessment base, the FDIC also proposed to modify or eliminate the adjustments made to an institution’s initial base assessment rate for unsecured debt, secured liabilities, and brokered deposits, and to add a new adjustment for holding unsecured debt issued by another insured depository institution. The changes, if finalized substantially as proposed, would generally take effect as of April 1, 2011 and would be reflected in the June 30, 2011 fund balance and the invoices for assessments due September 30, 2011. The impact of any final rules resulting or differing from those proposed and any additional FDIC assessments, including for the FDIC’s separate guarantee program for noninterest-bearing transaction accounts, or other regulatory changes impacting the financial services industry could negatively effect CMS Bancorp’s liquidity and financial results in future periods. 31 Table of Contents The downturn in our local economy may negatively affect our future growth possibilities by limiting funds available for deposit and our borrowers’ ability to repay their loans on a timely basis. Our current primary market area is principally located in Westchester County, New York. Our future growth opportunities depend on the growth and stability of our regional economy and our ability to expand our market area. The current economic downturn could cause significant increases in non-performing loans, which would hurt our profits. Additionally, a decrease in asset quality could require additions to our allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses, which would hurt our profits. A decline in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage loans to become inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss. We may not be able to successfully implement our future plans for growth. As a component of our business plan, we will consider expansion opportunities such as the acquisition of branches and other financial institutions, although we do not have any current understandings, agreements or arrangements for expansion by the acquisition of any branches or other financial institutions. There can be no assurance, however, that we will experience operational expansion in the near future. Significant changes in interest rates or the competition we face may make it difficult to attract the level of customer deposits needed to fund our internal growth at projected levels. Accordingly, there can also be no assurance that we will be able to adequately and profitably implement our possible future growth or that we will not have to incur additional expenditures beyond current projections to support such growth. Natural and/or man-made disasters or public health issues such as the H1N1 flu outbreak could disrupt the implementation of our short-term or long-term business strategy and could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. CMS Bancorp’s operations and lending activities conducted through Community Mutual are principally concentrated in Westchester County, New York. Accordingly, our operations and earnings are highly dependent on the centralized community and environment in which we operate. We are thus vulnerable to business interruption from any natural or man made disasters or public health issues, such as a H1N1 flu outbreak, affecting our centralized community and market area. Any such interruption could adversely affect our business and operating results. We depend on our executive officers and key personnel to continue the implementation of our long-term business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services. We believe that our growth and future success will depend in large part upon the skills of our management team. The competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry is intense, and the loss of our key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing key personnel or attract additional qualified personnel. We have an employment agreement with our President and Chief Executive Officer and change in control agreements with several other senior executive officers. The loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers and key personnel could impair our ability to continue to develop our business strategy. In particular, regulatory restrictions imposed on our ability to compensate our key executive officers could adversely impact our ability to retain key personnel. Competition in our primary market area may reduce our ability to attract and retain deposits and originate loans. We operate in a competitive market for both attracting deposits, which is our primary source of funds, and originating loans. Historically, our most direct competition for deposits has come from savings and commercial banks in Westchester County, New York and surrounding areas. Our competition for loans comes principally 32 Table of Contents from commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies and brokerage and investment banking firms. We also face additional competition from internet-based institutions, brokerage firms and insurance companies. Many of our competitors offer products and services different from us, and have substantially greater resources, name recognition and market presence than we do, which benefits them in attracting business. Larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we can and have broader customer and geographic bases to draw upon. Competition for loan originations and deposits may limit our future growth and earnings prospects. Competitors that are not depository institutions are generally not subject to the extensive regulations that apply to us. Through Community Mutual, we compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we must attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. There is a risk that we will not be able to compete successfully with these other financial institutions in our markets, and that we may have to pay higher interest rates to attract deposits or charge lower interest rates to obtain loan volume, resulting in reduced profitability. In new markets that we may enter, we will also compete against well-established community banks that have developed relationships within the community. We operate in a highly regulated environment, and changes in laws and regulations to which we are subject may adversely affect our results of operations. Community Mutual is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OTS, as its chartering authority, and by the FDIC as the insurer of its deposits up to certain limits. In addition, the OTS currently regulates and oversees CMS Bancorp. We also belong to the Federal Home Loan Bank System and, as a member of such system, we are subject to certain limited regulations promulgated by the FHLB-NY. This regulation and supervision limits the activities in which we may engage. The purpose of regulation and supervision is primarily to protect our depositors and borrowers and, in the case of FDIC regulation, the DIF. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in the exercise of their supervisory and enforcement powers. They may, among other things, impose restrictions on the operation of a banking institution, the classification of assets by such institution and such institution’s allowance for loan losses. Regulatory and law enforcement authorities also have wide discretion and extensive enforcement powers under various consumer protection and civil rights laws, including the Truth in Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act. In addition to the changes discussed herein that are mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, any change in the laws or regulations applicable to us, or in banking regulators’ supervisory policies or examination procedures, whether by the OTS, the FDIC, other state or federal regulators, or the United States Congress could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on the operations of CMS Bancorp and Community Mutual are currently unknown given that much of the details and substance of the new laws will be determined through agency rulemaking. The Dodd-Frank Act is comprehensive financial reform legislation that significantly impacts, among other things, the provision of consumer financial products and services by all financial institutions. Implementation of the many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will require new mandatory and discretionary rulemakings by numerous federal regulatory agencies over the next several years. Accordingly, the compliance burden and full impact on the operations and profitability of CMS Bancorp and Community Mutual with respect to the Dodd-Frank Act are currently unknown. Based on the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and anticipated implementing regulations, however, it is highly likely that CMS Bancorp and Community Mutual, as well as all other banks or thrifts and their holding companies will be subject to significantly increased regulation and compliance obligations. The elimination of the OTS and transfer of the OTS’s supervisory and rulemaking functions to various federal banking agencies will change the way that CMS Bancorp and Community Mutual are regulated. As a result of changes mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act to the federal supervisory and regulatory framework for savings associations and their holding companies, both CMS Bancorp and Community Mutual will be 33 Table of Contents transitioning to the jurisdiction of new primary federal regulators, which will change the way that we are regulated. Specifically, the OTS’s supervisory and rulemaking functions (except for consumer protection) relating to all federal savings associations will be transferred to the OCC, while the OTS’s supervisory and rulemaking functions relating to savings and loan holding companies and their non-depository institution subsidiaries (excluding subsidiaries of the federal savings association) will be transferred to the FRB. While the OCC and FRB are directed to implement existing OTS regulations, orders, resolutions, determinations and agreements for federal savings associations and their holding companies under the HOLA, the transition of supervisory functions from the OTS to the OCC (with respect to Community Mutual) and the FRB (with respect to CMS Bancorp), could alter the operations of CMS Bancorp and Community Mutual so as to be more closely aligned with the OCC’s and FRB’s respective supervision of national banks and bank holding companies. While the functions of the OTS pertaining to CMS Bancorp and Community Mutual will formally be transferred to the OCC and FRB in July 2011 (or else by January 2012 if a six-month extension is required), we may see changes in the way we are supervised and examined sooner, and may experience operational challenges in the course of transition to our new regulators. The new Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, or BCFP, may reshape the consumer financial laws through rulemaking and enforcement of unfair, deceptive or abusive practices, which may directly impact the business operations of financial institutions offering consumer financial products or services including Community Mutual. The BCFP has broad rulemaking authority to administer and carry out the purposes and objectives of the “Federal consumer financial laws, and to prevent evasions thereof,” with respect to all financial institutions that offer financial products and services to consumers. The BCFP is also authorized to prescribe rules applicable to any covered person or service provider identifying and prohibiting acts or practices that are “unfair, deceptive, or abusive” in connection with any transaction with a consumer for a consumer financial product or service, or the offering of a consumer financial product or service (“UDAP authority”). Given that the designated transfer date for the formal transfer of rulemaking functions from each of the various federal banking agencies in regard to the federal consumer financial laws is scheduled for July 21, 2011, the potential reach of the BCFP’s broad new rulemaking powers and UDAP authority on the operations of financial institutions offering consumer financial products or services including Community Mutual is currently unknown. Changes in the FRB’s monetary or fiscal policies could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our earnings will be affected by domestic economic conditions and the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States government and its agencies. The FRB has, and is likely to continue to have, an important impact on the operating results of depository institutions through its power to implement national monetary policy, among other things, in order to curb inflation or combat a recession. The FRB affects the levels of bank loans, investments and deposits through its control over the issuance of United States government securities, its regulation of the discount rate applicable to member banks and its influence over reserve requirements to which member banks are subject. We cannot predict the nature or impact of future changes in monetary and fiscal policies. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and, as a result, investors and depositors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, the trading price of our stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. Beginning with our annual report for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2008, we were required to include in our annual reports filed with the SEC a report from our management regarding internal control over financial reporting. As a result, we documented and evaluated our internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and SEC rules and regulations, which require an annual management report on our internal control over financial reporting, including, among other matters, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to identify 34 Table of Contents and correct any significant deficiencies in the design or operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or fail to prevent fraud, current and potential stockholders and depositors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, the trading price of our stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. Negative developments in the financial industry and the credit markets may subject us to additional regulation. As a result of ongoing challenges facing the U.S. economy, the potential exists for the promulgation of new laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry and credit markets, and the impact of new legislation and agency rulemakings in response to those developments, may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and may adversely impact our financial performance. Our charter, bylaws and certain laws contain antitakeover provisions that may prevent transactions you might favor, including a sale or merger of CMS Bancorp. Provisions of our charter and bylaws may make it more difficult for companies or persons from gaining control of us through a tender offer, business combination, proxy contest or some other method, even though you might be in favor of the transaction. These antitakeover provisions include: • limitations on voting rights of the beneficial owners of more than 10% of our common stock; • supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations and changes to some provisions of the charter and bylaws; • the election of directors to staggered terms of three years; and • provisions regarding the timing and content of stockholder proposals and nominations. Furthermore, federal law requires OTS approval prior to any direct or indirect acquisition of “control” (as defined in OTS regulations) of Community Mutual, including any acquisition of control of CMS Bancorp. The trading volume in our common stock has been low, and the sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could depress the price of our common stock and make it difficult for you to sell your shares. Our common stock is listed to trade on the Nasdaq Capital Market, but is thinly traded. As a result, you may not be able to sell your shares of common stock on short notice. Additionally, thinly traded stock can be more volatile than stock trading in an active public market. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock at one time could temporarily depress the market price of our common stock, making it difficult for you to sell your shares and impairing our ability to raise capital. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 35 Table of Contents 