RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Businesses Our end markets are subject to economic cycles. Our primary end markets in 2010 were the repair and replacement of municipal water distribution and treatment systems, non-residential construction and new water and wastewater infrastructure, which is dependent on residential construction associated with new community developments. Sustained uncertainty about these end markets could cause our distributors and our end use customers to delay purchasing, or determine not to purchase, our products. For example, our distributors and end customers may have been approaching their near-term spending decisions with caution given the uncertain economic climate. In addition, other factors, including high levels of unemployment and foreclosures, interest rate fluctuations, fuel and other energy costs, labor and healthcare costs, the state of credit markets (including mortgages, home equity loans and consumer credit), weather, natural disasters and other factors beyond our control, could adversely affect our sales, profitability and cash flows. Water and wastewater infrastructure spending construction activity may further decline. A portion of our business depends on local, state and federal spending on water and wastewater infrastructure upgrade, repair and replacement. A significant percentage of our products are ultimately used by municipalities or other governmental agencies in water transmission, distribution, collection and treatment systems. A February 2010 report of the U.S. Conference of Mayors estimates that state and local government funding generally provides 98% of the total investment in public water and wastewater systems. Funds for water infrastructure repair and replacement typically come from local taxes or water rates and the ability of state and local governments to increase taxes or water rates may be limited. In addition, state and local governments that do not budget for capital expenditures in setting tax rates and water rates may be unable to pay for water infrastructure repair and replacement if they do not have other funding sources. It is not unusual for water projects to be delayed and rescheduled for a number of reasons, including changes in project priorities and difficulties in complying with environmental and other governmental regulations. Some state and local governments have placed or may place significant restrictions on the use of water by their constituents. These water use restrictions have or may similarly lead to reduced water revenues by municipalities or other governmental agencies, which could similarly affect funding decisions for water-related projects. Economic conditions may cause states and municipalities to receive lower than anticipated revenues, which may lead to reduced or delayed funding for water infrastructure projects. Even if favorable economic conditions exist, state and local governments may choose not to address deferred infrastructure needs among competing spending priorities. As a result, our sales, profitability and cash flows could decline as a result of decreases in the number of projects undertaken by water agencies, government spending cuts, general budgetary constraints, difficulty in obtaining necessary permits or the inability of customers or end users to obtain financing. Non-residential construction activity may face continued reductions in demand. A portion of our business depends on non-residential construction, which is cyclical. Non-residential construction activity has declined significantly in 2010 and a continued reduction in non-residential construction could result in a decline in our sales, profitability and cash flows. 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements New residential construction activity may face continued reductions in demand. A portion of our business depends on new water and wastewater infrastructure spending, which in turn depends on residential construction, which is cyclical, and has historically represented a significant portion of our profitability and cash flows. Since January 2006, there have been steep declines in the construction of new homes in the United States, which has adversely affected our sales, profitability and cash flows. The disruption in the financial markets late in calendar 2008 exacerbated these declines. Independent forecasts of housing starts do not project a substantial near-term recovery in residential construction. Our residential construction related business recovery may lag any recovery in new home construction. A continued reduction in new residential construction activity or a failure of this market to recover substantially may continue to affect our sales, profitability and cash flows adversely. We depend on a small group of major distributors for a significant portion of our sales. We sell our products primarily to distributors and our success depends on these outside parties operating their businesses profitably and effectively. Their effectiveness can vary significantly from company to company and among regional groups served by the same company. Further, our distributors generally also carry competing products. We may fail to align our businesses with the most successful distributors in any market. For some of our products, we may have relationships with multiple distributors in a single market, or may use a national distributor in one market and a different national distributor in another market. Approximately 33% of our 2010 gross sales were to our 10 largest distributors, and approximately 24% of our 2010 gross sales were to our three largest distributors: HD Supply, Ferguson Enterprises, Inc. and Mainline Supply Company. In 2010, HD Supply accounted for 15% and 14% of gross sales for Mueller Co. and U.S. Pipe, respectively. While our relationships with our 10 largest distributors have been long-lasting, distributors in our industry have experienced consolidation in recent years. If such consolidation continues, our distributors could be acquired by other distributors who buy products from our competitors. Pricing pressure may also result if consolidation among distributors continues, which could lead to a decline in our sales, profitability and cash flows. The loss of any one of our major distributors in any market could also reduce our sales, profitability and cash flows. Sales of certain of our products are seasonal. Sales of some of our products, including ductile iron pipe, valves and fire hydrants are seasonal, with lower sales in our first and second quarters when weather conditions throughout most of North America tend to be cold resulting in lower levels of construction activity. In general, approximately 45% of a year’s net sales occurs in the first half of the year with 55% occurring in the second half of the year. This seasonality in demand has resulted in fluctuations in our sales and operating results. In order to satisfy demand during expected peak periods, we may incur costs associated with inventory build-up, and our projections as to future needs may not be accurate. Because many of our expenses are fixed, seasonal trends can cause reductions in our profitability and profit margins and deterioration of our financial condition during periods affected by lower production or sales activity. Our business strategy partly depends upon executing current and future cost-control measures successfully. Part of our business strategy is to enhance our profitability by realizing cost savings. We have taken steps in recent years to lower our costs by reducing staff, compensation and employee benefits and implementing general cost-control measures, and we expect to continue some of these cost-control efforts for the foreseeable future. Our total operating costs may be greater than anticipated if we do not achieve the expected savings from, or if our operating costs increase as a result of, these initiatives. Reductions in staff, compensation and benefits could 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements also adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key employees and directors. In addition, we operate with significant operating leverage. A significant portion of our expenses consists of fixed costs. As a result, we are limited in our ability to reduce costs in the short term. If we are unable to execute our current and future cost control measures successfully, our total operating costs would be greater than expected, which would adversely affect our profitability and cash flows. Our industry is very competitive and some of our products are similar to those manufactured by our competitors. The U.S. and Canadian markets for water infrastructure, flow control and piping component system products are very competitive. While there are only a few competitors for most of our offerings, many of our competitors are well-established companies with strong brand recognition. We compete on the basis of a variety of factors, including the quality and price of our products and services. Anvil’s products in particular also compete on availability and breadth of product and are sold in fragmented markets with low barriers to entry. Our ability to retain our customers in the face of competition depends on our ability to market our products and services to our customers effectively. Also, competition for ductile iron pipe sold by U.S. Pipe comes not only from ductile iron pipe produced by a concentrated number of other manufacturers, but also from pipe composed of other materials, such as PVC, HDPE, concrete, fiberglass reinforced plastic and steel. In addition to competition from U.S. companies, we face the threat of competition from companies from other countries. The intensity of competition from these companies is affected by fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar against their local currencies, by the cost to ship competitive products into North America and by the availability of trade remedies. Competition may also increase as a result of U.S. competitors shifting their operations to low-cost countries or otherwise reducing their costs. Our competitors may reduce the prices of their products or services, improve their quality, improve their functionality or enhance their marketing or sales activities. Any of these potential developments could adversely affect our sales, profitability and cash flows. The costs of our raw materials and purchased components can be volatile. Our operations require substantial amounts of raw materials or purchased components, such as scrap steel, scrap iron, sand, resin brass ingot, steel pipe and coke. The cost and availability of these materials are subject to economic forces largely beyond our control, including North American and international demand, foreign currency exchange rates, freight costs and speculation. We generally purchase raw materials at current market costs and any hedging activities are small in relation to total purchases. We may not be able to pass on the entire cost of price increases for raw materials and purchased components to our customers or offset fully the effects of these higher costs through productivity improvements. In particular, when raw material and purchased component costs increase rapidly or to significantly higher than normal levels, we may not be able to pass cost increases through to our customers on a timely basis, if at all, which would reduce our profitability and cash flows. In addition, if raw materials or purchased components were not available, that would reduce our sales, profitability and cash flows. Our competitors could operate better under such changing market conditions than we do, which would give them a cost advantage compared to us. We partially rely on the labor of individuals represented by collective bargaining agreements to produce and distribute our goods. We are subject to a risk of work stoppages and other labor relations matters because a large portion of our hourly workforce is represented by collective bargaining agreements. At September 30, 2010, approximately 69% of our hourly workforce was covered by these agreements. These employees are represented by locals from six different unions, including the Glass, Molders, Pottery, Plastics and Allied Workers International Union, which represents the largest number of our employees. If we are unable to negotiate acceptable new agreements 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements with the unions representing our employees upon expiration of existing contracts, we could experience strikes, work stoppages or other forms of labor slowdowns. Such actions could cause a significant disruption of operations at our facilities, which could have an adverse impact on us. New agreements with unions representing our employees could call for higher wages or benefits paid to union members, which would increase our operating costs. Labor costs are a significant element of the total costs involved in our manufacturing process, and an increase in the costs of labor could reduce sales, profitability and cash flows. In addition, the freight companies that deliver our products to our customers generally use truck drivers represented by collective bargaining agreements, and our businesses could be harmed if these truck drivers face work stoppages or support other work stoppages. Normal operations at our key manufacturing facilities may be interrupted. Some of our key products, including fire hydrants, valves and ductile iron pipe, are manufactured at large manufacturing facilities that depend on critical pieces of heavy equipment that cannot be economically moved to other locations. We are therefore limited in our ability to shift production between locations. The operations at our manufacturing facilities may be interrupted or impaired by various operating risks, including, but not limited to: • catastrophic events, such as fires, explosions, natural disasters or other similar occurrences; • interruptions in the delivery of raw materials or other manufacturing inputs; • adverse government regulations; • equipment breakdowns or failures; • information systems failures; • violations of our permit requirements or revocation of permits; • releases of pollutants and hazardous substances to air, soil, surface water or ground water; • shortages of equipment or spare parts; • labor disputes; and • terrorist acts. The occurrence of any of these events may impair our production capabilities and adversely affect our sales, profitability and cash flows. Some of our brass products contain lead, which may be replaced in the future. Several states restrict the use of lead in water infrastructure products. In addition, California and other state legislatures have in recent years enacted laws that impose further restrictions on products used in water transmission and otherwise. Legislation to substantially restrict lead content in water infrastructure products also has been passed by the U.S. House of Representatives and introduced in the U. S. Senate. Future legislation could further restrict the permitted amount of lead or other materials in products we sell. Complying with new restrictions could increase our manufacturing costs or influence our decisions regarding which markets to serve. Transportation costs are relatively high for most of our products. Transportation costs are an important factor in a customer’s purchasing decision. Increases in transportation costs could make our products less competitive with the same or alternative products from competitors. We typically depend on rail, barge and trucking systems to deliver our products to customers. While our customers typically arrange and pay for transportation from our factory to the point of use, disruption of these 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements transportation services because of weather-related problems, strikes, lock-outs or other events could temporarily impair our ability to supply our products to our customers, thereby resulting in lost sales, profitability and cash flows. We manage our business as a decentralized organization. We have three business segments and operate under a decentralized organizational structure. Our operations have different business practices, accounting policies, internal controls, procedures and compliance programs. We continue to communicate such policies, controls, procedures and programs and it could take time for such implementation to be complete. Further, we may need to modify existing programs and processes to increase efficiency and operating effectiveness and improve corporate visibility into our decentralized operations. We also regularly update compliance programs and processes to comply with existing laws, new interpretations of existing laws and new laws, and we may not implement those modifications effectively. It could take time for any such modifications to be implemented across our operations. During the implementation periods, our decentralized operating approach could result in inconsistent management practices and procedures, which could adversely affect our businesses. Once achieved, it may also be difficult to maintain operational consistency across our businesses. We may be unsuccessful in identifying, acquiring or integrating suitable acquisitions. A part of our growth strategy depends on expansion through acquisitions of businesses that can be integrated successfully into our existing businesses and that will provide us with complementary manufacturing capabilities, products, services, customers or end users. Any future growth through acquisitions will depend on the availability of suitable acquisition candidates at favorable prices and on satisfactory terms and conditions. In addition, if we identify a suitable acquisition candidate, our ability to complete the acquisition will depend on a variety of factors, including our ability to finance the acquisition. Our ability to finance an acquisition is subject to a number of factors, including the availability of adequate cash, cash flows from operations or acceptable financing terms and the availability of financing under our existing debt agreements. Moreover, other companies, some of which may have substantially greater financial resources, may compete with us for the right to acquire such businesses, and these companies may be able to offer better terms for an acquisition than we can offer. In addition, there may be many challenges to integrating acquired businesses into our Company, including eliminating redundant operations, facilities and systems, coordinating management and personnel, retaining key employees, managing different corporate cultures and achieving cost reductions and cross-selling opportunities. We may not be able to meet these challenges. We may not adequately prevent others from using our intellectual property. Our businesses depend on our technology and expertise, which is largely developed internally and not subject to statutory protection. We rely on a combination of patent protection, copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets protection, employee and third party confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. The measures that we take to protect our intellectual property rights may not adequately deter infringement, misappropriation or independent third-party development of our technology, and they may not prevent an unauthorized third party from obtaining or using information or intellectual property that we regard as proprietary or keep others from using brand names similar to our own. The disclosure, misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property could harm our competitive position. In addition, our actions to enforce our rights may result in substantial costs and diversion of management and other resources. We may also be subject to intellectual property infringement claims from time to time, which may result in our incurring additional expenses and diverting our resources to respond to these claims. 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We have a significant amount of debt and we may not be able to increase our borrowings. At September 30, 2010, our total debt was $692.2 million compared to total assets of $1,568.2 million and total stockholders’ equity of $405.3 million. We may have a need or desire to incur significant additional debt from time to time. The level of our debt could limit our ability to obtain additional debt financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operating activities to service all of our debt. There is a risk that our businesses will not generate sufficient cash flows from operating activities, that anticipated revenue growth and operating improvements will not be realized or that future borrowings may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may not maintain a level of liquidity from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on our debt. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce investments and capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital, restructure or refinance our debt. However, we may not be able to accomplish these actions on satisfactory terms, or at all. In addition, these actions, if accomplished, could adversely affect the operation and growth of our businesses and may not permit us to meet our debt service obligations. Certain of our debt instruments contain restrictive covenants. Our debt instruments contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in certain transactions. The indentures governing our notes restrict our ability to, among other things, borrow money or issue preferred stock, pay dividends, make certain types of investments and other restricted payments, create liens, restrict dividend payments or other payments from subsidiaries, sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies, engage in sale and leaseback transactions and enter into certain transactions with affiliates. Our asset based lending agreement also requires the maintenance of a specified financial ratio when the excess availability is below a specified level. Our ability to satisfy the financial ratio or other covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not meet those tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our debt instruments. If an event of default were not remedied timely, the holders of our applicable debt would be able to declare the debt immediately due and payable; certain events of default cannot be remedied. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our asset based lending agreement, the lenders could also terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the debt under our asset based revolving credit agreement. We have pledged all of our U.S. receivables, inventories and certain other assets as security under our asset based lending agreement. If any lender is entitled to accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay these obligations. Our ability to borrow money may be impacted by changes in our credit ratings or macroeconomic conditions. Our cost of borrowing and ability to access the capital markets are affected not only by market conditions but also by the short- and long-term debt ratings assigned to our debt by major credit rating agencies. These ratings are based, in significant part, on our performance as measured by credit metrics, such as interest coverage and leverage ratios. Our Senior Unsecured Notes and Senior Subordinated Notes are each rated by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service and both series of notes are rated below investment grade by both rating agencies. Any future borrowings will reflect the impact of these ratings, and additional reductions in our credit 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements ratings could reduce our access to credit markets, make new borrowings more expensive, subject us to more onerous terms and reduce our borrowing flexibility. Such limitations on our financing options may affect our ability to refinance existing debt or fund major acquisitions or capital-intensive internal initiatives. In addition, deteriorating economic conditions, including a recession, market disruptions, tightened credit markets and significantly wider corporate borrowing spreads, may make it more difficult or costly for us to finance significant transactions or obtain replacement financing for our existing debt. Our expenditures for postretirement benefits and pension obligations are significant and could be materially higher than we have predicted if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect. We provide a range of benefits to our current and retired employees, including pensions and postretirement healthcare. In determining our future payment obligations under the plans, we assume certain rates of return on the plan assets and growth rates of certain costs. We contributed $23.0 million, $24.0 million and $20.3 million for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, to our pension plans. At September 30, 2010, the market value of our pension plan assets was approximately $313.1 million. The Pension Protection Act of 2006 (“PPA”) generally targets U.S. plans to be fully funded by 2015. At September 30, 2010, our PPA-defined funded status was approximately 87%. Assumed discount rates, expected return on plan assets, expected compensation increases and estimated healthcare cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the pension and healthcare plans. We expect that healthcare costs will increase generally at a rate above the rate of inflation. Our actual cost growth rates could be materially higher than projected. Further, significant adverse changes in credit and capital markets could result in actual rates of return on plan assets being materially lower than projected. As a result, we may be required to increase the amount of cash contributions we make into our pension plans and other plans in the future in order to meet funding level requirements. If adverse changes in credit and capital markets are particularly significant and sustained, our overall liquidity could be materially reduced, which could force us to reduce investments and capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our debt. We are subject to the newly adopted healthcare legislation. We provide a range of benefits to our current and retired employees, including healthcare coverage. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and a reconciliation measure, the Health Care and Education Act of 2010 (collectively, the “Healthcare Reform Legislation”) were signed into law in the United States. Provisions of the Healthcare Reform Legislation become effective at various dates over the next several years and a number of additional steps are required to implement these requirements, including further guidance and clarification in the form of implementing regulations. Due to the complexity of the Healthcare Reform Legislation, the pending status of implementing regulations and lack of interpretive guidance, and gradual implementation, the higher costs resulting from the Healthcare Reform Legislation on our business are not yet fully known and may not be known for several years. We may be subject to product liability or warranty claims. We are exposed to product liability, warranty and other claims in the event that the use of our products results, or is alleged to result in, bodily injury or property damage. We could incur product liability or warranty losses in the future, along with the related expenses to defend such claims, and such losses and expenses may be material and completely independent of the value of the underlying product or service. In some cases, replacement of our products can involve significant excavation and labor costs. While we maintain product liability insurance, our product liability insurance coverage may not be adequate for liabilities that may ultimately be incurred or the coverage may not continue to be available on terms 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements acceptable to us. A successful product liability claim brought against us in excess of our available insurance coverage could require us to make significant payments or a requirement to participate in a product recall may harm our reputation. We rely on successors to Tyco to indemnify us for certain liabilities and they may become financially unable or fail to comply with the terms of the indemnity. Under the terms of the acquisition agreement relating to the August 1999 sale by Tyco of the Mueller Co. and Anvil businesses to the prior owner of these businesses, we are indemnified by Tyco for all liabilities arising in connection with the operation of these businesses prior to their sale by Tyco, including with respect to products manufactured or sold prior to the closing of that transaction. The indemnity survives forever and is not subject to any dollar limits. In the past, Tyco has made substantial payments and/or assumed defense of claims pursuant to this indemnification provision. In addition, Tyco’s indemnity does not cover product liabilities to the extent caused by our products manufactured after the date of that transaction. In June 2007, Tyco was separated into three separate publicly traded companies. Should any of Tyco’s successors become financially unable or fail to comply with the terms of the indemnity, we may be responsible for such obligations or liabilities. See “Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS” for more information about our potential product liabilities. We are subject to complex corporate governance, public disclosure and accounting requirements. We are subject to changing rules and regulations of federal and state government, as well as the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”), the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and the New York Stock Exchange, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional regulations and requirements in response to laws enacted by the U.S. Congress. For example, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations subsequently implemented by the SEC and the PCAOB imposed and may impose compliance burdens and costs on us. Also, in July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act includes significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions that require the SEC to adopt additional rules and regulations in these areas, such as say-on-pay and proxy access. Our efforts to comply with new requirements of law and regulation are likely to result in an increase in expenses and a diversion of management’s time from other business activities. Also, those laws, rules and regulations may make it more difficult and expensive for us to attract and retain key employees and members of our Board of Directors and to maintain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to maintain coverage. We may be subject to any new governmental legislation or regulation relating to carbon dioxide emissions. Certain of our manufacturing plants use significant amounts of electricity and natural gas and certain of our plants emit significant amounts of carbon dioxide. Federal and state courts and administrative agencies are considering the scope and scale of carbon dioxide emission regulation under various laws pertaining to the environment, energy use and development and greenhouse gas emissions. For example the EPA has begun promulgating regulations governing carbon emissions. Additionally, the U.S. House of Representatives has passed legislation that would regulate carbon dioxide emissions through a cap-and-trade system, under which emitters would be required to buy allowances to offset emissions of carbon dioxide. Similar legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Senate. In addition, several states are considering various carbon dioxide registration and reduction programs. Final carbon dioxide legislation or regulation could increase the price of the electricity we purchase, increase costs for our use of natural gas, restrict access to or the use of natural gas or require us to purchase allowances to offset our own emissions. Further, federal, state and local governments may also pass laws mandating the use of alternative energy sources, such as wind and solar, which may increase the cost of energy used in our operations. The final details and scope of these legislative and regulatory measures are unclear, and their potential to increase our costs remains uncertain. 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain. The EPA has found that global climate change could increase the severity and possibly the frequency of severe weather patterns, such as hurricanes. Although the financial impact of these potential changes is not reasonably estimable at this time, our operations in certain locations and those of our customers and suppliers could potentially be adversely affected. These effects could adversely affect our financial performance. We are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. We are subject to various laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety and must incur capital and other expenditures to comply with these requirements. Failure to comply with any environmental, health or safety requirements could result in the assessment of damages, the imposition of penalties, suspension of production, changes to equipment or processes or a cessation of operations at our facilities. Because these laws are complex, subject to change and may be applied retroactively, these requirements, in particular as they change in the future, may impair our sales, profitability and cash flows. In addition, we incurred costs to comply with the National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants issued by the EPA for iron and steel foundries and for our foundries’ painting operations. We may be required to conduct investigations and perform remedial activities that could require us to incur material additional costs in the future. Our operations involve the use of hazardous substances and the disposal of hazardous wastes. We may incur additional costs to manage these substances and wastes, and we may be subject to claims for damage for personal injury, property damage or damage to natural resources. U.S. Pipe has been identified as a potentially responsible party liable under federal environmental laws for a portion of the cleanup costs with regard to two sites and is currently subject to an administrative consent order requiring certain monitoring and cleanup with regard to a property in New Jersey. Such cleanup costs could be substantial and could adversely affect our profitability and cash flows in any given reporting period. For more information about our environmental compliance and potential environmental liabilities, see “Item 1. BUSINESS—Environmental Matters.” Risks Relating to Our Relationship with Walter Energy We may have substantial additional liability for federal income tax allegedly owed by Walter Energy. Each member of a consolidated group for federal income tax purposes is severally liable for the federal income tax liability of each other member of the consolidated group for any year in which it is a member of the group at any time during such year. Each member of the Walter Energy consolidated group, which included us (including our subsidiaries) through December 14, 2006, is also jointly and severally liable for pension and benefit funding and termination liabilities of other group members, as well as certain benefit plan taxes. Accordingly, we could be liable under such provisions in the event any such liability is incurred, and not discharged, by any other member of the Walter Energy consolidated group for any period during which we were included in the Walter Energy consolidated group. A dispute exists with regard to federal income taxes for years 1980 to 1994 and 1999 to 2001 allegedly owed by the Walter Energy consolidated group, which included U.S. Pipe during these periods. As a matter of law, we are jointly and severally liable for any final tax determination, which means that in the event Walter Energy is unable to pay any amounts owed, we would be liable. The tax allocation agreement between us and Walter Energy allocates to us certain tax risks associated with the Spin-off. Walter Energy effectively controlled all of our tax decisions for periods during which we were a member of the Walter Energy consolidated federal income tax group and certain combined, consolidated or unitary state and 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements local income tax groups. Under the terms of the income tax allocation agreement between us and Walter Energy dated May 26, 2006, we generally compute our tax liability on a stand-alone basis, but Walter Energy has sole authority to respond to and conduct all tax proceedings (including tax audits) relating to our federal income and combined state returns, to file all such returns on our behalf and to determine the amount of our liability to (or entitlement to payment from) Walter Energy for such periods. This arrangement may result in conflicts of interests between us and Walter Energy. In addition, the tax allocation agreement provides that if the Spin-off is determined not to be tax-free pursuant to Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, we generally will be responsible for any taxes incurred by Walter Energy or its shareholders if such taxes result from certain of our actions or omissions and for a percentage of any such taxes that are not a result of our actions or omissions or Walter Energy’s actions or omissions or taxes based on our market value relative to Walter Energy’s market value. Additionally, to the extent that Walter Energy was unable to pay taxes, if any, attributable to the Spin-off and for which it is responsible under our tax allocation agreement, we could be liable for those taxes as a result of being a member of the Walter Energy consolidated group for the year in which the Spin-off occurred. Walter Energy’s income tax returns for the year in which the Spin-off occurred are still open for federal examination. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements 