Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks included here are not exhaustive or exclusive. Other sections of this Annual Report may include additional factors which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial performance. We operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. We have a limited history of operations, have not generated any revenue from operations and have not commenced commercial production of our PV modules. We have a limited operating history and have not generated any revenue from operations. We have not completed testing and qualification of our 1.5 MW production line, and until testing and qualification of our 1.5 MW production line is complete, we will not be in a position to commence commercial production of our PV modules. Further, our plans call for expansion of production capacity, but we do not expect to achieve another approximately 30 MW of rated capacity until the end of 2009. Our ability to achieve our business, commercialization and expansion objectives will depend on a number of factors, including whether: •we successfully qualify our 1.5 MW production line within our planned time frame; •our products are successfully and timely certified for use in our target markets; •we successfully qualify production tools to achieve the efficiencies and yields necessary to reach our cost targets as we expand our rated capacity; •the cost models on which we intend to rely for the manufacture of our PV modules prove accurate; •we raise sufficient capital to expand our total rated capacity to approximately 110 MW, and whether such capacity will enable us to reach the economies of scale we believe necessary to achieve profitability; •we receive timely delivery of production tools from our equipment suppliers; •we effectively manage the planned expansion of our operations; and •we successfully develop and maintain strategic relationships with key partners, including OEMs, system integrators and distributors, who deal directly with end-users in our target markets. Each of these factors is critical to our success, and accomplishing each of these tasks may take longer or cost more than expected, or may never be accomplished. It also is likely that problems that we cannot now anticipate will arise and require solution by us. If we do not, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We have to date incurred net losses and may be unable to generate sufficient sales in the future to become profitable. We incurred net losses of $6.5 million in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 and reported an accumulated deficit of $11.9 million as of December 31, 2007. We expect to incur net losses for the foreseeable future. Our ability to achieve profitability depends on a number of factors, including the growth rate of the solar energy industry, market acceptance of thin-film and other PV modules, the competitiveness of our PV modules and our ability to increase production volumes. If we are unable to generate sufficient revenue to achieve profitability and positive cash flows, we might be unable to satisfy our commitments and may have to discontinue operations. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in establishing ourselves as a profitable enterprise. 13 Our business is based on a new and unproven technology, and if our PV modules or processes fail to achieve the performance and cost metrics that we expect, then we may be unable to develop demand for our PV modules and generate sufficient revenue to support our operations. Our CIGS on flexible plastic substrate technology is a new and unproven technology in commercial scale production. Our business plan and strategies assume that we will be able to achieve certain milestones and metrics in terms of throughput, uniformity of cell efficiencies, yield, encapsulation, packaging, cost and other production parameters. We cannot assure you that all of our technology will prove to be commercially viable in accordance with our plan and strategies. Further, we may experience operational problems with such technology after its commercial introduction that could delay or defeat the ability of such technology to generate revenue or operating profits. If we are unable to achieve our targets on time and within our planned budget, then we may not be able to develop adequate demand for our PV modules, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We currently do not have certified PV modules and have recorded no sales of such products; further, we expect that significant PV module sales will not occur for some time. We have recorded no sales of PV modules and have no contracts for such sales. Because we do not plan to commence commercial production until the second quarter of 2008, and because we believe that our PV modules will need to be certified in order for them to be commercially viable, it will be several months before we record significant PV module sales, if ever. We expect that it will be some time before we can determine whether our expectations relating to our products and their target markets are justified. Further, because we will be required to invest substantial resources in pursuing our target markets in advance of any significant revenue stream that may result from such investments, an unanticipated or longer than expected delay of revenue ramp-up could put a strain on our resources, adversely affecting our business, results of operation and financial condition, and could require us to seek additional capital. See "Risk Factors—Our planned expansion to approximately 110 MW of rated capacity will require additional capital which we may not be able to obtain on favorable terms, if at all, or without dilution to our stockholders." A failure or unanticipated delay in securing any necessary or desired certification for our PV modules from government or regulatory organizations could impair sales of our PV modules and materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In order for our PV modules to be commercially sold for use in our target markets, they must first be certified by certain government or regulatory organizations, such as UL, IEC and TÜV. We believe that in some cases, these certifications would be sought by our customers and, in other cases, by us. A failure or unanticipated delay in securing any necessary or desired certification for our PV modules could impair sales of our PV modules and materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Failure to receive timely delivery of production tools from our equipment suppliers could delay our planned expansion of manufacturing capacity and materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our planned expansion of manufacturing capacity and commercialization timeline depend on the timely delivery of production tools from our equipment suppliers. The relationships with our chosen equipment suppliers are relatively new, and at this point in time we cannot be certain that the equipment orders we place with these suppliers will be fulfilled as we expect or in a timely manner. If delivery of production tools is not made on schedule or at all, then we might be unable to carry out our commercialization and manufacturing expansion plans, produce PV modules in the volumes and at the times that we expect or generate sufficient revenue from operations, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 14 Failure to expand our manufacturing capacity successfully would adversely impact our ability to sell PV modules into our target markets and would materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our growth plan calls for the installation and operation of additional production tools to achieve the manufacturing capacities and cost efficiencies necessary to compete in our target markets. The successful completion and operation of future production tools will require substantial engineering resources and is subject to significant risks, including risks of cost overruns and delays, risks that we may not be able to successfully acquire, install, combine or operate the equipment needed, or the possibility that one or more of the production tools may never be qualified or become operational. Furthermore, we may never be able to operate our production processes in high volume, make planned process and equipment improvements, attain projected manufacturing yields or desired annual capacity, obtain timely delivery of production tools, obtain on reasonable terms adequate facilities in which to install the production tools, or hire and train the additional employees and management needed to operate and maintain the production tools. Failure to meet these objectives on time and within our planned budget could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Failure to consummate strategic relationships with key partners in the BIPV and EIPV markets, or with distributors in the commodity solar panel market, could adversely affect our projected sales, growth and revenues. We intend to sell thin-film PV modules for use in BIPV and EIPV products, such as roofing shingles, siding and facades, metal and composite panels, roofing membranes, electronic packages, casings, battery packs and portable power systems. We also intend to sell commodity modules for use in the commodity solar panel market. Our marketing and distribution strategy is to form strategic relationships with BIPV and EIPV suppliers to provide a foothold in these target markets. We also intend to form strategic relationships with distributors in the commodity solar panel market. If we are unable to successfully establish working relationships with such market participants, or if due to cost, technical or other factors, our PV modules prove unsuitable for use in such applications, our projected revenues and operating results could be adversely affected. Further, to the extent that we are able to establish strategic relationships with key partners and distributors, those relationships may be on a non-exclusive basis (for example, our strategic relationship with Norsk Hydro is non-exclusive), which means that our partners are not obligated to use us as their sole source of PV modules, and may instead choose to use the products of our competitors. Any such reduction in demand for our PV modules may have a material adverse effect on our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Our planned expansion to approximately 110 MW of rated capacity will require additional capital which we may not be able to obtain on favorable terms, if at all, or without dilution to our stockholders. Our planned expansion to approximately 110 MW of total rated capacity will require additional capital. We currently are unable to determine what forms of financing, if any, will be available to us. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders could be significantly diluted, and these newly issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. If we raise additional funds through debt financing, which may involve restrictive covenants, our ability to operate our business may be restricted. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, if and when needed, our ability to fund our operations, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop or enhance our products, expand capacity to approximately 110 MW of total rated capacity, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures could be significantly limited, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 15 We may be unable to manage the expansion of our operations effectively. We will need to significantly expand our operations in order to reduce the incremental manufacturing costs of our PV modules, secure contracts of commercially material amounts with reputable customers and capture a meaningful share of our target markets. To manage the rapid expansion of our operations, we will be required to improve our operational and financial systems, procedures and controls and expand, train and manage our growing employee base. Our management team will also be required to maintain and cultivate our relationships with customers, suppliers and other third parties and attract new customers and suppliers. In addition, our current and planned operations, personnel, facility size and configuration, systems and internal procedures and controls might be inadequate or insufficient to support our future growth. If we cannot manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to take advantage of market opportunities, execute our business strategies or respond to competitive pressures, resulting in a material and adverse effect to our business, results of operations and financial condition. As a public company we are subject to complex legal and accounting requirements that require us to incur substantial expenses, and our financial controls and procedures may not be sufficient to ensure timely and reliable reporting of financial information, which, as a public company, could materially harm our stock price and listing on the Nasdaq Global Market. As a public company, we are subject to numerous legal and accounting requirements that do not apply to private companies. The cost of compliance with many of these requirements is substantial, not only in absolute terms but, more importantly, in relation to the overall scope of the operations of a small company. Our relative inexperience with these requirements may increase the cost of compliance and may also increase the risk that we will fail to comply. Failure to comply with these requirements can have numerous adverse consequences including, but not limited to, our inability to file required periodic reports on a timely basis, loss of market confidence, delisting of our securities and/or governmental or private actions against us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with all of these requirements or that the cost of such compliance will not prove to be a substantial competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis our privately held and larger public competitors. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley) requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley. We currently expect that we will be required to comply with all the requirements of Section 404 beginning with our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2008. Our compliance with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. The effectiveness of our controls and procedures may in the future be limited by a variety of factors, including: •faulty human judgment and simple errors, omissions or mistakes; •fraudulent action of an individual or collusion of two or more people; •inappropriate management override of procedures; and •the possibility that any enhancements to controls and procedures may still not be adequate to assure timely and accurate financial information. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, we may be subject to Nasdaq delisting, investigations by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and civil or criminal sanctions. 16 Our ability to successfully implement our business plan and comply with Section 404 requires us to be able to prepare timely and accurate financial statements. We expect that we will need to continue to improve existing, and implement new operational, financial and accounting systems, procedures and controls to manage our business effectively. Any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls may cause our operations to suffer, and we may be unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective and to obtain an unqualified report on internal controls from our auditors as required under Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley. If we are unable to complete the required Section 404 assessment as to the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, if we fail to maintain or implement adequate controls, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the date of our first Form 10-K for which compliance is required, our ability to obtain additional financing could be impaired. In addition, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our internal control over financial reporting and in the accuracy of our periodic reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act). A lack of investor confidence in the reliability and accuracy of our public reporting could cause our stock price to decline. Our PV modules may never gain market acceptance, in which case we would be unable to sell our PV modules or achieve profitability. Demand for our PV modules may never develop, and our PV modules may never gain market acceptance, if we fail to produce PV modules that compete favorably against competing products on the basis of cost, quality, weight, efficiency and performance. Demand for our PV modules also will depend on our ability to develop and maintain successful relationships with key partners, including OEMs, system integrators and distributors. If our PV modules fail to gain market acceptance as quickly as we envision or at all, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. If sufficient demand for PV solutions does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipate, we may be unable to grow our business, generate sufficient revenue to attain profitability or continue operations. The solar energy industry is at a relatively early stage of development, and the extent to which PV modules, including our own, will be widely adopted is uncertain. If PV technology proves unsuitable for widespread adoption or if demand for PV modules fails to develop sufficiently, we may be unable to grow our business, generate sufficient sales to attain profitability or continue operations. Many factors, many of which are outside of our control, may affect the viability of widespread adoption of PV technology and demand for PV modules, including: •the cost effectiveness of PV modules and installed PV systems relative to other renewable energy sources, such as wind, geothermal and tidal power; •the cost effectiveness of PV modules and installed PV systems relative to conventional carbon-based and other energy sources, such as coal, oil, natural gas and nuclear, and whether the levelized cost of PV can approach that of these conventional energy sources; •whether PV-generated power reaches grid parity in the geographic markets where our products will be used; •the availability and amount of government subsidies and incentives to support development of the solar energy industry; •the deregulation of the electric power industry and the broader energy industry; •the emergence of other disruptive technologies in the energy industry; 17 •the ease with which PV solutions can penetrate and adapt to existing energy industry infrastructure; •the availability of raw materials used in the manufacture of PV products; and •availability of capital to fund development of technology in the solar energy market. If the supply of PV modules exceeds the demand for those modules, then we may be forced to reduce the price of our PV modules in order to compete effectively. Some industry reports forecast overcapacity in the PV module market in ensuing years. In an overcapacity scenario, the supply of PV modules by manufacturers outstrips demand for those products. If either the overall PV module market or our target markets encounter an overcapacity scenario, we may be forced to scale back production or reduce the price of our PV modules in order to generate sales. In either case, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Reduced growth in or the reduction, elimination, modification or expiration of government subsidies and economic incentives for solar electricity applications could reduce demand for our products. National, regional and local governmental bodies in many countries, most notably Germany, Italy, Spain, France, South Korea, Japan, Canada and the United States, have provided support in the form of feed-in tariffs, rebates, tax write-offs and other incentives to end-users, distributors, system integrators and manufacturers of PV products. If any of these subsidies or incentives is discontinued, reduced or substantially modified, if growth in any such subsidies or incentives is reduced, or if renewable portfolio standards or similar production requirements are changed or eliminated, demand for our PV modules in the affected country or countries could decline or never develop, and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected as a result. We face intense competition from manufacturers of c-Si-based PV modules, other manufacturers of thin-film PV modules and other companies in the solar energy industry. The solar energy and renewable energy industries are both highly competitive and continually evolving as participants strive to distinguish themselves within their markets and compete with the larger electric power industry. We believe that our main sources of competition are c-Si PV manufacturers, other thin-film PV manufacturers and companies developing other solar solutions, such as solar thermal and concentrated PV technologies. The thin-film component of the industry is largely made up of a broad mix of technology platforms at various stages of development, and consists of a large and growing number of medium- and small-sized companies. Two of the largest thin-film PV manufacturers are First Solar, Inc. (USA) and United Solar Ovonic LLC (USA), each of which has reported an installed capacity of 100 MW or greater. First Solar manufactures PV modules using CdTe affixed to glass. United Solar Ovonic manufactures PV modules using a-Si affixed to flexible metal foil. Competitors currently developing or selling CIGS-based PV modules include AVANCIS GmbH & Co. KG, Global Solar Energy, Inc., HelioVolt Corporation, Honda Soltec Co. Ltd., MiaSolé, NanoSolar, Inc., SoloPower, Inc. and Würth Solar GmbH & Co. We believe that a number of manufacturers that traditionally have manufactured and sold c-Si-based modules have entered, or in the future may enter, the market for thin-film PV modules and, potentially, CIGS-based PV modules. Many of our existing and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing and other resources than we do. A competitor's greater size provides them with a competitive advantage because they often can realize economies of scale and purchase certain raw materials at lower prices. Many of our competitors also have greater brand name recognition, established distribution networks and large customer bases. In addition, many of our competitors have 18 well-established relationships with our current and potential partners and distributors and have extensive knowledge of our target markets. As a result of their greater size, these competitors may be able to devote more resources to the research, development, promotion and sale of their products or respond more quickly to evolving industry standards and changes in market conditions than we can. Our failure to adapt to changing market conditions and to compete successfully with existing or future competitors could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. A significant increase in the supply of silicon feedstock or a significant reduction in the manufacturing cost of c-Si-based PV modules could lead to pricing pressures on PV modules generally and force us to reduce the sales price of our PV modules. A significant increase in the supply of silicon feedstock or a significant reduction in the manufacturing cost of c-Si-based PV modules could lead to pricing pressures on PV modules generally. In the face of such downward pricing pressures, we might be forced to reduce the sales prices of our PV modules, which, absent a commensurate decrease in our manufacturing costs, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and prevent us from achieving profitability. The interests of our largest stockholder, Norsk Hydro, may conflict with our interests or your interests now or in the future. Norsk Hydro currently owns approximately 23% of all issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and has an option to acquire up to 35% of all issued and outstanding shares of our common stock. See "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence—Transactions Involving Norsk Hydro Produksjon AS." As a result, Norsk Hydro may have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of stockholders regardless of whether other stockholders believe that any such transaction is in their own best interests. Additionally, Norsk Hydro currently holds one seat on our Board of Directors, which affords Norsk Hydro greater control and influence over matters affecting our business. Norsk Hydro may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Norsk Hydro also may pursue opportunities (including by acquisition) that may be adverse to, or be in direct or indirect competition with, us. Additionally, our potential customers may be competitors of Norsk Hydro and our interests in selling to those customers could be divergent from Norsk Hydro's competitive interests. So long as Norsk Hydro continues to own a significant amount of the outstanding shares of our common stock, Norsk Hydro may be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. Currency translation risk may negatively affect our net sales, cost of sales, gross margin or profitability and could result in exchange losses. Although our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar, we may conduct business and incur costs in the local currencies of other countries in which we operate, make sales or buy equipment or materials. As a result, we are subject to currency translation risk. For example, in 2007 we purchased equipment from suppliers in Japan, the United Kingdom and Germany, and our capital expenditures exceeded budgeted amounts due to the decline of the U.S. dollar versus the British pound and the euro. Until, and in some cases after, we place firm purchase orders for capital equipment with each of our suppliers, changes in currency exchange rates could significantly increase our capital expenditures beyond what we have budgeted. Further, changes in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar could affect our net sales and cost of sales and could result in exchange losses. We cannot accurately predict future exchange rates or the overall impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 19 We depend on a limited number of third-party suppliers for key raw materials, and their failure to perform could cause manufacturing delays and impair our ability to deliver PV modules to customers in the required quality and quantity and at a price that is profitable to us. Our failure to obtain raw materials and components that meet our quality, quantity and cost requirements in a timely manner could interrupt or impair our ability to manufacture our PV modules or increase our manufacturing cost. Most of our key raw materials are either sole-sourced or sourced by a limited number of third-party suppliers. As a result, the failure of any of our suppliers to perform could disrupt our supply chain and impair our operations. In addition, many of our suppliers are small companies that may be unable to supply our increasing demand for raw materials as we implement our planned expansion. We may be unable to identify new suppliers in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms. Raw materials from new suppliers may also be less suited for our technology and yield PV modules with lower conversion efficiencies, higher failure rates and higher rates of degradation than PV modules manufactured with the raw materials from our current suppliers. Any change to our relationship with ITN could disrupt certain aspects of our business operations, including our research and development activities. Pursuant to a Service Center Agreement in place until December 31, 2009, we have the right to use certain of ITN's laboratories, equipment and research and development tools on an as needed basis. Also, pursuant to an Administrative Services Agreement in place until December 31, 2008, ITN provides us with certain administrative services at cost, such as facilities management, equipment maintenance, procurement, information technology and technical support. See "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence—Transactions with ITN Energy Systems, Inc." We have relied on these arrangements to conduct a large portion of our research and development activities, including those related to development and improvements of new PV technologies that may affect the viability of our products in the future. We also have relied on these arrangements for back office support services at what we believe are competitive prices. Any change to our existing relationship with ITN, including the sale of ITN to a third party or termination or alteration of the Service Center Agreement or Administrative Services Agreement, could disrupt our research and development activities and other aspects of our business. Among other things, we may be forced to seek and obtain access to different sources of laboratory equipment and tools, or we may be forced to find alternative providers of affected administrative services, or to perform administrative services ourselves. We cannot guarantee that we would be able to do so on the same or as favorable terms than we currently have with ITN, or at all; and the increased costs of alternative arrangements may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our future success depends on retaining our existing management team and hiring and assimilating new key employees, and our inability to attract or retain key personnel would materially harm our business and results of operations. Our success depends on the continuing efforts and abilities of our executive officers, including Matthew Foster, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Joseph Armstrong, our Chief Technology Officer, Dr. Prem Nath, our Vice President of Manufacturing, and Dr. Mohan Misra, our Chief Strategy Officer. Our future success also will depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees, including management, technical and sales personnel. In addition, none of our management or employees is subject to non-compete agreements. The loss of any of our key personnel, the inability to attract, retain or assimilate key personnel in the future, or delays in hiring required personnel could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. 20 Our search for and retention of a qualified Chief Financial Officer, or our inability to identify and retain a qualified Chief Financial Officer, could be disruptive to and harm our business. We currently do not have and have never had a Chief Financial Officer. If we fail to hire and retain a qualified person to fill that position we may not be able to satisfactorily manage our finances or address the complexities of being a public company. Although we currently are interviewing candidates for our Chief Financial Officer position, we cannot assure you that we will find someone suitable to fill this position. There also are no assurances that our Chief Financial Officer, once retained, will work well with our current management team or that his or her transition into the role will be efficient. Our inability to find and employ a qualified Chief Financial Officer or to facilitate his or her smooth transition into the role could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Problems with product quality or performance may cause us to incur warranty expenses, damage our market reputation and prevent us from maintaining or increasing our market share. We do not have sufficient life cycle data for our thin-film PV modules to reliably predict their lifespans in the field. Pending collection of such data over time, we may not be able to offer customers warranty terms equivalent to those of our competitors, which may adversely impact sales or market acceptance of our PV modules. Further, even if we offer warranty terms equivalent to those of our competitors, at this time we cannot guarantee that our PV modules will perform as expected during the lifespans that our customers will expect. If our PV modules fail to perform as expected while under warranty, or if we are unable to support the warranties, sales of our PV modules may be adversely affected or our costs may increase, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Our failure to further refine our technology and develop and introduce improved PV modules could render our PV modules uncompetitive or obsolete and adversely affect sales of our PV modules and our ability to be profitable. We will need to invest significant financial resources in research and development to keep pace with technological advances in the solar energy industry. However, research and development activities are inherently uncertain and we could encounter practical difficulties in commercializing our research results. Our expenditures on research and development may not produce corresponding benefits. Other companies are developing a variety of competing PV technologies and could produce PV modules that prove more cost-effective or have better performance or reliability than our PV modules. As a result, our PV modules may be rendered obsolete or unattractive by the technological advances of others, which could reduce sales of our PV modules and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our PV modules contain limited amounts of cadmium sulfide, and claims of human exposure or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our PV modules contain limited amounts of cadmium sulfide, which is regulated as a hazardous material due to the adverse health effects that may arise from human exposure. We cannot assure you that human or environmental exposure to cadmium sulfide used in our PV modules will not occur. Any such exposure could result in third-party claims against us, damage to our reputation and heightened regulatory scrutiny of our PV modules. Future regulation relating to the use of cadmium in various products could impact the manufacture and sale of our PV modules and could require us to incur unforeseen environmental costs. The occurrence of future events such as these could limit our ability to sell and distribute our PV modules, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 21 Environmental obligations and liabilities could have a substantial negative impact on our financial condition, cash flows and profitability. We are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the use, handling, generation, processing, storage, transportation and disposal of, or human exposure to, hazardous and toxic materials, the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, and occupational health and safety. We are also subject to environmental laws which allow regulatory authorities to compel, or seek reimbursement for, cleanup of environmental contamination at sites now or formerly owned or operated by us and at facilities where our waste is or has been disposed. We may incur significant costs and capital expenditures in complying with these laws and regulations. In addition, violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws or permits may result in restrictions being imposed on our operating activities or in our being subjected to substantial fines, penalties, criminal proceedings, third party property damage or personal injury claims, cleanup costs or other costs. Also, future developments such as more aggressive enforcement policies, the implementation of new, more stringent laws and regulations, or the discovery of presently unknown environmental conditions or non-compliance may require expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Further, greenhouse gas emissions have increasingly become the subject of international, national, state and local attention. Although future regulations could potentially lead to an increased use of alternative energy, there can be no guarantee that such future regulations will encourage solar technology. Given our limited history of operations, it is difficult to predict future environmental expenses. Our intellectual property rights may be inadequate to protect our business, which may result in the unauthorized use of our products or reduced sales or otherwise reduce our ability to compete. Our business and competitive position depends upon our ability to protect our intellectual property rights and proprietary technology, including any PV modules that we develop. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights, both in the United States and in foreign countries, through a combination of patent, trade secret and other intellectual property laws, as well as licensing agreements and third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. Because of the differences in foreign patent and other laws concerning intellectual property rights, our intellectual property rights may not receive the same degree of protection in foreign countries as they would in the United States. Our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Further, any patents issued in connection with our efforts to develop new technology for PV modules may not be broad enough to protect all of the potential uses of our technology. We have applied for patent protection in the U.S. relating to certain existing and proposed technologies and processes and services. While we generally apply for patents in those countries where we intend to make, have made, use, or sell patented products, we may not accurately predict all of the countries where patent protection will ultimately be desirable. If we fail to timely file a patent application in any such country, we may be precluded from doing so at a later date. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that any of our patent applications will be approved. We also cannot assure you that the patents issued as a result of our foreign patent applications will have the same scope of coverage as our United States patents. The patents we own could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others and may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. Further, we cannot assure you that competitors will not infringe our patents, or that we will have adequate resources to enforce our patents. Many patent applications in the U.S. are maintained in secrecy for a period of time after they are filed, and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tends to lag behind actual discoveries by several months, we cannot be certain that we will be the first creator of inventions covered by any patent application we make or that we will be the first to file patent applications on 22 such inventions. Because some patent applications are maintained in secrecy for a period of time, there is also a risk that we could adopt a technology without knowledge of a pending patent application, which technology would infringe a third party patent once that patent is issued. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. It is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require our employees, consultants and advisors to execute proprietary information and invention assignment agreements when they begin working for us. We cannot assure you that these agreements will provide meaningful protection of our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of any such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. Despite our efforts to protect this information, unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, we could be materially adversely affected. Although we rely on copyright laws to protect the works of authorship created by us, we do not register the copyrights in all of our copyrightable works. Copyrights of U.S. origin must be registered before the copyright owner may bring an infringement suit in the United States. Furthermore, if a copyright of U.S. origin is not registered within three months of publication of the underlying work, the copyright owner is precluded from seeking statutory damages or attorneys' fees in any United States enforcement action, and is limited to seeking actual damages and lost profits. Accordingly, if one of our unregistered copyrights of U.S. origin is infringed by a third party, we will need to register the copyright before we can file an infringement suit in the United States, and our remedies in any such infringement suit may be limited. In addition, when others control the prosecution, maintenance and enforcement of certain important intellectual property, such as technology licensed to us, the protection of the intellectual property rights may be outside of our control. If the entity that controls intellectual property rights that are licensed to us does not adequately protect those rights, our rights may be impaired, which may impact our ability to develop, market and commercialize our products. Further, if we breach the terms of any license agreement pursuant to which a third party licenses us intellectual property rights, our rights under that license may be affected and we may not be able to continue to use the licensed intellectual property rights, which could adversely affect our ability to develop, market and commercialize our products. Further, some of our patents and related know how and other technology may cover inventions that were conceived or first reduced to practice under, or in connection with, U.S. government contracts or other federal funding agreements. Although we retain ownership of intellectual property developed during the performance of government contracts, the U.S. government may retain a nonexclusive, non-transferable, irrevocable, paid-up license to practice or have practiced for or on behalf of the U.S. the invention throughout the world. Further, the federal government may retain the right to impose a compulsory license in certain circumstances through the exercise of "march-in" rights under which it can compel us to license the intellectual property. If the government were to exercise "march-in" rights, we could be forced to license intellectual property developed by us on terms unfavorable to us, and our business could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, our ability to exclusively license or assign the intellectual property developed under these federal funding agreements to third parties may be limited or subject to the U.S. government's approval or oversight. These limitations could have a significant impact on the commercial value of the developed intellectual property in the U.S., and similar rights may be present in other countries. If one or more governments should exercise such rights, our ability to achieve profitability could be compromised and our business prospects harmed. Our means of protecting our intellectual property rights may not be adequate, and our competitors may: independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, products and techniques; 23 otherwise gain access to our proprietary information or design around our patents or other intellectual property, which could result in significant costs or substantial damages to our business and our inability to manufacture, market or sell our products. If third parties claim that we are infringing or misappropriating their intellectual property rights, we could be prohibited from selling our PV modules, be required to obtain licenses from third parties or be forced to develop non-infringing alternatives, and we could be subject to substantial monetary damages and injunctive relief. The PV industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. We are aware of numerous issued patents and pending patent applications owned by third parties that may relate to current and future generations of solar energy. The owners of these patents may assert that the manufacture, use or sale of any of our products infringes one or more claims of their patents. Moreover, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that materially and adversely affect our business. Third parties could also assert claims against us that we have infringed or misappropriated their intellectual property rights. Whether or not such claims are valid, we cannot be certain that we have not infringed the intellectual property rights of such third parties. Any infringement or misappropriation claim could result in significant costs or substantial damages to our business or an inability to manufacture, market or sell any of our PV modules that are found to infringe or misappropriate. Even if obtaining a license were feasible, it could be costly and time consuming. Even if we were to prevail in any such action, the litigation could result in substantial cost and diversion of resources that could materially and adversely affect our business. The large number of patents, the rapid rate of new patent issuances, the complexities of the technology involved and uncertainty of litigation increase the risk of business assets and management's attention being diverted to patent litigation. We currently anticipate having substantial international operations that will subject us to a number of risks, including potential unfavorable political, regulatory, labor and tax conditions in foreign countries. We expect to expand our operations abroad in the future and, as a result, we may be subject to the legal, political, social and regulatory requirements and economic conditions of foreign jurisdictions. Risks inherent to international operations, include, but are not limited to, the following: •difficulty in procuring supplies and supply contracts abroad; •difficulty in enforcing agreements in foreign legal systems; •foreign countries imposing additional withholding taxes or otherwise taxing our foreign income, imposing tariffs or adopting other restrictions on foreign trade and investment, including currency exchange controls; •inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights; •risk of nationalization; •changes in general economic and political conditions in the countries in which we may operate, including changes in the government incentives we might rely on; •unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements, including those with respect to environmental protection, export duties and quotas; •difficulty with staffing and managing widespread operations; •trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses, which could increase the prices of our products and make us less competitive in some countries; and 24 •difficulty of and costs relating to compliance with the different commercial and legal requirements of the international markets in which we plan to offer and sell our PV modules. Our business in foreign markets will require us to respond to rapid changes in market conditions in these countries. Our overall success as an international business depends, in part, on our ability to succeed in differing legal, regulatory, economic, social and political conditions. If we are not be able to develop and implement policies and strategies that are effective in each location where we will do business, then our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Our failure to secure proper sites and facilities in which to install manufacturing equipment could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We intend to install manufacturing equipment both domestically and abroad. Selecting suitable locations for this equipment requires consideration of a variety of factors, including availability of a skilled workforce, size and configuration of facilities, proximity to customers, transportation and infrastructure, cost of land and facilities, currency exchange rates and the prevailing political and regulatory environment. A variety of factors related to the location and selection of such sites and facilities could cause our operations to miss our expectations, and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our failure to qualify for Small Business Innovation Research funding could adversely impact our revenues from research and development contracts; further, upon the exercise of "march-in" rights by the federal government, we could be forced to license intellectual property developed by us on terms unfavorable to us. We currently receive funding for research and development under the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program. In 2007, our revenues generated from performance of these contracts totaled approximately $1.0 million. In order to continue to qualify for this funding, we must remain American-owned and independently operated and our size must remain under 500 employees. As a result of our relationship with Norsk Hydro and our planned expansion plans, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to qualify for SBIR funding. If we fail to qualify for SBIR funding, our revenues from research and development could decline or cease, and our net income and financial condition could be could materially and adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 