Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business Our business may suffer as a result of the recent dramatic downturn in the housing market. Our business depends on new water and wastewater infrastructure spending, which is dependent upon residential construction. Recently, there have been steep declines in sales of new homes, which have adversely impacted our volume in recent periods. Although the residential building market is cyclical, it is unclear when this decline will subside. An extended downtown in the residential building markets will negatively affect our sales, profitability and cash flows. A portion of our business relies on government spending related to infrastructure upgrades, repairs and replacements, or in the cyclical non-residential building market. A portion of our business depends on spending on water and wastewater infrastructure upgrades, repairs and replacement, and non-residential construction. We are also subject to general economic conditions, the need for construction projects, interest rates and government incentives provided for public work projects. In addition, a significant percentage of our products are ultimately used by municipalities or other governmental agencies in public water transmission and collection systems. As a result, our sales could decline as a result of declines in the number of projects planned by public water agencies, government spending cuts, general budgetary constraints, difficulty in obtaining necessary permits or the inability of government entities to issue debt. It is not unusual for water projects to be delayed and rescheduled for a number of reasons, including changes in project priorities and difficulties in complying with environmental and other government regulations. Spending growth in the infrastructure upgrades, repairs and replacements sector may slow in the future if state and local governments’ budgets are negatively impacted by downturns in the economy. Even if favorable economic conditions exist, state and local governments may choose not to address deferred infrastructure needs. Recently, there have been steep declines in sales of both new and existing homes, which have impacted our volume in recent periods. The non-residential building market is cyclical. A decline in governmental spending on infrastructure could lead to a decline in our sales, profitability and cash flows. We depend on a group of major distributors for a significant portion of our sales; any loss of these distributors could reduce our sales and continuing consolidation could cause price pressure. Approximately 36% and 38% of our fiscal 2007 and 2006 net sales, respectively, were to our ten largest distributors, and approximately 28% and 32% of our net sales for fiscal 2007 and 2006, respectively, were to our three largest distributors: HD Supply, Ferguson Enterprises and Consolidated Pipe for fiscal 2007 and HD Supply, Ferguson Enterprises and Groeniger for fiscal 2006. We do not have written contracts with any of our major distributors. Our business relationships with most of our major distributors may be terminated at the option of either party upon zero to 60 days’ notice. While our relationships with our ten largest distributors have been long-lasting, distributors in our industry have experienced consolidation in recent years. For example, Home Depot acquired National Waterworks in 2005 and then acquired Hughes Supply in March 2006. The combined businesses have been merged into one entity now called HD Supply, which was sold to a group of private buyers in August 2007. As a result, two of our three previous largest distributors have been combined under common control. In addition, our distributors could be acquired by other distributors who buy products from our competitors. If consolidation among distributors continues, pricing pressure may result, which could lead to a decline in our profitability. Further, our ability to retain our customers in the face of competition generally depends on a variety of factors, including the quality and price of our products and services and our ability to market our products effectively. The loss of either of HD Supply or Ferguson Enterprises as a distributor could reduce our levels of sales and profitability. Our business is subject to risk of price increases and fluctuations and delay in the delivery of raw materials and purchased components. Our business is subject to the risk of price increases and fluctuations and periodic delays in the timely delivery of raw materials and purchased components that are beyond our control. Our operations require substantial amounts of raw materials or purchased components, such as sand, resin, brass ingot, steel pipe, scrap 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements steel and iron, as well as purchased components. Management estimates that raw materials and purchased components, respectively, used in the manufacturing processes as a percentage of respective segment costs of sales for fiscal 2007 were 11% and 47% for Mueller Co., and 23% and 41% for Anvil. Further, management estimates that raw materials used in the U.S. Pipe manufacturing process accounted for approximately 33% of the U.S. Pipe cost of sales for fiscal 2007. For the purposes of these estimates, raw materials excludes electricity, natural gas, water, oxygen, and other ancillary items. Supply/demand relationship for a material and factors particular to that material will drive fluctuations in the price and delivery of such materials. In addition, if any of our suppliers seeks bankruptcy relief or otherwise cannot continue its business as anticipated or we cannot renew our supply contracts on favorable terms, the availability of raw materials could be reduced or the price of raw materials could increase. The availability and price of certain raw materials, such as brass ingot and scrap steel, as well as purchased components are subject to market forces largely beyond our control, including North American and international demand, freight costs, speculation and foreign exchange rates. We generally purchase raw materials at spot prices and generally do not have the ability to hedge our exposure to price changes. We are not always able, and may not be able in the future, to pass on increases in the price of these raw materials to our customers. In particular, when raw material prices increase rapidly or to significantly higher than normal levels, we may not be able to pass price increases through to our customers on a timely basis, if at all, which could lead to reductions of our operating margins and cash flow. Any fluctuations in the price or availability of raw materials or purchased components could reduce our levels of production and sales or impair our profitability. Our industry is very competitive and some of our products are similar to those manufactured by our competitors. The domestic and international markets for flow control products are competitive. While there are only a few competitors for most of our product offerings, many of them are well-established companies with strong brand recognition. Our Anvil products in particular compete on the basis of price and are sold in fragmented markets with low barriers to entry. Also, competition for ductile iron pressure pipe sold by our U.S. Pipe segment comes not only from ductile pipe produced by a concentrated number of domestic manufacturers, but also from pressure pipe composed of other materials, such as polyvinylchloride (PVC), high density polyethylene (HDPE), concrete, fiberglass, reinforced plastic and steel. Foreign competition is intense and could harm our sales, profitability and cash flows. In addition to domestic competition, we face the threat of foreign competition. The intensity of foreign competition is affected by fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, by the relative cost to ship competitive products into the North American markets and by the availability of trade remedies. Foreign competition is likely to further increase and certain product prices will continue to face downward pressure as our domestic competitors shift their operations or outsource manufacturing requirements overseas or source supplies from foreign vendors in an effort to reduce expenses. Interruption of normal operations at our key manufacturing facilities may impair our production capabilities. Some of our key products, including hydrants, valves and ductile iron pipe, are manufactured at large manufacturing facilities. The operations at our major manufacturing facilities may be impaired by various operating risks, including, but not limited to: · catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, floods, earthquakes or other similar occurrences; · interruptions in raw materials and energy supply; · adverse government regulation; · breakdowns or equipment failures; · violations of our permit requirements or revocation of permits; 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements · releases of pollutants and hazardous substances to air, soil, surface water or groundwater; · shortages of equipment or spare parts; and · labor disputes. To date, we have successfully managed non-material occurrences of the foregoing events without significant disruption of our operations. Further occurrences of these events could cause a decrease in, or the elimination of, the revenues generated by our key facilities or a substantial increase in the costs of operating such facilities that, in turn, could impair our cash flows and results of operations. Our brass valve products contain lead, which may be replaced in the future. Our brass valve products, which constituted approximately 6% of our net sales in fiscal years 2007 and 2006, contain approximately 5.0% lead. Environmental advocacy groups, relying on standards established by California’s Proposition 65, are seeking to eliminate or reduce the content of lead in some of these products, including water meters and valves, and to limit their sale in California. Some of our business units have entered into settlement agreements with these environmental advocacy groups that have required them to either modify some of these products or offer substitutes for them with respect to products sold in California. Modifications of or substitutions for our products to meet or conform with regulatory requirements will require us to purchase more expensive raw materials, and we may not be able to pass these costs on to our customers. Federal legislation to substantially restrict lead content in water products has been introduced in the United States Congress. Congress may adopt legislation that would require us to reduce or eliminate lead in our brass products, which could require us to incur substantial additional production expenses. In addition, advocacy groups or other parties may file suit against us, which could result in additional costs in connection with marketing and selling our brass products. We have limited experience operating as a stand-alone entity. We became a stand-alone entity as a result of the Spin-off on December 14, 2006. Our operations as a stand-alone entity may place significant demands on our management, operational and technical resources. Our future performance will depend on our ability to function as a stand-alone entity and on our ability to finance and manage our operations and adapt our information systems to changes in our business. Furthermore, the financial information included in this annual report may not reflect what the operating results and financial condition would have been had we been a separate, stand-alone entity. We are subject to certain risks inherent in managing a decentralized organization. We currently have three distinct business segments and operate under a decentralized organizational structure. A decentralized organization requires the imposition of consistent accounting policies, internal controls, procedures and compliance programs across all of our operations to increase efficiency and operating effectiveness and improve corporate information flows. As a new stand-alone entity, we are in the process of implementing such policies, controls, procedures and programs and it could take time for such implementation to be complete. During the implementation period, our decentralized operating approach could result in inconsistent management practices and procedures, which could adversely affect our business. We may be unsuccessful in identifying or integrating suitable acquisitions, which could impair our growth. A part of our growth strategy depends on the availability of acquisition candidates with businesses that can be successfully integrated into our existing business and that will provide us with complementary manufacturing capabilities, products, services, or customers. However, we may be unable to identify targets that will be suitable for acquisition. In addition, if we identify a suitable acquisition candidate, our ability to successfully implement the acquisition will depend on a variety of factors, including our ability to finance the acquisition. Our ability to finance our acquisitions is subject to a number of factors, including the availability of adequate cash from operations or of acceptable financing terms and the terms of our debt instruments. In addition, there are many challenges to integrating acquired companies and businesses in our company, including eliminating redundant operations, facilities and systems, coordinating management and personnel, retaining key employees, managing 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements different corporate cultures and achieving cost reductions and cross-selling opportunities. We may not be able to meet these challenges in the future. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, and we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. As of September 30, 2007, goodwill was $870.6 million and other identifiable intangible assets were $819.3 million. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets are reviewed at least annually for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in our performance, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of or affect the products and services sold by our business, and a variety of other factors. The amount of any quantified impairment must be expensed immediately as a charge to results of operations. We have substantial debt and we may incur additional debt in the future. As of September 30, 2007, our total debt was $1,100.5 million. The level of our indebtedness could have important consequences, including: · making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our debt instruments; · limiting cash flow available for general corporate purposes, including capital expenditures and acquisitions, because a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to servicing our debt; · limiting our ability to obtain additional debt financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions; · limiting our flexibility to react to competitive and other changes in our industry and economic conditions generally; and · exposing us to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations because a substantial portion of our borrowings is at variable rates of interest, which could result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our debt and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our debt, which may not be successful. Our ability to pay or to refinance our debt will depend upon our future operating performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, business and other factors beyond our control. There is a risk that our business will not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that currently anticipated revenue growth and operating improvements will not be realized or that future borrowings will not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of liquidity from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. However, we may not be able to accomplish these actions on satisfactory terms, or at all. In addition, these actions, if accomplished, could affect the operation and growth of our business and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Restrictive covenants in our debt instruments limit our ability to engage in certain transactions and may diminish our ability to make payments on our indebtedness. Our debt instruments contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in certain transactions. Our senior credit facilities also require the maintenance of specified financial ratios. In addition, our debt instruments require us to provide regular financial information to our lenders and bondholders. Such requirements generally may be satisfied by our timely filing with the SEC annual and quarterly reports under the Securities Exchange 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Our ability to satisfy those financial ratios or covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and there is a risk that we will not meet those tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our debt instruments. If an event of default is not remedied after the delivery of notice of default and lapse of any relevant grace period, the holders of our debt would be able to declare it immediately due and payable. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our senior credit facilities, the lenders could also terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the indebtedness under our senior credit facilities. We have pledged substantially all of our assets (including our intellectual property), other than the assets of our foreign subsidiaries, as security under the senior credit facilities. If the lenders under our senior credit facilities or holders of our outstanding notes accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay our senior credit facilities and our other indebtedness, which could negatively impact the value of our stock and our ability to operate as a going concern. Our business may be harmed by work stoppages and other labor relations matters. We are subject to a risk of work stoppages and other labor relations matters because our hourly workforce is highly unionized. As of September 30, 2007, approximately 68% of our hourly workforce was represented by unions. These employees are represented by locals from approximately six different unions, including the Glass, Molders, Pottery, Plastics and Allied Workers International Union, which is our largest union. Our labor agreements will be negotiated as they expire at various times through June 2012. Work stoppages for an extended period of time could impair our business. Labor costs are a significant element of the total expenditures involved in our manufacturing process, and an increase in the costs of labor could therefore harm our business. In addition, the freight companies that deliver our products to our distributors generally use unionized truck drivers, and our business could suffer if our contractors face work stoppages or increased labor costs. Our revenues are influenced by weather conditions and the level of construction activity at different times of the year; we may not be able to generate revenues that are sufficient to cover our expenses during certain periods of the year. Some of our products, including ductile iron pipe, are moderately seasonal, with lower sales in the winter months. This seasonality in demand has resulted in fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. In order to satisfy demand during peak periods, we may incur costs associated with inventory build-up, and there can be no assurance that our projections as to future needs will be accurate. We have a backlog of orders for some products for which we have inadequate inventories, or which are made-to-order. Because much of our expenses are fixed payments, seasonal trends can cause reductions in our profit margin and financial condition, especially during our slower periods. We may be subject to product liability or warranty claims that could require us to make significant payments. We would be exposed to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury or property damage. There is a risk that we will experience product liability or warranty losses in the future or that we will incur costs to defend such claims. Such losses and costs may be material. While we currently have product liability insurance, our product liability insurance coverage may not be adequate for any liabilities that may ultimately be incurred or the coverage may not continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. A successful claim brought against us in excess of our available insurance coverage could require us to make significant payments or a requirement to participate in a product recall may harm our reputation or profitability. We rely on Tyco to indemnify us for certain liabilities and there is a risk that Tyco may become unable or fail to fulfill its obligations. Under the terms of the purchase agreement (the “Tyco Purchase Agreement”) relating to the August 1999 sale by Tyco International Ltd. (“Tyco”) of the Mueller Co. and Anvil businesses to our prior owners, we are indemnified by Tyco for all liabilities arising in connection with the operation of these businesses prior to their sale by Tyco, including with respect to products manufactured or sold prior to the closing of that transaction. The indemnity survives forever and is not subject to any dollar limits. In the past, Tyco has made substantial payments and/or assumed defense of claims pursuant to this indemnification provision. However, we may be 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements responsible for these liabilities in the event that Tyco ever becomes financially unable or fails to comply with, the terms of the indemnity. In addition, Tyco’s indemnity does not cover product liabilities to the extent caused by our products manufactured after that transaction. In June 2007, Tyco was separated into three separate, publicly traded companies. Should the entity or entities that assume Tyco’s obligations under the Tyco Purchase Agreement ever become financially unable or fail to comply with the terms of the indemnity, we may be responsible for such obligations or liabilities. For more information about our potential product liabilities, see “Item 3—Legal Proceedings”. Environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could subject us to liability for fines, clean-ups and other damages, require us to incur significant costs to modify our operations and increase our manufacturing costs. We are subject to various laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety and must incur capital and other expenditures to comply with these requirements. Failure to comply with any environmental, health or safety requirements could result in the assessment of damages, or imposition of penalties, suspension of production, a required upgrade or change to equipment or processes or a cessation of operations at one or more of our facilities. Because these laws are complex, constantly changing and may be applied retroactively, there is a risk that these requirements, in particular as they change in the future, may impair our business, profitability and results of operations. In addition, we will be required to incur costs to comply with the EPA’s National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP) for iron and steel foundries and for our foundries’ painting operations. These costs may be substantial. See “Item 1—Business—Environmental Matters.” We may be required to conduct investigations and perform remedial activities that could require us to incur material costs in the future. Our operations involve the use of hazardous substances and the disposal of hazardous wastes. We may incur costs to manage these substances and wastes and may be subject to claims for damage for personal injury, property damages or damage to natural resources. Our U.S. Pipe segment has been identified as a potentially responsible party liable under federal environmental laws for a portion of the clean-up costs with regard to two sites, one in Alabama and one in California, and is currently subject to an administrative consent order requiring certain monitoring and clean-up with regard to its Burlington, New Jersey facility. Such clean-up costs could be substantial and could have a negative effect on our profitability and cash flows in any given reporting period. For more information about our environmental compliance and potential environmental liabilities, see “Item 1—Business—Environmental Matters.” Compliance with the securities laws and regulations is likely to make it more difficult and expensive for us to maintain directors and officers liability insurance and to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors. We expect the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the rules and regulations subsequently implemented by the SEC and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board to continue to impose compliance burdens and costs on our operations. Those rules and regulations may make it more difficult and expensive for us to maintain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to maintain coverage. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and executive officers. If we fail to protect our intellectual property, our business and ability to compete could suffer. Our business depends upon our technology and know-how, which is largely developed internally. While we believe that none of our operating units is substantially dependent on any single patent, trademark, copyright, or other form of intellectual property, we rely on a combination of patent protection, copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets protection, employee and third party confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. There is a risk that the measures that we take to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to deter infringement, misappropriation or independent third-party development of our technology or to prevent an unauthorized third party from obtaining or using information or intellectual property that we regard as proprietary or to keep others from using brand names 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements similar to our own. The disclosure, misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property could harm our competitive position. In addition, our actions to enforce our rights may result in substantial costs and diversion of management and other resources. We may also be subject to intellectual property infringement claims from time to time, which may result in our incurring additional expenses and diverting company resources to respond to these claims. If transportation for our ductile iron pipe products becomes unavailable or uneconomic for our customers, our ability to sell ductile iron pipe products would suffer. Transportation costs are a critical factor in a customer’s purchasing decision. Increases in transportation costs could make our ductile iron pipe products less competitive with the same or alternative products from competitors. We typically depend upon rail, barge and trucking systems to deliver our products to customers. While our customers typically arrange and pay for transportation from our factory to the point of use, disruption of these transportation services because of weather-related problems, strikes, lock-outs or other events could temporarily impair our ability to supply our products to our customers thereby resulting in lost sales and reduced profitability. Risks Relating to Our Relationship with Walter Industries We may have substantial additional liability for federal income tax allegedly owed by Walter Industries. After the close of trading on December 14, 2006, Walter Industries distributed to its stockholders approximately 1.65 shares of our Series B common stock for each share of Walter Industries common stock held by the stockholders of record on December 6, 2006, resulting in the distribution of 85,844,920 shares of our Series B common stock in a transaction intended to qualify as a tax-free spin-off under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Prior to this distribution, Walter Industries owned all of our Series B common stock, representing approximately 75% of our economic value and approximately 96% of the combined voting power of all our voting stock. Each member of a consolidated group for federal income tax purposes is severally liable for the federal income tax liability of each other member of the consolidated group for any year in which it is a member of the group at any time during such year. Each member of the Walter Industries controlled group, which included the Company (including our subsidiaries) through December 14, 2006, is also jointly and severally liable for pension and benefit funding and termination liabilities of other group members, as well as certain benefit plan taxes. Accordingly, the Company could be liable under such provisions in the event any such liability is incurred, and not discharged, by any other member of the Walter Industries consolidated or controlled group for any period during which the Company was included in the Walter Industries consolidated or controlled group. A dispute exists with regard to federal income taxes for fiscal years 1980 through 1994 and 1999 through 2001 allegedly owed by the Walter Industries consolidated group, which included the U.S. Pipe segment during these periods. According to Walter Industries’ quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2007, Walter Industries’ management estimates that the amount of tax claimed by the IRS is approximately $34.0 million for issues currently in dispute in bankruptcy court for matters unrelated to the Company. This amount is subject to interest and penalties. In addition, the IRS has issued a Notice of Proposed Deficiency assessing additional tax of $82.2 million for the fiscal years ended May 31, 2000, December 31, 2000 and December 31, 2001. As a matter of law, the Company is jointly and severally liable for any final tax determination, which means that in the event Walter Industries is unable to pay any amounts owed, the Company would be liable. Walter Industries disclosed in the above mentioned Form 10-Q that they believe their filing positions have substantial merit and that they intend to defend vigorously any claims asserted. The tax allocation agreement between the Company and Walter Industries allocates to us certain tax risks associated with the Spin-off. Walter Industries effectively controlled all of our tax decisions for periods during which we were a member of the Walter Industries consolidated federal income tax group and certain combined, consolidated or unitary state and local income tax groups. Under the terms of the income tax allocation agreement between Walter 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Industries and the Company dated as of May 26, 2006, the Company generally computes its tax liability on a stand-alone basis, but Walter Industries has sole authority to respond to and conduct all tax proceedings (including tax audits) relating to our federal income and combined state returns, to file all such returns on behalf of us and to determine the amount of our liability to (or entitlement to payment from) Walter Industries for such periods. This arrangement may result in conflicts of interests between the Company and Walter Industries. In addition, the tax allocation agreement provides that if the Spin-off of our Series B common stock by Walter Industries is determined not to be tax-free pursuant to Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, the Company generally will be responsible for any taxes incurred by Walter Industries or its stockholders if such taxes result from certain of our actions or omissions and for a percentage of any such taxes that are not a result of our actions or omissions or Walter Industries’ actions or omissions taxes based upon our market value relative to Walter Industries’ market value. Additionally, to the extent that Walter Industries was unable to pay taxes, if any, attributable to the spin-off and for which it is responsible under our tax allocation agreement, we could be liable for those taxes as a result of being a member of the same consolidated group for the year in which the Spin-off occurred. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements 