Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below are certain risk factors that could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. You should carefully read the following risk factors, together with the financial statements, related notes and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that contain risks and uncertainties. Please refer to the discussion of “Forward-Looking Statements” on page one of this Annual Report on Form 10-K in connection with your consideration of the risk factors and other important factors that may affect future results described below. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risks and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before you decide to buy our common stock. Our business, financial condition and operating results may suffer if any of the following risks are realized. If any of these risks or uncertainties occur, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you might lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business Competition could substantially impair our business and our operating results. We operate in the print industry and several print-related industries, including paper and pulp, graphics art and pre-press and fulfillment and logistics. Competition in these industries is intense. Our primary competitors are printers that employ traditional methods of marketing and selling their printed materials. Many of these printers, such as Quad/Graphics, Workflow/Relizon and R.R. Donnelley, have larger client bases and significantly more resources than we do. Print buyers may prefer to utilize the traditional services offered by the printers with whom we compete. Alternatively, some of these printers may elect to offer outsourced print procurement services or enterprise software applications, and their well-established client relationships, industry knowledge, brand recognition, financial and marketing capabilities, technical resources and pricing flexibility may provide them with a competitive advantage over us. We also compete with a number of print suppliers, distributors and brokers. Several of these competitors, such as Williams Lea, Cirqit, Workflow/Relizon and Newline/Noosh, offer outsourced print procurement services or enterprise software applications for the print industry. These competitors, or new competitors that enter the market, may also offer print procurement services similar to and competitive with or superior to our current or proposed offerings and achieve greater market acceptance. In addition, a software solution and database similar to PPM4™ could be created over time by a competitor with sufficient financial resources and comparable experience in the print industry. If our competitors are able to offer comparable services, we could lose clients, and our market share could decline. Our competitors may also establish cooperative relationships to increase their ability to address client needs. Increased competition may lead to revenue reductions, reduced gross margins or a loss of market share, any one of which could harm our business and our operating results. 10 Table of Contents If our services do not achieve widespread commercial acceptance, our business will suffer. Most companies currently coordinate the procurement and management of their print orders with their own employees using a combination of telephone, facsimile, e-mail and the Internet. Growth in the demand for our services depends on the adoption of our outsourcing model for print procurement services. We may not be able to persuade prospective clients to change their traditional print management processes. Our business could suffer if our services are not accepted or are not perceived by the marketplace to be effective or valuable. If our suppliers do not meet our needs or expectations, or those of our clients, our business would suffer. The success of our business depends to a large extent on our relationships with our clients and our reputation for high quality printed products and print procurement services. We do not own printing presses or other printing equipment. Instead, we rely on third-party suppliers to deliver the printed products and services that we provide to our clients. As a result, we do not directly control the manufacturing of the products or the services provided by our suppliers. If our suppliers do not meet our needs or expectations, or those of our clients, our professional reputation may be damaged, our business would be harmed and we could be subject to legal liability. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from a relatively limited number of large clients and any loss of, or decrease in sales to, these clients could harm our results of operations. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from a relatively limited number of large clients. Revenue from our top-ten clients accounted for 47%, 41% and 33% of our revenue during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. Our largest client accounted for 14%, 12% and 9% of our revenue in 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. We are likely to continue to experience ongoing client concentration, particularly if we are successful in attracting large enterprise clients. Moreover, there may be a loss or reduction in business from one or more of our large clients. It is also possible that revenue from these clients, either individually or as a group, may not reach or exceed historical levels in any future period. The loss or significant reduction of business from our major clients would adversely affect our results of operations. A significant or prolonged economic downturn, or a dramatic decline in the demand for printed products, could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Our results of operations are affected directly by the level of business activity of our clients, which in turn is affected by the level of economic activity and cyclicality in the industries and markets that they serve. Certain of our products are sold to industries, including the advertising, retail, housing, financial and pharmaceutical industries, that experience significant fluctuations in demand based on general economic conditions, cyclicality and other factors beyond our control. An economic stagnation or downturn could result in a reduction of the marketing budgets of our clients or a decrease in the number of print jobs that our clients order from us. Reduced demand from one of these industries or markets could adversely affect our revenues, operating income and profitability. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our business, prospects and future financial performance. We formed our business in September 2001 and have a limited operating history, which makes evaluating our current business and prospects difficult. The revenue and income potential of our business is uncertain, which makes it difficult to predict accurately our future financial performance. We may face periods where our financial performance falls below investor expectations. As a result, the price of our common stock may decline. We are subject to the internal control evaluation and attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we include in our annual report our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year. Furthermore, 11 Table of Contents our independent registered public accounting firm (“Firm”) is required to report on whether it believes we maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year. We successfully completed our assessment and obtained our Firm’s report as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. In future years, if we fail to timely complete this assessment, or if we cannot obtain our Firm’s report as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and a loss of public confidence in our internal control. In addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to timely meet our regulatory reporting obligations. A decrease in the number of our suppliers could adversely affect our business. In 2008, our top-ten suppliers accounted for approximately 14% of the products we sold, and no supplier accounted for over 2% of our products sold. We expect to continue to rely on these suppliers to fulfill a substantial portion of our print orders in the future. These suppliers are not contractually required to continue to accept orders from us. If production capacity at a significant number of these suppliers becomes unavailable, we will be required to use fewer suppliers, which could significantly limit our ability to serve our clients on competitive terms. In addition, we rely on price bids provided by our suppliers to populate our database. If the number of our suppliers decreases significantly, we will not be able to obtain sufficient pricing information for PPM4™, which could affect our ability to obtain favorable pricing for our clients. If we are unable to expand the number of our account executives, or if a significant number of our account executives leave InnerWorkings, our ability to increase our revenues could be negatively impacted. Our ability to expand our business will depend largely on our ability to attract additional account executives with established client relationships. Competition for qualified account executives can be intense and we may be unable to hire such persons. Any difficulties we experience in expanding the number of our account executives could have a negative impact on our ability to expand our client base, increase our revenue and continue our growth. In addition, we must retain our current account executives and properly incentivize them to obtain new clients and maintain existing client relationships. If a significant number of our account executives leave InnerWorkings and take their clients with them, our revenue could be negatively impacted. We have entered into non-compete agreements with our account executives to mitigate this risk, but we may need to litigate to enforce our rights under these agreements, which could be time-consuming, expensive and ineffective. A significant increase in the turnover rate among our current account executives could also increase our recruiting costs and decrease our operating efficiency and productivity, which could lead to a decline in the demand for our services. If we are unable to expand our enterprise client base, our revenue growth rate may be negatively impacted. As part of our growth strategy, we seek to attract new enterprise clients and migrate our transactional client relationships into enterprise engagements under long-term contracts. If we are unable to attract new enterprise clients or expand our relationships with our existing transactional clients, our ability to grow our business will be hindered. Many of our clients may terminate their relationship with us on short notice and with no penalties or limited penalties. Our transactional clients, which accounted for approximately 30%, 38% and 36% of our revenue in 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively, typically use our services on an order-by-order basis rather than under long-term contracts. These clients have no obligation to continue using our services and may stop purchasing from us at any time. We have entered into contracts with our enterprise clients, which accounted for approximately 70%, 62% 12 Table of Contents and 64% of our revenue in 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively, that generally have an open-ended duration. Most of these contracts, however, do not impose minimum purchase or volume requirements, and typically permit the clients to terminate our engagements on prior notice ranging from 90 days to 12 months with limited or no penalties. The volume and type of services we provide our clients may vary from year to year and could be reduced if a client were to change its outsourcing or print procurement strategy. If a significant number of our transactional or enterprise clients elect to terminate or not to renew their engagements with us, or if the volume of their print orders decreases, our business, operating results and financial condition could suffer. There are risks that our acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. These risks include: • problems with integrating the operations and technologies of our acquired companies with our business; • distraction and diversion of management time and attention from our existing core business; • inability to retain business relationships with the customers of our acquired companies; and • inability to retain key employees of our acquired companies. We may not be able to develop or implement new systems, procedures and controls that are required to support the anticipated growth in our operations. Our revenues increased from $5.0 million in 2002 to $419.0 million in 2008, representing a compound annual growth rate of 109.2%. Between January 1, 2002 and December 31, 2008, the number of our employees and independent contractors increased from 21 to 761. Continued growth could place a significant strain on our ability to: • recruit, motivate and retain qualified account executives, procurement managers and management personnel; • preserve our culture, values and entrepreneurial environment; • develop and improve our internal administrative infrastructure and execution standards; and • maintain high levels of client satisfaction. To manage our growth, we must implement and maintain proper operational and financial controls and systems. Further, we will need to manage our relationships with various clients and suppliers. We cannot give any assurance that we will be able to develop and implement, on a timely basis, the systems, procedures and controls required to support the growth in our operations or effectively manage our relationships with various clients and suppliers. If we are unable to manage our growth, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. A decrease in levels of excess capacity in the U.S. commercial print industry could have an adverse impact on our business. We believe that for the past several years the U.S. commercial print industry has experienced significant levels of excess capacity. Our business seeks to capitalize on imbalances between supply and demand in the print industry by obtaining favorable pricing terms from suppliers in our network through a competitive bid process. Reduced excess capacity in the print industry generally and in our supplier network specifically could have an adverse impact on our ability to execute our business strategy and on our business results and growth prospects. Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights may impair our competitive position. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors could replicate our proprietary technology in order to offer similar services and harm our competitive position. We rely on a 13 Table of Contents combination of trademark and trade secret laws and confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary technology. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights will be adequate or that third parties will not infringe or misappropriate our rights or imitate or duplicate our services or methodologies, including PPM4™. We may need to litigate to enforce our intellectual property rights or determine the validity and scope of the rights of others. Any such litigation could be time-consuming and costly. If we are unable to maintain PPM4™, demand for our services and our revenues could decrease. We rely heavily on PPM4™ to procure printed products for our clients. To keep pace with changing technologies and client demands, we must correctly interpret and address market trends and enhance the features and functionality of our technology in response to these trends, which may lead to significant research and development costs. We may be unable to accurately determine the needs of print buyers or the trends in the print industry or to design and implement the appropriate features and functionality of our technology in a timely and cost-effective manner, which could result in decreased demand for our services and a corresponding decrease in our revenue. In addition, we must protect our systems against physical damage from fire, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hacker attacks, physical break-ins and similar events. Any software or hardware damage or failure that causes interruption or an increase in response time of PPM4™ could reduce client satisfaction and decrease usage of our services. If the key members of our management team do not remain with us in the future, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our future success will depend to a significant extent on the continued services of Eric Belcher, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Joseph Busky, our Chief Financial Officer, Ryan Irwin, our Executive Vice President of Sales, Jan Sevcik, our Chief Information Officer, and Jonathan Shean, our Senior Vice President of Operations. The loss of the services of any of these or other individuals could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition and could divert other senior management time in searching for their replacements. Our management team has limited experience managing a public company, and regulatory compliance may divert its attention from the day-to-day management of our business. The individuals who now constitute our management team have limited experience managing a publicly-traded company and limited experience complying with the increasingly complex laws pertaining to public companies. Our management team may not successfully or efficiently manage the significant regulatory oversight and reporting obligations under federal securities laws. In particular, these obligations will require substantial attention from our senior management and divert its attention away from the day-to-day management of our business, which could materially and adversely impact our business operations. Because many of the members of our management team have been employed with us for a short period of time, we cannot be certain that they will be able to manage our business successfully. We are dependent on our management team for our business to be successful. Many of our key management personnel have been employed by us for less than one year. Therefore, we cannot be certain that we will be able to allocate responsibilities appropriately and that the new members of our management team will succeed in their roles. Our inability to integrate members of our current management team with our business model would make it difficult for us to manage our business successfully and to pursue our growth strategy. 14 Table of Contents Our business is subject to seasonal sales fluctuations, which could result in volatility or have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Our business is subject to some degree of sales seasonality. Historically, the percentage of our annual revenue earned during the third and fourth fiscal quarters has been higher due, in part, to a greater number of print orders in anticipation of the year-end holiday season. If our business continues to experience seasonality, we may incur significant additional expenses during our third and fourth quarters, including additional staffing expenses. Consequently, if we were to experience lower than expected revenue during any future third or fourth quarter, whether from a general decline in economic conditions or other factors beyond our control, our expenses may not be offset, which would have a disproportionate impact on our operating results and financial condition for that year. Price fluctuations in raw materials costs could adversely affect the margins on our print orders. The print industry relies on a constant supply of various raw materials, including paper and ink. Prices within the print industry are directly affected by the cost of paper, which is purchased in a price sensitive market that has historically exhibited price and demand cyclicality. Prices are also affected by the cost of ink. Our profit margin and profitability are largely a function of the rates that our suppliers charge us compared to the rates that we charge our clients. If our suppliers increase the price of our print orders, and we are not able to find suitable or alternative suppliers, our profit margin may decline. If any of our products causes damages or injuries, we may experience product liability claims. Clients and third parties who claim to suffer damages or an injury caused by our products may bring lawsuits against us. Defending lawsuits arising out of any of the products we provide to our clients could be costly and absorb substantial amounts of management attention, which could adversely affect our financial performance. A significant product liability judgment against us could harm our reputation and business. If any of our key clients fails to pay for our services, our profitability would be negatively impacted. We take full title and risk of loss for the printed products we procure from our suppliers. Our obligation to pay our suppliers is not contingent upon receipt of payment from our clients. In 2006, 2007 and 2008, our revenue was $160.5 million, $288.4 million and $419.0 million, respectively, and our top-ten clients accounted for 47%, 41% and 33%, respectively, of such revenue. If any of our key clients fails to pay for our services, our profitability would be negatively impacted. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, effectively integrate newly acquired businesses or achieve expected profitability from acquisitions. Part of our growth strategy is to increase our revenue and the markets that we serve through the acquisition of additional businesses. We are actively considering certain acquisitions and will likely consider others. There can be no assurance that suitable candidates for acquisitions can be identified or, if suitable candidates are identified, that acquisitions can be completed on acceptable terms, if at all. Even if suitable candidates are identified, any future acquisitions may entail a number of risks that could adversely affect our business and the market price of our common stock, including the integration of the acquired operations, diversion of management’s attention, risks of entering markets in which we have limited experience, adverse short-term effects on our reported operating results, the potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses and risks associated with unanticipated liabilities. We may use common stock to pay for acquisitions. If the owners of potential acquisition candidates are not willing to receive common stock in exchange for their businesses, our acquisition prospects could be limited. 15 Table of Contents Future acquisitions could also result in accounting charges, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities and increased debt and contingent liabilities, including liabilities related to unknown or undisclosed circumstances, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and the market price of our common stock. We incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. We face increased legal, accounting, administrative and other costs and expenses as a public company that we did not incur as a private company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, including the requirements of Section 404, as well as rules and regulations subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and the Nasdaq Global Market, impose additional reporting and other obligations on public companies. We expect that continuing compliance with these public company requirements will increase our costs and make some activities more time-consuming. We also expect that it will be difficult and expensive to maintain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. Advocacy efforts by stockholders and third parties may also prompt even more changes in governance and reporting requirements. We expect that the additional reporting and other obligations imposed on us by these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and the costs of our related legal, accounting and administrative activities. These increased costs will require us to divert a significant amount of money that we could otherwise use to expand our business and achieve our strategic objectives. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, and our failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from growing. We may in the future be required to raise capital through public or private financing or other arrangements. Such financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, and our failure to raise capital when needed could harm our business. Additional equity financing may be dilutive to the holders of our common stock, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants and could reduce our profitability. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to grow our business or respond to competitive pressures. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. The trading prices of many newly publicly-traded companies are highly volatile. Since our initial public offering in August 2006 through March 3, 2009, the closing sale price of our common stock as reported by the Nasdaq Global Market has ranged from a low of $1.92 on March 2, 2009 to a high of $18.69 on October 9, 2007. Certain factors may continue to cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, including: • fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • success of competitive products or services; • changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of debt or equity securities; • announcements by us, our competitors, our clients or our suppliers of significant products or services, contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances; 16 Table of Contents • regulatory developments in the United States or foreign countries; • litigation involving our company, our general industry or both; • additions or departures of key personnel; • investors’ general perception of us; and • changes in general economic, industry and market conditions. In addition, as a result of the current economic crisis, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations. The current economic environment has negatively affected demand for our services, and we anticipate reduced demand will continue in early 2009. If any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall. If equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. We do not control these analysts. The price of our stock could decline if one or more equity analysts downgrade our stock or if these analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. Our quarterly results are difficult to predict and may vary from quarter to quarter, which may result in our failure to meet the expectations of investors and increased volatility of our stock price. The continued use of our services by our clients depends, in part, on the business activity of our clients and our ability to meet their cost saving needs, as well as their own changing business conditions. The time between our payment to the supplier of a print job and our receipt of payment from our clients varies with each print job and client. In addition, a significant percentage of our revenue is subject to the discretion of our enterprise and transactional clients, who may stop using our services at any time, subject, in the case of most of our enterprise clients, to advance notice requirements. Therefore, the number, size and profitability of print jobs may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. As a result, our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict and may fall below the expectations of current or potential investors in some future quarters, which could lead to a significant decline in the market price of our stock. This may lead to volatility in our stock price. The factors that are likely to cause these variations include: • the demand for our print procurement solution; • the use of outsourced enterprise solutions; • clients’ business decisions regarding the quantities of printed products they purchase; • the number, timing and profitability of our print jobs, unanticipated contract terminations and print job postponements; • new product introductions and enhancements by our competitors; • changes in our pricing policies; • our ability to manage costs, including personnel costs; and • costs related to possible acquisitions of other businesses. 17 Table of Contents Because a limited number of stockholders control a significant amount of the voting power of our common stock, investors in the Company may not be able to determine the outcome of stockholder votes. Orange Media, LLC, the sole member of which is Elizabeth Kramer Lefkofsky, who is the wife of Eric P. Lefkofsky, and Richard A. Heise, Jr. beneficially owned and had the ability to exercise voting control over, in the aggregate, 21.0% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2008. In addition, New Enterprise Associates 11, Limited Partnership and various affiliates of New Enterprise Associates 11 beneficially owned, and had the ability to exercise voting control over, in the aggregate, 14.7% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2008. As a result, these stockholders will be able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any amendments to our certificate of incorporation and significant corporate transactions. Without the consent of these stockholders, we could be delayed or prevented from entering into transactions (including the acquisition of our company by third parties) that may be viewed as beneficial to us or our other stockholders. In addition, this significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock if investors perceive disadvantages in owning stock in a company with controlling stockholders. We do not currently intend to pay dividends, which may limit the return on your investment in us. We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. If our board of directors authorizes the issuance of preferred stock, holders of our common stock could be diluted and harmed. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to establish the preferred stock’s voting powers, preferences and other rights and qualifications without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power and dividend liquidation rights of the holders of common stock. In addition, the issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding voting stock or otherwise adversely affect the market price of our common stock. It is possible that we may need to raise capital through the sale of preferred stock in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 