Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business Our business may suffer as a result of a downturn in government spending related to infrastructure upgrades, repairs and replacements, or in the cyclical residential or non-residential building markets. Our business is primarily dependent upon spending on water and wastewater infrastructure upgrades, repairs and replacement, new water and wastewater infrastructure spending (which is dependent upon residential construction) and spending on non-residential construction. We are also subject to general economic conditions, the need for construction projects, interest rates and government incentives provided for public work projects. In addition, a significant percentage of our products are ultimately used by municipalities or other governmental agencies in public water transmission and collection systems. As a result, our sales could decline as a result of declines in the number of projects planned by public water agencies, government spending cuts, general budgetary constraints, difficulty in obtaining necessary permits or the inability of government entities to issue debt. It is not unusual for water projects to be delayed and rescheduled for a number of reasons, including changes in project priorities and difficulties in complying with environmental and other government regulations. Spending growth in the infrastructure upgrades, repairs and replacement sector may slow in the future if state and local governments’ budgets are negatively impacted by downturns in the economy. If favorable economic conditions exist, state and local governments may choose not to address deferred infrastructure needs. Although the residential building market has experienced growth in recent years, this growth may not continue in the future. The residential and non-residential building markets are cyclical. Any significant decline in the residential or non-residential building markets or governmental spending on infrastructure could lead to a significant decline in our sales, profitability and cash flows. 15 Our industry is very competitive and some of our products are commodities. The domestic and international markets for flow control products are competitive. While there are only a few competitors for most of our product offerings, many of them are well-established companies with strong brand recognition. In particular, our malleable iron and cast iron pipe fitting products, which together comprised 5% of our annual sales over the last two years, face competition from less expensive imports and our pipe nipple and hanger products and our pipe fittings and couplings products, which together comprised 16% of our annual sales over the last two years, compete on the basis of price and are sold in fragmented markets with low barriers to entry, allowing less expensive domestic and foreign products to gain market share and reduce our margins. Also, competition for ductile iron pressure pipe sold by our U.S. Pipe segment comes not only from ductile pipe produced by a concentrated number of domestic manufacturers, but also from pipe composed of other materials, such as polyvinylchloride (PVC), high density polyethylene (HDPE), concrete, fiberglass, reinforced plastic and steel. Foreign competition is intense and could harm our sales, profitability and cash flows. In addition to domestic competition, we face intense foreign competition. The intensity of foreign competition is affected significantly by fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, by the relative cost to ship competitive products into the North American markets and by the level of import duties imposed by the U.S. Department of Commerce on certain products. Foreign competition is likely to further increase and certain product prices will continue to face downward pressure as our domestic competitors shift their operations or outsource manufacturing requirements overseas or source supplies from foreign vendors in an effort to reduce expenses. We depend on a group of major distributors for a significant portion of our sales; any loss of these distributors could reduce our sales and continuing consolidation could cause price pressure. Approximately 38% of our 2006 sales were to our ten largest distributors, and approximately 32% of our sales were to our three largest distributors: Home Depot, Ferguson Enterprises and Groeniger. Our business relationships with most of our major distributor branches may be terminated at the option of either party upon zero to 60 days’ notice. While our relationships with our ten largest distributors have been long-lasting, distributors in our industry have experienced significant consolidation in recent years, and our distributors may be acquired by other distributors who buy products from our competitors. Our ability to retain these customers in the face of other competitors generally depends on a variety of factors, including the quality and price of our products and our ability to market these products effectively. As consolidation among distributors continues, pricing pressure may result, which could lead to a significant decline in our profitability. For example, Home Depot acquired National Waterworks in 2005 and then acquired Hughes Supply in March 2006. As a result, two of our three previous largest distributors have been combined under common control. Moreover, the loss of either of Home Depot or Ferguson Enterprises as a distributor could significantly reduce our levels of sales and profitability. Our brass valve products contain lead, which may be replaced in the future. Our brass valve products, which constituted approximately 6% of our annual sales, contain approximately 5.0% lead. Environmental advocacy groups, relying on standards established by California’s Proposition 65, are seeking to eliminate or reduce the content of lead in some of these products, including water meters and valves, and to limit their sale in California. Some of our business units have entered into settlement agreements with these environmental advocacy groups that have required them to either modify some of these products or offer substitutes for them with respect to products sold in California. Modifications of or substitutions for our products to meet or conform with regulatory requirements will require us to purchase more expensive raw materials, and we may not be able to pass these costs on to our 16 customers. Legislation to substantially restrict lead content in water products has been introduced in the United States Congress. Congress may adopt legislation that would require us to reduce or eliminate lead in our brass products which could require us to incur substantial additional production expenses. In addition, advocacy groups or other parties may file suit against us under Proposition 65, which could result in additional costs in connection with marketing and selling our brass products in California. Our business is subject to risk of price increases and fluctuations and delay in the delivery of raw materials and purchased components. Our business is subject to the risk of price increases and fluctuations and periodic delays in the delivery of raw materials and purchased components that are beyond our control. Our operations require substantial amounts of raw materials or purchased components, such as steel pipe and scrap steel and iron, brass ingot, sand, resin, and natural gas. Management estimates that scrap metal and ferrous alloys used in the U.S. Pipe manufacturing process account for approximately 40% of the U.S. Pipe cost to manufacture ductile iron pipe and raw materials and purchased components used in our manufacturing processes currently account for approximately 25% of the Mueller and Anvil cost of goods sold. Fluctuations in the price and delivery of these materials may be driven by the supply/demand relationship for a material and factors particular to that material. In addition, if any of our suppliers seeks bankruptcy relief or otherwise cannot continue its business as anticipated or we cannot renew our supply contracts on favorable terms, the availability of raw materials could be reduced or the price of raw materials could increase. The availability and price of certain raw materials or purchased components, such as steel scrap, brass ingot and natural gas are subject to market forces largely beyond our control, including North American and international demand, freight costs, speculation and foreign exchange rates. We generally purchase raw materials at spot prices and generally do not have the ability to hedge our exposure to price changes. We are not always able, and may not be able in the future, to pass on increases in the price of these raw materials to our customers. In particular, when raw material prices increase rapidly or to significantly higher than normal levels, we may not be able to pass price increases through to our customers on a timely basis, if at all, which could lead to significant reductions of our operating margins and cash flow. Any fluctuations in the price or availability of raw materials or purchased components could significantly reduce our levels of production and sales or impair our profitability. Interruption of normal operations at our key manufacturing facilities may impair our production capabilities. Some of our key products, including hydrants, valves and ductile iron pipe, are manufactured at large manufacturing facilities. The operations at our major manufacturing facilities may be impaired by various operating risks, including, but not limited to: · catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, floods, earthquakes or other similar occurrences; · interruptions in raw materials and energy supply; · adverse government regulation; · breakdowns or equipment failures; · violations of our permit requirements or revocation of permits; · releases of pollutants and hazardous substances to air, soil, surface water or groundwater; · shortages of equipment or spare parts; and · labor disputes. To date, we have successfully managed non-material occurrences of the foregoing events without significant disruption of our operations. More acute occurrences of these events could cause a decrease in, 17 or the elimination of, the revenues generated by our key facilities or a substantial increase in the costs of operating such facilities that, in turn, could, impair our cash flows and results of operations. We may be unsuccessful in identifying or integrating suitable acquisitions, which could impair our growth. A part of our growth strategy depends on the availability of acquisition candidates with businesses that can be successfully integrated into our existing business and that will provide us with complementary manufacturing capabilities, products or services. However, we may be unable to identify targets that will be suitable for acquisition. In addition, if we identify a suitable acquisition candidate, our ability to successfully implement the acquisition will depend on a variety of factors, including our ability to finance the acquisition. Our ability to finance our acquisitions is subject to a number of factors, including the availability of adequate cash from operations or of acceptable financing terms and the terms of our debt instruments. In addition, there are many challenges to integrating acquired companies and businesses in our company, including eliminating redundant operations, facilities and systems, coordinating management and personnel, retaining key employees, managing different corporate cultures and achieving cost reductions and cross-selling opportunities. We may not be able to meet these challenges in the future. Businesses we have acquired or will acquire may not perform as expected. Businesses we have recently acquired or may acquire in the future may not perform as expected. Acquired businesses may perform below expectations after the acquisition for various reasons, including legislative or regulatory changes that affect the areas in which a business specializes, the loss of key customers after the acquisition has closed, general economic factors that affect a business in a direct way and the cultural incompatibility of an acquired management team with us. Any of these factors could impair our results of operations. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, and we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. As of September 30, 2006, goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets were approximately $865.5 million and $835.4 million, respectively (or approximately 57% of our total assets). Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets of the Company were recorded at fair value on the date of acquisition and goodwill of U.S. Pipe remains at historical cost. In accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, are reviewed at least annually for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in our performance, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of or affect the products and services sold by our business, and a variety of other factors. The amount of any quantified impairment must be expensed immediately as a charge to results of operations. Depending on future circumstances, it is possible that we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. Any future determination of impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets would result in a non-cash impairment charge. We have a significant amount of debt. As of September 30, 2006, our total debt was $1,127.3 million. We may incur significant additional indebtedness from time to time. The level of our indebtedness could have important consequences, including: · making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our debt instruments; · limiting cash flow available for general corporate purposes, including capital expenditures and acquisitions, because a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to servicing our debt; 18 · limiting our ability to obtain additional debt financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions; · limiting our flexibility to react to competitive and other changes in our industry and economic conditions generally; and · exposing us to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations because a substantial portion of our borrowings is at variable rates of interest, which could result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates. We will require a significant amount of cash to service our debt and our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to pay or to refinance our indebtedness will depend upon our future operating performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, business and other factors beyond our control. There is a risk that our business will not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that currently anticipated revenue growth and operating improvements will not be realized or that future borrowings will not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations or fund our other liquidity needs, we could attempt to restructure or refinance our indebtedness or seek additional equity capital, but we may not be able to accomplish those actions on satisfactory terms, if at all. Restrictive covenants in our debt instruments may limit our ability to engage in certain transactions and may diminish our ability to make payments on our indebtedness. Our debt instruments contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in certain transactions. Our senior credit facilities also require the maintenance of specified financial ratios and the satisfaction of other financial condition tests. In addition, our debt instruments require us to provide regular financial information to our lenders and bondholders. Such requirements generally may be satisfied by our timely filing with the SEC of annual and quarterly reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Our ability to satisfy those financial ratios, tests or covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and there is a risk that we will not meet those tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our debt instruments. If an event of default is not remedied after the delivery of notice of default and lapse of any relevant grace period, the holders of our debt would be able to declare it immediately due and payable. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our senior credit facilities, the lenders could also terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the indebtedness under our senior credit facilities. We have pledged substantially all of our assets (including our intellectual property), other than the assets of our foreign subsidiaries, as security under our senior credit facilities. If the lenders under our senior credit facilities or noteholders of the notes accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay our senior credit facilities and our other indebtedness, which could negatively impact the value of our stock and our ability to operate as a going concern. Certain of our brass valve products may not be in compliance with NSF standards, which could limit the ability of municipalities to buy our products. The National Sanitary Foundation (NSF) is a non-profit entity that was contracted by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to promulgate standards for the water industry. NSF has issued NSF 61, which governs the leaching characteristics of valves and devices that are part of drinking water distribution networks, including certain of our products made from brass. In recent years, a growing majority of states have adopted, by statute or regulation, a requirement that water distribution systems 19 utilize products that comply with NSF 61 and/or are certified as NSF 61 compliant. We, along with others in the industry, are engaged in the lengthy process of attempting to obtain certification of NSF 61 compliance for all of our relevant products. Our sales of brass valve products were approximately 6% our 2006 sales. To date we have obtained certification of approximately 95% of our brass valve and fitting products. Approximately 26% of our certified products use “low lead” brass to comply with current NSF 61 requirements. We intend to have a certified version of all brass products after completion of the closure of the Mueller segment’s James Jones facility and subsequent transfer of production to the Decatur, Illinois facility. In the event that some of our brass valve products are found not to be in compliance with NSF 61, those products may not be accepted by various municipalities or we may be forced to modify non-conforming products with substitute materials which may require increased cost, thereby impairing our profitability. In addition, if our competitors develop a complete line of NSF 61 compliant brass valve products before we do, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage which may, in turn, impair our profitability. Our business may be harmed by work stoppages and other labor relations matters. We are subject to a risk of work stoppages and other labor relations matters because our hourly workforce is highly unionized. As of September 30, 2006, approximately 84% of our hourly workforce was represented by unions. These employees are represented by locals from approximately six different unions, including the Glass, Molders, Pottery, Plastics and Allied Workers International Union, which is our largest union. Our labor agreements will be negotiated as they expire at various times through September 2010. Work stoppages for an extended period of time could impair our business. Labor costs are a significant element of the total expenditures involved in our manufacturing process, and an increase in the costs of labor could therefore harm our business. In addition, the freight companies who deliver our products to our distributors generally use unionized truck drivers, and our business could suffer if our contractors face work stoppages or increased labor costs. Our revenues are influenced by weather conditions and the level of construction activity at different times of the year; we may not be able to generate revenues that are sufficient to cover our expenses during certain periods of the year. Some of our products, including ductile iron pipe, are moderately seasonal, with lower sales in the winter months. This seasonality in demand has resulted in fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. Because much of our overhead and expenses are fixed payments, seasonal trends can cause reductions in our profit margin and financial condition, especially during our slower periods. We may be subject to product liability or warranty claims that could require us to make significant payments. We would be exposed to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. There is a risk that we will experience product liability or warranty losses in the future or that we will incur significant costs to defend such claims. Such losses and costs may be material. While we currently have product liability insurance, our product liability insurance coverage may not be adequate for any liabilities that may ultimately be incurred or the coverage may not continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. A successful claim brought against us in excess of our available insurance coverage could require us to make significant payments or a requirement to participate in a product recall may harm our reputation or profitability. We rely on Tyco to indemnify us for certain liabilities and there is a risk that Tyco may become unable or fail to fulfill its obligations. Under the terms of the purchase agreement (the “Tyco Purchase Agreement”) relating to the August 1999 sale by Tyco International Ltd. (“Tyco”) of the Mueller and Anvil businesses to our prior 20 owners, we are indemnified by Tyco for all liabilities arising in connection with the operation of these businesses prior to their sale by Tyco, including with respect to products manufactured or sold prior to the closing of that transaction. The indemnity survives forever and is not subject to any dollar limits. In the past, Tyco has made substantial payments and/or assumed defense of claims pursuant to this indemnification provision. However, we may be responsible for these liabilities in the event that Tyco ever becomes financially unable or fails to comply with, the terms of the indemnity. In addition, Tyco’s indemnity does not cover product liabilities to the extent caused by our products manufactured after that transaction. On January 14, 2006, Tyco’s board of directors announced that it approved a plan to separate Tyco into three separate, publicly traded companies. At this time, we do not know which of the new entities will assume the indemnity provided under the terms of the Tyco Purchase Agreement if this plan is implemented. Should the entity or entities that assume Tyco’s obligations under the Tyco Purchase Agreement ever become financially unable or fail to comply with the terms of the indemnity, we may be responsible for such obligations or liabilities. For more information, see “Item 3—Legal Proceedings.” Environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could subject us to liability for fines, clean-ups and other damages, require us to incur significant costs to modify our operations and increase our manufacturing costs. We are subject to various laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety and must incur capital and other expenditures to comply with these requirements. Failure to comply with any environmental, health or safety requirements could result in the assessment of damages, or imposition of penalties, suspension of production, a required upgrade or change to equipment or processes or a cessation of operations at one or more of our facilities. Because these laws are complex, constantly changing and may be applied retroactively, there is a risk that these requirements, in particular as they change in the future, may impair our business, profitability and results of operations. In addition, we will be required to incur costs to comply with the EPA’s National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP) for iron and steel foundries and for our foundries’ painting operations. These costs may be substantial. See “Item 1—Business—Environmental Matters.” We may be required to conduct investigations and perform remedial activities that could require us to incur material costs in the future. Our operations involve the use of hazardous substances and the disposal of hazardous wastes. We may incur costs to manage these substances and wastes and may be subject to claims for damage for personal injury, property damages or damage to natural resources. Our U.S. Pipe segment has been identified as a potentially responsible party liable under federal environmental laws for a portion of the clean-up costs with regard to two sites, one in Alabama and one in California, and is currently subject to an administrative consent order requiring certain monitoring and clean-up with regard to its Burlington, New Jersey facility. Such clean-up costs could be substantial and could have a negative effect on our profitability and cash flows in any given reporting period. As described in the immediately preceding risk factor, we rely on Tyco to indemnify us for certain liabilities and there is a risk that Tyco may become unable or fail to fulfill its obligation. For more information about our environmental compliance and potential environmental liabilities, see “Item 1—Business—Environmental Matters.” Compliance with the securities laws and regulations is likely to make it more difficult and expensive for us to obtain directors and officers liability insurance and to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors. We expect the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the rules and regulations subsequently implemented by the SEC and the PCAOB to make it more difficult and expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These new rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain 21 qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and executive officers. We may not be able to achieve the anticipated synergies in connection with our integration and rationalization plans. We are pursuing several initiatives designed to rationalize our manufacturing facilities and to use our manufacturing expertise to reduce our costs. In fiscal 2006, we achieved integration synergies between our Mueller and U.S. Pipe segments by closing the U.S. Pipe Chattanooga, Tennessee production facility and integrating it into the Mueller Chattanooga and Albertville, Alabama production facilities. We have initiated the implementation of plant and distribution combination and production efficiency strategies within our Mueller and Anvil segments, which efforts will continue through fiscal years 2007 and the beginning of 2008. Our Mueller segment sales force has begun to integrate U.S. Pipe products as complementary product offerings as part of their sales efforts. We also have begun to use our combined purchasing leverage to reduce raw material and overall product costs. If we fail to implement our integration and rationalization plans at the economic levels or within the time periods expected, we may not be able to achieve the projected levels of synergies and cost savings. In addition, we expect to incur substantial severance, environmental and impairment costs in connection with our integration and rationalization plans. We are a holding company and may not have access to the cash flow and other assets of our subsidiaries. We are a holding company that has no operations of our own and derives all of our revenues and cash flow from our subsidiaries. The terms of the indentures governing our senior discount notes and senior subordinated notes and our senior credit facilities significantly restrict our subsidiaries from paying dividends and otherwise transferring assets to us. Furthermore, our subsidiaries are permitted under the terms of our senior credit facilities and other indebtedness to incur additional indebtedness that may severely restrict or prohibit the making of distributions, the payment of dividends or the making of loans by such subsidiaries to us. A breach of any of those covenants would be a default under the applicable debt instrument that would permit the holders thereof to declare all amounts due thereunder immediately payable. As a result, we may not have access to our subsidiaries’ cash flow to finance our cash needs. If we fail to protect our intellectual property, our business and ability to compete could suffer. Our business depends upon our technology and know-how, which is largely developed internally. While we believe that none of our operating units is substantially dependent on any single patent, trademark, copyright, or other form of intellectual property, we rely on a combination of patent protection, copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets protection, employee and third party confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. There is a risk that the measures that we take to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to deter infringement or misappropriation or independent third-party development of our technology or to prevent an unauthorized third party from obtaining or using information or intellectual property that we regard as proprietary or to keep others from using brand names similar to our own. The disclosure, misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property could harm our ability to protect our rights and our competitive position In addition, our actions to enforce our rights may result in substantial costs and diversion of management and other resources. We may also be subject to intellectual property infringement claims from time to time, which may result in our incurring additional expenses and diverting company resources to respond to these claims. 22 If transportation for our ductile iron pipe products becomes unavailable or uneconomic for our customers, our ability to sell ductile iron pipe products would suffer. Transportation costs are a critical factor in a customer’s purchasing decision. Increases in transportation costs could make our ductile iron pipe products less competitive with the same or alternative products from competitors with lower transportation costs. We typically depend upon rail, barge and trucking systems to deliver our products to customers. While our customers typically arrange and pay for transportation from our factory to the point of use, disruption of these transportation services because of weather-related problems, strikes, lock-outs or other events could temporarily impair our ability to supply our products to our customers thereby resulting in lost sales and reduced profitability. Risks Relating to our Relationship with Walter Industries We may have substantial additional liability for federal income tax allegedly owed by Walter. Each member of a consolidated group for federal income tax purposes is severally liable for the federal income tax liability of each other member of the consolidated group for any year in which it is a member of the group at any time during such year. Each member of the Walter controlled group, which included the Company (including our subsidiaries) through December 14, 2006, is also jointly and severally liable for pension and benefit funding and termination liabilities of other group members, as well as certain benefit plan taxes. Accordingly, the Company could be liable under such provisions in the event any such liability is incurred, and not discharged, by any other member of the Walter consolidated or controlled group for any period during which the Company was included in the Walter consolidated or controlled group. A dispute exists with regard to federal income taxes allegedly owed by the Walter consolidated group for fiscal years 1980 through 1994 and 1999 through 2001. It is estimated that the amount of tax presently claimed by the IRS is approximately $34.0 million for issues currently in dispute in bankruptcy court and $80.4 million for the 1999 through 2001 period, each of which is for matters unrelated to the Company. These amounts are subject to interest and penalties. However, Walter has advised the Company that its tax filing positions have substantial merit and intends to defend vigorously any claims asserted. Walter believes that it has accruals sufficient to cover the estimated probable loss, including interest and penalties. The tax allocation agreement between the Company and Walter gives Walter control over our pre-IPO taxes and allocates to us certain tax risks associated with the spin-off of our Series B common stock. Walter effectively controlled all of our tax decisions for periods during which we were a member of the Walter consolidated federal income tax group and certain combined, consolidated or unitary state and local income tax groups. Under the terms of the income tax allocation agreement between Walter and the Company dated as of May 26, 2006 Walter had sole authority to respond to and conduct all tax proceedings (including tax audits) relating to our federal income and combined state returns, to file all such returns on behalf of us and to determine the amount of our liability to (or entitlement to payment from) Walter for such periods. This arrangement may result in conflicts of interests between the Company and Walter. In addition, the tax allocation agreement provides that if the spin-off of our Series B common stock by Walter is determined not to be tax-free pursuant to Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, the Company generally will be responsible for any taxes incurred by Walter or its stockholders if such taxes result from certain of our actions or omissions and for a percentage of any such taxes that are not a result of our actions or omissions or Walter’s actions or omissions taxes based upon our market value relative to Walter’s market value. 23 Because we have limited experience operating as a stand-alone entity, our future business prospects are difficult to evaluate and our business could suffer as a result of the separation of our business from Walter. As of the close of business on December 14, 2006, Walter distributed all of its holding of our Series B common stock to Walter shareholders, thus making the Company a stand-alone entity. Our operations as a stand-alone entity may place significant demands on our management, operational, and technical resources. Our future performance will depend on our ability to function as a stand-alone entity and on our ability to finance and manage expanding operations and to adapt our information systems to changes in its business. We rely on contractual arrangements, including the transition services agreement between Walter and the Company dated as of May 26, 2006, that require Walter and its affiliates to provide or procure certain critical transitional services and shared arrangements to us such as: · certain tax and accounting services; · certain human resources services, including benefit plan administration; · communications systems; · insurance; and · supply arrangements. After the termination of these arrangements, we may not be able to replace these services and arrangements in a timely manner or on terms and conditions, including service levels and cost, as favorable as those we have received from Walter and its affiliates. There is a risk that our separation from Walter will not be successful, which could significantly impair our business, our results and our financial reporting ability. Furthermore, the financial information included in this document may not necessarily reflect what the operating results and financial condition would have been had we been a separate, stand-alone entity during the periods presented or be indicative of our future operating results and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 24 