Item 1A. Risk factors Risks associated with our business We are a development-stage company with no operating history and, accordingly, our stockholders will not have any basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a recently incorporated development-stage company with no operating results to date. We will not generate any revenue (other than interest income on the proceeds of our public offering) until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. Due to our limited operating history, our stockholders have no basis to evaluate our business objective, which is to acquire an operating business. If we are forced to liquidate before a business combination, our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to liquidate the trust account, there will be no distribution with respect to our outstanding warrants and, accordingly, the warrants will expire worthless. 12 If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per-share liquidation value receivable by our public stockholders from the trust account as part of our plan of dissolution and liquidation will be less than $10.00 per share. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all vendors, prospective target businesses or other entities with which we execute agreements waive any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements, or even if they execute such agreements that they would be prevented from bringing claims against the trust account including, but not limited to, claims alleging fraudulent inducement, breach of fiduciary responsibility or other similar claims, as well as claims challenging the enforceability of the waiver, in each case in order to gain an advantage with a claim against our assets, including the funds held in the trust account. If any third party refused to execute an agreement waiving such claims to the monies held in the trust account, we would perform an analysis of the alternatives available to us if we chose not to engage such third party and evaluate if such engagement would be in the best interest of our stockholders if such third party refused to waive such claims. Examples of possible instances where we may engage a third party that refused to execute a waiver include the engagement of a third party consultant whose particular expertise or skills are believed by management to be significantly superior to those of other consultants that would agree to execute a waiver or in cases where management is unable to find a provider of required services willing to provide the waiver. In any event, our management would perform an analysis of the alternatives available to it and would only enter into an agreement with a third party that did not execute a waiver if management believed that such third party’s engagement would be significantly more beneficial to us than any alternative. In addition, there is no guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims that could take priority over the claims of our public stockholders and the per-share liquidation value receivable by our public stockholders could be less than the $10.00 per share held in the trust account, plus interest (net of any taxes due on such interest, which taxes, if any, shall be paid from the trust account), due to claims of such creditors. If we are unable to complete a business combination and dissolve the company, each of our officers and directors will be personally liable to the extent of their pro rata beneficial interest in our company immediately prior to the public offering, if we did not obtain a valid and enforceable waiver from any vendor, prospective target business or other entity of any rights or claims by such creditors to the trust account, to ensure that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced by the claims of various vendors, prospective target businesses or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or products sold to us, to the extent necessary to ensure that such claims do not reduce the amount in the trust account. Prior to the public offering, six of our directors and officers collectively owned on a beneficial basis all of our outstanding shares of common stock. Based on information we have obtained from such individuals, we currently believe that such persons are of substantial means and capable of funding a shortfall in our trust account, even though we have not asked them to reserve for such an eventuality. However, we cannot assure you that our directors will be able to satisfy those obligations. We believe the likelihood of our directors having to indemnify the trust account is limited because we will endeavor to have all vendors and prospective target businesses as well as other entities execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to monies held in the trust account. We also will have access to any funds available outside the trust account or released to us to fund working capital requirements with which to pay any such potential claims (including costs and expenses incurred in connection with our plan of dissolution and liquidation currently estimated at approximately $50,000 to $75,000). The indemnification provisions are set forth in the insider letters, dated as of June 6, 2006, executed by each of our officers and directors. The insider letters specifically set forth that in the event we obtain a valid and enforceable waiver of any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our stockholders from a vendor, prospective target business or other entity, the indemnification will not be available. In the event that our board recommends and our stockholders approve a plan of dissolution and liquidation where it is subsequently determined that the reserve for claims and liabilities is insufficient, stockholders who received a return of funds from our trust account as part of its liquidation could be liable for claims made by creditors. Additionally, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, the funds held in our trust account will be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public stockholders the liquidation amounts due them. We will dissolve and liquidate if we do not consummate a business combination and our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. We will dissolve and liquidate our trust account to our public stockholders if we do not complete a business combination within 18 months after the consummation of our public offering (or within 24 months after the consummation of the public offering if certain extension criteria are satisfied). Under Sections 280 through 282 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. If a corporation complies with certain procedures intended to ensure that it makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. Although we will seek stockholder approval to liquidate the trust account to our public stockholders as part of our plan of dissolution and liquidation, we do not intend to comply with those procedures. In the event that our board of directors recommends and the stockholders approve a plan of dissolution and liquidation where it is subsequently determined that the reserve for claims and liabilities was insufficient, stockholders who received a return of funds could be liable for claims made by creditors. As such, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution and any such liability of our stockholders will likely extend beyond the third anniversary of such dissolution. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our stockholders amounts owed to them by us. 13 The procedures we must follow under Delaware law and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation if we dissolve and liquidate may result in substantial delays in the liquidation of our trust account to our public stockholders as part of our plan of dissolution and distribution. Pursuant to, among other documents, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, if we do not complete a business combination within 18 months after the consummation of our public offering, or within 24 months after the consummation of the public offering if the extension criteria have been satisfied, we will be required to dissolve, liquidate and wind up in compliance with the provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law. In addition, in the event we seek stockholder approval for a plan of dissolution and distribution and do not obtain such approval, we will nonetheless continue to pursue stockholder approval for our dissolution. The funds held in our trust account may not be distributed except upon our dissolution and, unless and until such approval is obtained from our stockholders, the funds held in our trust account will not be released. Consequently, holders of a majority of our outstanding stock must approve our dissolution in order to receive the funds held in our trust account and the funds will not be available for any other corporate purpose. The procedures required for us to liquidate under the Delaware General Corporation Law, or a vote to reject any plan of dissolution and distribution by our stockholders, may result in substantial delays in the liquidation of our trust account to our public stockholders as part of our plan of dissolution and distribution. If we do not consummate a business combination and dissolve, payments from the trust account to our public stockholders may be delayed. We currently believe that any plan of dissolution and liquidation subsequent to the expiration of the 18 and 24 month deadlines would proceed in approximately the following manner: · our board of directors will, consistent with its obligations described in our charter to dissolve, prior to the passing of such deadline, convene and adopt a specific plan of dissolution and distribution, which it will then vote to recommend to its stockholders; at such time it will also cause to be prepared a preliminary proxy statement setting out such plan of dissolution and distribution and the board’s recommendation of such plan; · upon such deadline, we would file the preliminary proxy statement with the SEC; · if the SEC does not review the preliminary proxy statement, then approximately ten days following the passing of such deadline, we will mail the proxy statement to our stockholders, and approximately 30 days following the passing of such deadline we will convene a meeting of our stockholders at which they will either approve or reject the plan of dissolution and distribution; and · if the SEC does review the preliminary proxy statement, we estimate that we will receive the SEC’s comments approximately 30 days following the passing of such deadline. We will mail the proxy statements to our stockholders following the conclusion of the comment and review process (the length of which cannot be predicted with certainty), and we will convene a meeting of our stockholders at which they will either approve or reject our plan of dissolution and distribution. In the event we seek stockholder approval for a plan of dissolution and liquidation and do not obtain such approval, we will nonetheless continue to pursue stockholder approval for our dissolution. Pursuant to the terms of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our powers following the expiration of the permitted time periods for consummating a business combination will automatically thereafter be limited to acts and activities relating to dissolving and winding up our affairs, including liquidation. The funds held in our trust account may not be distributed except upon our dissolution and, unless and until such approval is obtained from our stockholders, the funds held in our trust account will not be released. Consequently, holders of a majority of our outstanding stock must approve our dissolution in order to receive the funds held in our trust account and the funds will not be available for any other corporate purpose. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides for mandatory liquidation of the Company, without stockholder approval, in the event that we do not consummate a business combination by July 21, 2008, which raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 has included a qualification in its audit report referring to our mandatory liquidation if a business combination is not consummated by July 21, 2008. On December 3, 2007, the we executed a definitive agreement to acquire certain operating assets. This transaction is subject to various closing conditions, including the approval of the our stockholders, the preparation and execution of definitive transaction documents, the preparation of audited financial statements of the entities to be acquired, and compliance with various securities laws and regulations. If we are not able to consummate this transaction by July 21, 2008, we will dissolve and liquidate. 14 The procedures required for us to liquidate under the Delaware law, or a vote to reject any plan of dissolution and liquidation by our stockholders, may result in substantial delays in the liquidation of our trust account to our public stockholders as part of our plan of dissolution and liquidation. We may choose to redeem our outstanding warrants at a time that is disadvantageous to our warrant holders. Subject to there being a current prospectus under the Securities Act of 1933 with respect to the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants, we may redeem the warrants issued as a part of our units at any time after the warrants become exercisable in whole and not in part, at a price of $.01 per warrant, upon a minimum of 30 days’ prior written notice of redemption, if and only if, the last sales price of our common stock equals or exceeds $14.25 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period ending three business days before we send the notice of redemption. Redemption of the warrants could force the warrant holders (i) to exercise the warrants and pay the exercise price therefore at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so, (ii) to sell the warrants at the then current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants, or (iii) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants. Although we are required to use our best efforts to have an effective registration statement covering the issuance of the shares underlying the warrants at the time that our warrant holders exercise their warrants, we cannot guarantee that a registration statement will be effective, in which case our warrant holders may not be able to exercise our warrants. Holders of our warrants will be able to exercise the warrants only if (i) a current registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 relating to the shares of our common stock underlying the warrants is then effective and (ii) such shares are qualified for sale or exempt from qualification under the applicable securities laws of the states in which the various holders of warrants reside. Although we have undertaken in the Warrant Agreement, and therefore have a contractual obligation, to use our best efforts to maintain a current registration statement covering the shares underlying the warrants to the extent required by federal securities laws, and we intend to comply with such undertaking, we cannot assure that we will be able to do so. In addition, we have agreed to use our reasonable efforts to register the shares underlying the warrants under the blue sky laws of the states of residence of the exercising warrantholders, to the extent an exemption is not available. The value of the warrants may be greatly reduced if a registration statement covering the shares issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not kept current or if the securities are not qualified, or exempt from qualification, in the states in which the holders of warrants reside. Holders of warrants who reside in jurisdictions in which the shares underlying the warrants are not qualified and in which there is no exemption will be unable to exercise their warrants and would either have to sell their warrants in the open market or allow them to expire unexercised. If and when the warrants become redeemable by us, we may exercise our redemption right even if we are unable to qualify the underlying securities for sale under all applicable state securities laws. Because the units sold in the Regulation S private placement were originally issued pursuant to an exemption from registration requirements under the federal securities laws, the holders of the warrants contained in such units will be able to exercise their warrants even if, at the time of exercise, a prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants is not current. As a result, the holders of the warrants purchased in the Regulation S private placement will not have any restrictions with respect to the exercise of their warrants. As described above, the holders of the warrants purchased in the public offering will not be able to exercise them unless we have a current registration statement covering the shares issuable upon their exercise. We may issue shares of our capital stock or debt securities to complete a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. We may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: · may significantly reduce the equity interest of our existing stockholders; · will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and most likely also result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and 15 · may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Additionally, the energy industry is capital intensive, traditionally using substantial amounts of indebtedness to finance acquisitions, capital expenditures and working capital needs. If we finance any acquisitions through the issuance of debt securities, it could result in: · default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating cash flow after a business combination were insufficient to pay our debt obligations; · acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due if the debt security contained covenants that required the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves and any such covenant were breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; · our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security was payable on demand; and · our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contained covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security was outstanding. Our officers and directors control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring stockholder vote. Our officers and directors (and their nominees) beneficially own approximately 22.4% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock, which could permit them to effectively influence the outcome of all matters requiring approval by our stockholders at such time, including the approval of our initial business combination, and, following such business combination, the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Furthermore, our board of directors is divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. It is unlikely that there will be an annual meeting of stockholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of a business combination, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office at least until the consummation of the business combination. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of our “staggered” board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election and our existing stockholders, because of their ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome. Accordingly, our existing stockholders will continue to exert control at least until the consummation of a business combination. We will be dependent upon interest earned on the trust account to fund our search for a target company and consummation of a business combination. We are dependent upon sufficient interest being earned on the proceeds held in the trust account to provide us with the additional working capital we will need to search for a target company and consummate a business combination. While we are entitled to up to $3,430,111 of the interest earned on the trust account, if interest rates were to decline substantially, we may not have sufficient funds available to complete a business combination. In such event, we would need to borrow funds from our insiders or others or be forced to liquidate. Our ability to effect a business combination and to be successful afterward will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, some of whom may join us following a business combination and whom we would have only a limited ability to evaluate. It is also possible that our current officers and directors will resign upon the consummation of a business combination. Our ability to effect a business combination will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. The future role of our key personnel following a business combination, however, cannot presently be fully ascertained. Although we expect several of our management and other key personnel, particularly our President and Chief Operating Officer, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, to remain associated with us following a business combination, we may employ other personnel following the business combination. Moreover, our current management will only be able to remain with the combined company after the consummation of a business combination if they are able to negotiate and agree to mutually acceptable employment terms as part of any such combination, which terms would be disclosed to stockholders in any proxy statement relating to such transaction. If we acquired a target business in an all-cash transaction, it would be more likely that current members of management would remain with the combined company if they chose to do so. If a business combination were structured as a merger whereby the stockholders of the target company were to control the combined company following a business combination, it may be less likely that our current management would remain with the combined company unless it was negotiated as part of the transaction via the acquisition agreement, an employment agreement or other arrangement. In making the determination as to whether current management should remain with us following the business combination, management will analyze the experience and skill set of the target business’ management and negotiate as part of the business combination that certain members of current management remain if it is believed that it is in the best interests of the combined company post-business combination. If management negotiates such retention as a condition to any potential business combination, management may look unfavorably upon or reject a business combination with a potential target business whose owners refuse to retain members of our management post-business combination, thereby resulting in a conflict of interest. While we intend to closely scrutinize any additional individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company as well as United States securities laws which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such laws. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues which may adversely affect our operations. 16 None of our officers or directors has ever been associated with a blank check company which could adversely affect our ability to consummate a business combination. None of our officers or directors has ever been associated with a blank check company. Accordingly, you may not have sufficient information with which to evaluate the ability of our management team to identify and complete a business combination using the proceeds of the public offering and the Regulation S private placement. Our management’s lack of experience in operating a blank check company could adversely affect our ability to consummate a business combination and force us to liquidate. If we seek to effect a business combination with an entity that is directly or indirectly affiliated with one or more of our existing stockholders, conflicts of interest could arise. Our existing stockholders either currently have or may in the future have affiliations with companies in the energy and energy related industries. If we were to seek a business combination with a target company with which one or more of our existing stockholders is affiliated, conflicts of interest could arise in connection with negotiating the terms of and completing the business combination. If conflicts arise, they may not necessarily be resolved in our favor. Our officers and directors may allocate their time to other businesses thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. All of our executive officers are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours per week to our affairs. If our executive officers’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with entities, including other “blank check” companies, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. Additionally, our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as the other entities with which they are or may be affiliated. Further, certain of our officers and directors are currently involved in other businesses that are similar to the business activities that we intend to conduct following a business combination. Due to these existing affiliations, they may have fiduciary obligations to present potential business opportunities to those entities prior to presenting them to us which could cause additional conflicts of interest. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. For a complete discussion of our management’s business affiliations and the potential conflicts of interest that you should be aware of, see the sections below entitled “Management — Directors and Executive Officers” and “Management — Conflicts of Interest.” We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. 17 Certain of our stockholders, including our officers and directors, beneficially own shares of our common stock that will not participate in liquidation distributions and, therefore, they may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination. Certain of our stockholders, including our officers and directors, who beneficially own shares of our common stock (which were issued prior to the public offering), have waived their right to receive distributions with respect to those shares upon our liquidation if we fail to complete a business combination. Additionally, Energy Corp., an off-shore company controlled by Mr. George Sagredos, our President and Chief Operating Officer, has agreed to waive its right to liquidation distributions with respect to the shares included in units it purchased in the Regulation S private placement. Similarly, the holder of the convertible loans has agreed to waive such right to liquidation distributions with respect to the shares issuable upon its conversion. The shares and warrants beneficially owned by our officers and directors and their affiliates will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. Accordingly, the personal and financial interests of our officers and directors may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination timely. Consequently, our directors’ and officers’ discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest. Our existing stockholders will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the amount outside of the trust account unless the business combination is consummated and therefore they may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination and in the public stockholders’ best interest. Certain of our stockholders, including all of our officers and directors, will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the available proceeds not deposited in the trust account and the portion of the interest on the trust account released to us (which, because interest rates are unknown, may be insufficient to fund all of our working capital requirements) unless the business combination is consummated. The financial interest of our officers and directors could influence their motivation in selecting a target business and thus, there may be a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in the stockholders’ best interest. For instance, our existing stockholders may, as part of any such combination, negotiate the repayment of some or all of their out-of-pocket expenses in excess of the amount not placed in the trust account, which if not agreed to by the target business’ owners, could cause our management to view such potential business combination unfavorably, thereby resulting in a conflict of interest. It is probable that our initial business combination will be with a single target business, which may cause us to be solely dependent on a single business and a limited number of services. Our initial business combination must be with a business or businesses with a collective fair market value of at least 80% of the amount held in the trust account (excluding any funds held for the benefit of the underwriters and Maxim Group LLC) at the time of such acquisition. We may not be able to acquire more than one target business because of various factors, including possible complex accounting issues, which would include generating pro forma financial statements reflecting the operations of several target businesses as if they had been combined, and numerous logistical issues, which could include attempting to coordinate the timing of negotiations, proxy statement disclosure and closings with multiple target businesses. In addition, we would also be exposed to the risk that conditions to closings with respect to the acquisition of one or more of the target businesses would not be satisfied bringing the fair market value of the initial business combination below the required fair market value of 80% of the amount in the trust account threshold. Accordingly, while it is possible that we may attempt to effect our initial business combination with more than one target business, we are more likely to choose a single target business if deciding between one target business meeting such 80% threshold and comparable multiple target business candidates collectively meeting the 80% threshold. Consequently, it is probable that, unless the purchase price consists substantially of our equity, we will have the ability to complete only the initial business combination with the proceeds of our public offering and the Regulation S private placement. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be: · solely dependent upon the performance of a single business, or · dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of processes or services. In this case, we will not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. 18 Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, we may not be able to consummate an attractive business combination. We expect to encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds and operating businesses competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe that there are numerous potential target businesses that we could acquire with the net proceeds of the public offering offering, our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Further, the obligation we have to seek stockholder approval of a business combination may delay the consummation of a transaction, and our obligation to redeem for cash up to 29.99% of the total number of shares of common stock sold in our public offering and the Regulation S private placement in certain instances will limit the manner in which we can structure a business combination (i.e. we will not be able to undertake an all cash acquisition) and may reduce the resources available to us for such purpose, as well as for funding a target company’s business. Additionally, our outstanding warrants, and the future dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular business combination. If the net proceeds of the public offering prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination or the depletion of the available net proceeds not held in trust (including interest earned on the trust account released to us) in search of a target business, or because we become obligated to redeem for cash a significant number of shares from dissenting stockholders, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, it is possible that we could use a portion of the funds not in the trust account (including amounts we borrowed, if any) to make a deposit, down payment or fund a “no-shop” provision with respect to a particular proposed business combination, although we do not have any current intention to do so. In the event that we were ultimately required to forfeit such funds, if such payment was large enough and we had already used up the funds allocated to due diligence and related expenses in connection with the aborted transaction, we could be left with insufficient funds to continue searching for, or conduct due diligence with respect to, other potential target businesses. If we were unable to secure additional financing, we would most likely fail to consummate a business combination in the allotted time and would dissolve and liquidate the trust account as part of our plan of dissolution and liquidation. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or existing stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. Risks associated with our acquisition of a target business in the energy industry The energy industry is highly competitive. The production, refining, terminalling and transportation industries are highly competitive. There is strong competition, both within the production and refining of energy industries and with other related industries, in supplying the fuel needs of commerce, industry and the home. Competition puts pressure on product prices, affects oil products marketing and requires continuous management focus on reducing unit costs and improving efficiency. Many of our competitors are fully integrated companies engaged on a national and/or international basis in many segments of the energy industry, on scales that may be much larger than ours. Large oil companies, because of the diversity and integration of their operations, larger capitalization and greater resources, may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions, compete on the basis of price, and more readily obtain oil, gas and petrochemicals in times of shortages. 19 The price volatility of crude oil depends upon many factors that are beyond our control and could adversely affect our profitability. If we consummate a business combination with a target company in the business of refining crude oil, we anticipate that our refining and marketing earnings, profitability and cash flows will depend on the margin above fixed and variable expenses (including the cost of refinery feedstock’s, such as crude oil) at which we are able to sell refined products. Refining margins historically have been volatile, and are likely to continue to be volatile, as a result of a variety of factors, including fluctuations in the prices of crude oil. Prices of crude oil, other feedstock’s and refined products depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including the supply of and demand for crude oil. Such supply and demand are affected by, among other things: · changes in global and local economic conditions; · domestic and foreign demand for fuel products, especially in the United States, China and India; · worldwide political conditions, particularly in significant oil-producing regions such as the Middle East, West Africa and Venezuela; · the level of foreign and domestic production of crude oil and refined products; · development and marketing of alternative and competing fuels; and · local factors, including market conditions, weather conditions and the level of operations of other refineries and pipelines in our markets. A large, rapid increase in crude oil prices would adversely affect our operating margins if the increased cost of raw materials could not be passed to our customers on a timely basis, and would adversely affect our sales volumes if consumption of refined products, particularly gasoline, were to decline as a result of such price increases. A sudden drop in crude oil prices would adversely affect our operating margins since wholesale prices typically decline promptly in response thereto, while we will be paying the higher crude oil prices until our crude supply at such higher prices is processed. The prices which we may obtain for our refined products are also affected by regional factors, such as local market conditions and the operations of competing refiners of petroleum products as well as seasonal factors influencing demand for such products. We may be subject to interruptions of supply as a result of relying on pipelines for transportation of crude oil and refined products. If we consummate a business combination with a target business in the refining industry, our refinery or refineries may rely heavily on pipelines to receive all or substantially all of its crude oil and we may deliver a substantial percentage of its refined products through pipelines. We could experience an interruption of supply or delivery, or an increased cost of receiving crude oil and delivering refined products to market, if the ability of these pipelines to transport crude oil or refined products is disrupted because of accidents, governmental regulation, terrorism, other third-party action or any of the types of events described in the preceding risk factor. Our prolonged inability to use any of the pipelines that we use to transport crude oil or refined products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we consummate a business combination with a target (business) in the refining industry, we may experience difficulties in marketing some of our products. Our ability to market the products of a target business we acquired may depend on: · obtaining the financing necessary to develop our feedstock, such as crude oil, to the point where production is available for sale; · the proximity, capacity and cost of pipelines and other facilities for the transportation of crude oil and refined products; · the quantity and quality of the refined products produced; and · the availability of viable purchasers willing to buy our refined products. If a business combination involves the ownership of vessels, such vessels could be arrested by maritime claimants, which could result in the interruption of business and have an adverse effect on revenue and profitability. Crew members, tort claimants, claimants for breach of certain maritime contracts, vessel mortgagees, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other persons may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages, and in many circumstances a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by “arresting” a vessel through court processes. Additionally, in certain jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest not only the vessel with respect to which the claimant’s lien has arisen, but also any “associated” vessel owned or controlled by the legal or beneficial owner of that vessel. If any vessel ultimately owned and operated by us is “arrested”, this could result in a material loss of revenues, or require us to pay substantial amounts to have the “arrest” lifted. 20 Governments could requisition vessels of a target company during a period of war or emergency, resulting in a loss of earnings. If we consummate a business combination with a target company in the transportation business, a government could requisition our vessels for title or hire. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes her owner, while requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes her charter at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during periods of war or emergency, although governments may elect to requisition vessels in other circumstances. Although a target company would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition of any of its vessels, the amount and timing of payment would be uncertain. If we experience a catastrophic loss and our insurance is not adequate to cover such loss, it could have a material adverse affect on our operations. If we consummate a business combination in the energy related industry and acquire ownership and operation of vessels, storage facilities and refineries our business could be affected by a number of risks, including mechanical failure, personal injury, loss or damage, business interruption due to political conditions in foreign countries, hostilities, labor strikes, adverse weather conditions and catastrophic disasters, including environmental accidents. All of these risks could result in liability, loss of revenues, increased costs and loss of reputation. We intend to maintain insurance, consistent with industry standards, against these risks on business assets we may acquire upon completion of a business combination. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately insure against all risks, that any particular claim will be paid out of our insurance, or that we will be able to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future. Our insurers will also require us to pay certain deductible amounts, before they will pay claims, and insurance policies may contain limitations and exclusions, which, although we believe will be standard for the energy industry, may nevertheless increase our costs and lower our profitability. Additionally, any increase in environmental and other regulations may also result in increased costs for, or the lack of availability of, insurance against the risks of environmental damage, pollution and other claims for damages that may be asserted against us. Our inability to obtain insurance sufficient to cover potential claims or the failure of insurers to pay any significant claims, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and operations. The dangers inherent in the production, refining, terminalling or transporting and storing of energy could cause disruptions and could expose us to potentially significant losses, costs or liabilities. If we consummate a business combination with a target business in the production, refining, terminalling or transportation of energy industry, our operations may be subject to significant hazards and risks inherent in refining operations and in transporting and storing crude oil, intermediate products and refined products. These hazards and risks include, but are not limited to, natural disasters, fires, explosions, pipeline ruptures and spills, third party interference and mechanical failure of equipment, any of which could result in production and distribution difficulties and disruptions, environmental pollution, personal injury or wrongful death claims and other damage to our properties and the properties of others. Any such event at a refining, terminalling or transportation facility could significantly disrupt our production and distribution of refined products, and any sustained disruption could have a material adverse effect on our acquired business, financial condition and results of operations. The energy industry is subject to intense governmental regulation. The energy industry is subject to regulation and intervention by governments throughout the world in such matters as exploration and production interests, environmental protection controls, controls over the development and decommissioning of a field (including restrictions on production) and, possibly, nationalization, expropriation, cancellation or non-renewal of contract rights. The energy industry is also subject to the payment of royalties and taxation, which tend to be high compared with those payable in respect of other commercial activities and operates in certain tax jurisdictions which have a degree of uncertainty relating to the interpretation of, and changes to, tax law. As a result of new laws and regulations or other factors, we could be required to curtail or cease certain operations. 21 We may incur significant costs in complying with environmental, safety and other governmental regulations and our failure to comply with these regulations could result in the imposition of penalties, fines and restrictions on our operations. The energy industry is subject to extensive and changing environmental protection, safety and other federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and treaties, compliance with which may entail significant expense, including expenses associated with changes in operating procedures. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with all laws, rules, regulations and treaties following a business combination. If we are unable to adhere to these requirements, it could result in the imposition of penalties and fines against us, and could also result in the imposition of restrictions on our business and operations. Furthermore, the costs of compliance also could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and operations. Our operations may harm the environment. We will attempt to conduct our activities in such a manner that there is no or minimum damage to the environment. However, risk could arise if we do not apply our resources to overcome the perceived trade-off between global access to energy and the protection or improvement of the natural environment. Inherent in our operations are hazards which require continual oversight and control. If we consummate a business combination, we may be engaged in transporting and refining materials with potential toxicity in the course of our business. There is a risk of loss of containment of hydrocarbons and other hazardous material at operating sites and during transportation. If operational risks materialized it could result in loss of life, damage to the environment or loss of production. Conservation measures and technological advances could reduce demand for oil and gas. Fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, increasing consumer demand for alternatives to oil and gas, technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices could reduce demand for oil and gas. We cannot predict the impact of the changing demand for oil and gas services and products, and any major changes may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Political instability could harm our business. We may target businesses that have operations in developing countries where political, economic and social transition is taking place. Some countries have experienced political instability, expropriation or nationalization of property, civil strife, strikes, acts of war and insurrections. Any of these conditions occurring could disrupt or terminate our operations, causing our operations to be curtailed or terminated in these areas or our production to decline and could cause us to incur additional costs. Our business is subject to foreign currency risks. Crude oil prices are generally set in U.S. dollars while sales of refined products may be in a variety of currencies. If we consummate a business combination with a target business with operations outside of the United States, our business will be subject to foreign currency risks. These risks include · difficulty in converting local currencies to U.S. dollars; and · the market for conversion of local currency into other currencies may deteriorate or cease to exist. Fluctuation in exchange rates can therefore give rise to foreign exchange exposures. We may re-incorporate in another jurisdiction in connection with a business combination, and the laws of such jurisdiction will likely govern all of our material agreements and we may not be able to enforce our legal rights. In connection with our proposed business combination with Vanship, we plan to relocate the home jurisdiction of our business from Delaware to another jurisdiction to take advantage of favorable tax laws. If we do this, the laws of such jurisdiction will likely govern all of our material agreements. We cannot assure you that the system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws in such jurisdiction would be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the United States. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. Any such reincorporation and the international nature of the energy industry will likely subject us to foreign regulation. 22 Because all but one of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States and, after the consummation of a business combination, substantially all of our assets may be located outside of the United States, it may be difficult for investors to enforce their legal rights against such individuals. All but one of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States and, after the consummation of a business combination, substantially all of our assets may be located outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon all of our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of such directors and officers under Federal securities laws. Management services relating to a target company may be performed by management companies that are affiliates of our officers and directors which could result in potential conflicts of interest. We anticipate engaging the services of one or more management companies to provide technical and management services, relating to the operation of vessels, storage facilities and/or refineries. If members of existing management remain our officers or directors post business combination, it is possible that these management services will be performed by management companies that are controlled by one or more of our existing stockholders, officers or directors. The management companies may receive fees and commissions in connection with their services rendered. The relationships between our officers and directors and the applicable management companies may give rise to conflicts of interest between us on the one hand and the management companies on the other. In addition, some of our officers and directors also may hold senior management positions with one or more of these management companies. In light of their positions, these individuals may experience conflicts of interest in selecting between our interests and those of the applicable management companies. Because certain financial information will be required to be provided to our stockholders in connection with a proposed business combination, prospective target businesses may be limited. In order to seek stockholder approval of a business combination with an operating business in the energy industry, the proposed target business will be required to have certain financial statements which are prepared in accordance with, or which can be reconciled to, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and audited in accordance with the standards of the United States Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. Some of the businesses in the energy industry may not keep financial statements in accordance with, or that can be reconciled with, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. To the extent that the required financial statements or information cannot be prepared or obtained, we will not be able to complete a business combination with such entities. Accordingly, these financial information requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses which we may acquire. If we choose to enter the shipping industry and we re-incorporate in a foreign jurisdiction, we may become subject to United States Federal income taxation on our United States source shipping income. Should we choose to enter the shipping industry and complete a business combination with a target business outside of the United States and, such acquisition involved our reincorporation as a foreign entity, we would then attempt to qualify under Section 883 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, for an exemption from United States federal income tax on substantially all of our shipping income. This exemption may not be available, or may subsequently be lost, if 50% or more of our stock is owned, for more than half the number of days during the taxable year, by persons in the United States. We can give no assurance that the ownership of our stock will permit us to qualify for the Section 883 exemption. If we do not qualify for an exemption pursuant to Section 883, we will be subject to United States federal income tax, likely imposed on a gross basis at 4%, on our United States source shipping income, which constitutes not more than 50% of our gross shipping income. In such case, we may seek to elect to be taxed under what is in essence an alternative tonnage tax created by the American Job Creation Act of 2004, which would likely provide for a substantially reduced tax to the extent it applies. In such a case, our net income and cash flow will be reduced by the amount of such tax. 23 Risks associated with our securities Our outstanding warrants, options and convertible debt may have an adverse effect on the market price of common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. Following our public offering, as part of the units, we issued warrants to purchase 21,750,398 shares of common stock (which includes the units sold in the Regulation S private placement). In addition, we reserved (i) up to an additional 3,585,000 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of options to be issued to Messrs. Sagredos and Theotokis and (ii) up to an additional 631,500 shares of common stock underlying 315,750 units issuable upon conversion of a loan to be made by an off-shore company controlled by Mr. Sagredos. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of substantial numbers of additional shares upon exercise or conversion of these warrants, options and convertible debt could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business as such securities, when exercised or converted, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the business combination. Accordingly, our warrants, options and convertible debt may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants, options and convertible debt could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future public financing. If and to the extent these warrants, options and convertible debt are exercised or converted, you may experience dilution to your holdings. If certain of our stockholders exercise their registration rights, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect a business combination. Certain of our stockholders are entitled to demand that we register the resale of the 5,268,849 shares of common stock they acquired prior to our public offering at any time after the date on which their shares are released from escrow, which, except in limited circumstances, will not be before July 18, 2009. Furthermore, we have agreed to grant demand registration rights with respect to the securities underlying the 825,398 units purchased in the Regulation S private placement and the securities underlying the 268,500 units issuable upon conversion of the convertible loans at any time after we announce that we have entered a letter of intent, an agreement in principle or a definitive agreement in connection with a business combination. We have also agreed to apply our best efforts to register the 3,585,000 shares of common stock underlying the options we issued to Messrs. Sagredos and Theotokis upon the closing of the public offering. If the stockholders exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their shares of common stock, then there will be up to an additional 9,947,747 shares of common stock (assuming that the convertible loans are converted and all of the options granted to Messrs. Sagredos and Theotokis have vested and are exercised) eligible for trading in the public market. The presence of this additional number of shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of the target business, as the stockholders of the target business may be discouraged from entering into a business combination with us or request a higher price for their securities as a result of these registration rights and the potential future effect their exercise may have on the trading market for our common stock. The American Stock Exchange may delist our securities from quotation on its exchange which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our common stock and warrants are listed on the American Stock Exchange. We cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the American Stock Exchange in the future prior to, or following, a business combination. Additionally, in connection with our business combination, it is likely that the American Stock Exchange may require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the American Stock Exchange delists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences including: · a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; · a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock,” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; 24 · a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and · a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. An investment in our securities may involve adverse tax consequences because the redemption and liquidation price per share may be greater than the investor’s per share purchase price. While we intend to take a contrary position, there is a risk that an investor’s entitlement to receive payments in excess of the investor’s tax basis in our common stock upon exercise of the investor’s redemption right or upon our liquidation will result in constructive income to the investor, which could affect the timing and character of income recognition and result in a tax liability to the investor without the investor’s receipt of cash from us. Such risk might also arise as a result of management’s agreement to surrender shares if and to the extent investors exercise their redemption rights. Prospective investors are urged to consult their own tax advisors with respect to these tax risks, as well as the specific tax consequences to them of purchasing, holding or disposing of our units. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. We may be deemed to be an investment company, as defined under Sections 3(a)(1)(A) and (C) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 because, prior to the consummation of a business combination, we may be viewed as engaging in the business of investing in securities and we will own investment securities having a value exceeding forty percent of our total assets. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, our activities may be restricted, including: · restrictions on the nature of our investments; and · restrictions on the issuance of securities; which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: · registration as an investment company; · adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and · reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. However, we do not believe that our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940. To this end, the proceeds held in trust may only be invested by the trust agent in Treasury Bills issued by the United States with maturity dates of 180 days or less or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to avoid being deemed an investment company within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940. Our securities are not intended for persons who are seeking a return on investments in government securities. The trust account and the purchase of government securities for the trust account is intended as a holding place for funds pending the earlier to occur of either: (i) the consummation of our primary business objective, which is a business combination, or (ii) absent a business combination, our dissolution and return of the funds held in the trust account to our public stockholders as part of our plan of dissolution and liquidation. Notwithstanding our belief that we are not required to comply with the requirements of such act, in the event that the stockholders do not approve a plan of dissolution and liquidation and the funds remain in the trust account for an indeterminable amount of time, we may be considered to be an investment company and thus required to comply with such act. If we were deemed to be subject to the act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense that we have not allotted for. 25 Our directors may not be considered “independent” under the policies of the North American Securities Administrators Association, Inc. Under the policies of the North American Securities Administrators Association, Inc., an international organization devoted to investor protection, because each of our directors owns shares of our securities and may receive reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them in connection with activities on our behalf such as identifying potential target businesses and performing due diligence on suitable business combinations, state securities administrators could take the position that such individuals are not “independent.” If this were the case, they would take the position that we would not have the benefit of independent directors examining the propriety of expenses incurred on our behalf and subject to reimbursement. Additionally, there is no limit on the amount of out-of-pocket expenses that could be incurred and there will be no review of the reasonableness of the expenses by anyone other than our board of directors, which would include persons who may seek reimbursement, or a court of competent jurisdiction if such reimbursement is challenged. To the extent such out-of-pocket expenses exceed the available proceeds not deposited in the trust account, such out-of-pocket expenses would not be reimbursed by us unless we consummate a business combination, in which event this reimbursement obligation would in all likelihood be negotiated with the owners of a target business. Although we believe that all actions taken by our directors on our behalf will be in our best interests, whether or not they are deemed to be “independent” under the policies of the North American Securities Administrator Association, we cannot assure you that this will actually be the case. If actions are taken, or expenses are incurred that are actually not in our best interests, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations and the price of our stock held by the public stockholders. Because we may acquire a company located outside of the United States, we may be subject to various risks of the foreign jurisdiction in which we ultimately operate. If we acquire a company that has sales or operations outside the United States, we could be exposed to risks that negatively impact our future sales or profitability following a business combination, especially if the acquired company is in a developing country or a country that is not fully market-oriented. If we were to acquire a business that operates in such a country, our operations might not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected in the United States or another country with an economy similar to the market-oriented economies of member countries which are members of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or the OECD (an international organization helping governments through the economic, social and governance challenges of a globalized economy). Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None Item 