ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors could affect our financial condition and/or operating results. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our profitability, like that of most financial institutions, depends substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on our interest-bearing liabilities. We also are subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and investment securities. Increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable-rate loans. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and investment securities as borrowers refinance to reduce borrowing costs. In a decreasing interest rate environment, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and securities. In an increasing interest rate environment, we are subject to the risk that interest costs on deposits and borrowings could rise more quickly than interest income from loans and investments. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. Community Mutual’s loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of the loans, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. We therefore may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Material additions to our allowance for loan losses also would materially decrease our net income, and the charge-off of loans may cause us to increase the allowance. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. We rely on our loan quality reviews, our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors, in determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We believe that the current amount of allowance for loan losses is sufficient to absorb inherent losses in our loan portfolio. Our loan portfolio includes loans with a higher risk of loss. While the majority of Community Mutual’s loan portfolio consists of residential mortgage loans, it also originates commercial and consumer loans. Commercial and consumer loans may expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans may not be sold as easily as residential real estate. In addition, commercial loans may also involve relatively large loan balances to individual borrowers or groups of borrowers. These loans also have greater credit risk than residential real estate for the following reasons: • Commercial Loans. Repayment is generally dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower’s business. 35 Table of Contents • Consumer Loans. Consumer loans (such as personal lines of credit) may or may not be collateralized with assets that provide an adequate source of payment of the loan due to depreciation, damage, or loss. The current downturn in the real estate market, unemployment and local economy could adversely affect the value of the properties securing the loans or revenues from the borrower’s business thereby increasing the risk of non-performing loans. During fiscal year 2009, the national real estate market declined compared to fiscal year 2008. This decline was also apparent in CMS Bancorp’s primary market area. The slowdown in the general housing market is evidenced by reports of reduced levels of new and existing home sales, increasing inventories of houses on the market, stagnant to declining property values and an increase in the length of time houses remain on the market. No assurances can be given that these conditions will improve or will not worsen. Low demand for real estate loans may lower our profitability. Making loans secured by real estate is our primary business and primary source of revenue. If customer demand for real estate loans decreases, our profits may decrease because our alternative investments, primarily securities, generally earn less income than real estate loans. Customer demand for loans secured by real estate could be reduced due to weaker economic conditions, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or an increase in interest rates. Changes in our asset quality could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. When we discuss “asset quality,” we usually mean the likelihood that a borrower will repay a loan, with interest, on time. We think our overall asset quality is good, and has been that way for several years. We cannot predict whether our asset quality will stay as strong as it has been because changes in the economy can impact asset quality. If our asset quality were to deteriorate it could expose us to greater credit risk and adversely affect our financial condition. The results of our operations may be adversely affected if asset valuations cause other-than-temporary impairment charges. Community Mutual may be required to record future impairment charges on our investment securities, including the FHLB stock we are required to hold as a condition to membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York, if they suffer declines in value that are considered other-than-temporary. Numerous factors, including lack of liquidity for re-sales of certain investment securities, absence of reliable pricing information for investment securities, adverse changes in business climate, adverse actions by regulators, or unanticipated changes in the competitive environment could have a negative effect on our investment portfolio in future periods. If an impairment charge is significant enough it could affect the ability of Community Mutual to upstream dividends to CMS Bancorp, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and ability to pay dividends to shareholders and could also negatively impact our regulatory capital ratios and result in Community Mutual not being classified as “well-capitalized” for regulatory purposes. The downturn in our local economy may negatively affect our future growth possibilities by limiting funds available for deposit and our borrowers’ ability to repay their loans on a timely basis. Our current primary market area is principally located in Westchester County, New York. Our future growth opportunities depend on the growth and stability of our regional economy and our ability to expand our market area. The current economic downturn could cause significant increases in non-performing loans, which would hurt our profits. Additionally, a decrease in asset quality could require additions to our allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses, which would hurt our profits. A decline in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage loans to become inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss. 36 Table of Contents The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Negative developments in the financial industry and the credit markets may subject us to additional regulation. As a result of ongoing challenges facing the U.S. economy, the potential exists for new laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards to be promulgated, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry and credit markets, and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments, may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and may adversely impact our financial performance. We may not be able to successfully implement our future plans for growth. As a component of our business plan, we will consider expansion opportunities such as the acquisition of branches and other financial institutions, although we do not have any current understandings, agreements or arrangements for expansion by the acquisition of any branches or other financial institutions. There can be no assurance, however, that we will experience any growth in the future. Significant changes in interest rates or the competition we face may make it difficult to attract the level of customer deposits needed to fund our internal growth at projected levels. We cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately and profitably implement our possible future growth or that we will not have to incur additional expenditures beyond current projections to support such growth. Liquidity risks could affect operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources to accommodate our existing and future lending and investment activities could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity and severely constrain our financial flexibility. Our primary source of funding is retail deposits gathered through our network of branch offices. Our alternative funding sources include, without limitation, brokered certificates of deposit, federal funds purchased, Federal Reserve Discount Window borrowings, FHLB advances and short and long-term debt. We depend on our executive officers and key personnel to continue the implementation of our long-term business strategy and could be harmed by the loss of their services. We believe that our growth and future success will depend in large part upon the skills of our management team. The competition for qualified personnel in the financial services industry is intense, and the loss of our key personnel or an inability to continue to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could adversely affect our business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing key personnel or attract additional qualified personnel. We have an employment agreement with our President and Chief Executive Officer and change in control agreements with several other senior executive officers. The loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers and key personnel could impair our ability to continue to develop our business strategy. In particular, regulatory restrictions imposed on our ability to compensate our key executive officers could adversely impact our ability to retain key personnel. 37 Table of Contents Competition in our primary market area may reduce our ability to attract and retain deposits and originate loans. We operate in a competitive market for both attracting deposits, which is our primary source of funds, and originating loans. Historically, our most direct competition for deposits has come from savings and commercial banks in Westchester County, New York and surrounding areas. Our competition for loans comes principally from commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies and brokerage and investment banking firms. We also face additional competition from internet-based institutions, brokerage firms and insurance companies. Many of our competitors offer products and services different from us, and have substantially greater resources, name recognition and market presence than we do, which benefits them in attracting business. Larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we can and have broader customer and geographic bases to draw upon. Competition for loan originations and deposits may limit our future growth and earnings prospects. Competitors that are not depository institutions are generally not subject to the extensive regulations that apply to us. Through Community Mutual, we compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we must attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. There is a risk that we will not be able to compete successfully with these other financial institutions in our markets, and that we may have to pay higher interest rates to attract deposits or charge lower interest rates to obtain loan volume, resulting in reduced profitability. In new markets that we may enter, we will also compete against well-established community banks that have developed relationships within the community. We are a community bank and our ability to maintain our reputation is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. We are a community bank, and our reputation is one of the most valuable components of our business. As such, we strive to conduct our business in a manner that enhances our reputation. This is done, in part, by recruiting, hiring and retaining employees who share our core values of being an integral part of the communities we serve, delivering superior service to our customers and caring about our customers and associates. If our reputation is negatively affected, by the actions of our employees or otherwise, our business and, therefore, our operating results may be materially adversely affected. We operate in a highly regulated environment, and changes in laws and regulations to which we are subject may adversely affect our results of operations. Community Mutual is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OTS, as its chartering authority, and by the FDIC as the insurer of its deposits up to certain limits. In addition, the OTS regulates and oversees CMS Bancorp. We also belong to the Federal Home Loan Bank System and, as a member of such system, we are subject to certain limited regulations promulgated by the FHLB. This regulation and supervision limits the activities in which we may engage. The purpose of regulation and supervision is primarily to protect our depositors and borrowers and, in the case of FDIC regulation, the FDIC’s insurance fund. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in the exercise of their supervisory and enforcement powers. They may, among other things, impose restrictions on the operation of a banking institution, the classification of assets by such institution and such institution’s allowance for loan losses. Regulatory and law enforcement authorities also have wide discretion and extensive enforcement powers under various consumer protection and civil rights laws, including the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act. Any change in the laws or regulations applicable to us, or in banking regulators’ 38 Table of Contents supervisory policies or examination procedures, whether by the OTS, the FDIC, other state or federal regulators, or the United States Congress could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As highlighted in the Regulation section, federal bank regulatory agencies, as well as the U.S. Congress and the President, are in the process of evaluating the regulation of banks, other financial institutions and the financial markets and such changes, if any, could require us to maintain more capital, liquidity and risk management that could adversely affect our growth, profitability and financial condition, as well as change our charter, regulator and/or subject us to new or additional regulations and regulators. In particular, various proposals to eliminate the federal thrift charter, create a uniform financial institutions charter and abolish the OTS are being considered in the U.S. Congress. We are unable to predict whether such legislation will be enacted or the extent to which the legislation could restrict or disrupt our or Community Mutual’s operations. Higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments could adversely affect our financial condition. FDIC insurance premiums have increased substantially in 2009 and we expect to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in the future. Market developments have significantly depleted the DIF and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The FDIC adopted a revised risk-based deposit insurance assessment schedule on February 27, 2009, which raised deposit insurance premiums. On May 22, 2009, the FDIC also implemented a five basis point special assessment of each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, but no more than 10 basis points times the institution’s assessment base for the second quarter of 2009, that was collected on September 30, 2009. In imposing the special assessment, the FDIC noted that additional special assessments may be imposed by the FDIC for future periods. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule that requires insured depository institutions to prepay their quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009, and for all of 2010, 2011, and 2012, on December 30, 2009, along with each institution’s risk-based deposit insurance assessment for the third quarter of 2009. Under the final rule, the FDIC stated that its requirement for prepaid assessments does not preclude the FDIC from changing assessment rates or from further revising the risk-based assessment system during 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, or thereafter, pursuant to notice-and-comment rulemaking procedures provided by statute, and therefore, continued actions by the FDIC could significantly increase Community Mutual’s noninterest expense in fiscal 2010 and for the foreseeable future. We also participate in the FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, or TLGP, for noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts. Banks that participate in the TLGP’s noninterest-bearing transaction account guarantee will pay the FDIC an annual assessment of 10 basis points on the amounts in such accounts above the amounts covered by FDIC deposit insurance. The general termination date for the transaction account guarantee portion of the TLGP is December 31, 2009. To promote an orderly phase-out of the program, on August 26, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule extending the program for six months, through June 30, 2010. For institutions that choose to remain in the program, the fee will be raised and adjusted to reflect the institution’s risk profile. Any institution currently participating in the program that wishes to opt out of the transaction account guarantee program extension was required to submit its opt-out election to the FDIC on or before November 2, 2009. We have decided to remain in the program, and therefore will be subject to additional fees for the extended portion of the program. 39 Table of Contents There can be no assurance regarding the impact of pending legislation or regulatory changes on the United States financial services industry and the United States financial system or that the phase-out of existing recovery programs will not adversely impact the system. The United States Congress, the Obama Administration and various industry and public interest groups are currently debating many aspects of the existing structure of the United States financial system, including regulatory restructuring; federal and national charter changes; issues involving systemic risk; appropriate capitalization levels; establishment of a new and independent Consumer Financial Protection Agency; permitting state regulators to supervise, oversee and/or enforce state laws on federal and nationally chartered depository institutions; the ability of federal and nationally chartered depository institutions to operate nationwide under a uniform set of federal laws; restrictions on mortgage lending, credit card lending and other areas affecting bank lending operations; laws impacting loan securitization and secondary mortgage lending activities; additional laws that could impose new regulatory burdens on insured depository institutions; increased assessments on depository institutions to pay for industry supervision and oversight; and changes in holding company oversight and supervision. All of these changes could all have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit and the value of our securities. Similarly, the premature termination, manner or timing of the phase-out of existing programs implemented to assist the United States financial system in recovering from the recent financial crisis could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the value of our securities. Recently enacted legislation may not help stabilize the U.S. financial system and the phase-out of existing recovery programs may adversely impact the system. Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions may not stabilize the U.S. banking system. On October 3, 2008, the President signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, or the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act, in response to the crisis in the financial sector. The Treasury and various banking regulators have implemented a number of programs under this legislation to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system. On February 17, 2009, the President signed into law the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, or the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act or the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, and the various programs implemented in association with these legislative efforts, will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced within the sector. The failure of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act or American Recovery and Reinvestment Act and the associated programs to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the value of our securities. Similarly, the premature termination, manner or timing of the phase-out of existing programs implemented to assist the U.S. financial system in recovering from the recent financial crisis could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the value of our securities. The impact of pending legislation and regulatory changes on the U.S. financial services industry and the U.S. financial system may adversely affect our business. The U.S. Congress, the Obama Administration and various industry and public interest groups are currently debating many aspects of the existing structure of the U.S. financial system, including regulatory restructuring; federal and national charter changes; issues involving systemic risk; appropriate capitalization levels; establishment of a new and independent Consumer Financial Protection Agency; permitting state regulators to supervise, oversee and/or enforce state laws on federal and nationally chartered depository institutions; the ability of federal and nationally chartered depository institutions to operate nationwide under a uniform set of federal laws; restrictions on mortgage lending, credit card 40 Table of Contents lending and other areas affecting bank lending operations; laws impacting loan securitization and secondary mortgage lending activities; additional compliance laws that could impose new regulatory burdens on insured depository institutions; increased assessments on depository institutions to pay for industry supervision and oversight; and changes in holding company oversight and supervision could all have a material, adverse impact on Community Mutual’s and our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the value of our securities. Changes in the Federal Reserve’s monetary or fiscal policies could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our earnings will be affected by domestic economic conditions and the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States government and its agencies. The Federal Reserve Board has, and is likely to continue to have, an important impact on the operating results of commercial banks through its power to implement national monetary policy, among other things, in order to curb inflation or combat a recession. The Federal Reserve Board affects the levels of bank loans, investments and deposits through its control over the issuance of United States government securities, its regulation of the discount rate applicable to member banks and its influence over reserve requirements to which member banks are subject. We cannot predict the nature or impact of future changes in monetary and fiscal policies. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and, as a result, investors and depositors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, the trading price of our stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. Beginning with our annual report for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2008, we were required to include in our annual reports filed with the SEC a report of our management regarding internal control over financial reporting. As a result, we documented and evaluated our internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and SEC rules and regulations, which require an annual management report on our internal control over financial reporting, including, among other matters, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to identify and correct any significant deficiencies in the design or operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or fail to prevent fraud, current and potential stockholders and depositors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, the trading price of our stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. Our charter, bylaws and certain laws contain antitakeover provisions that may prevent transactions you might favor, including a sale or merger of CMS Bancorp. Provisions of our charter and bylaws may make it more difficult for companies or persons from gaining control of us through a tender offer, business combination, proxy contest or some other method, even though you might be in favor of the transaction. These antitakeover provisions include: • limitations on voting rights of the beneficial owners of more than 10% of our common stock; • supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations and changes to some provisions of the charter and bylaws; • the election of directors to staggered terms of three years; and • provisions regarding the timing and content of stockholder proposals and nominations. Furthermore, federal law requires OTS approval prior to any direct or indirect acquisition of “control” (as defined in OTS regulations) of Community Mutual, including any acquisition of control of CMS Bancorp. 41 Table of Contents The trading volume in our common stock has been low, and the sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could depress the price of our common stock and make it difficult for you to sell your shares. Our common stock is listed to trade on the Nasdaq Capital Market, but is thinly traded. As a result, you may not be able to sell your shares of common stock on short notice. Additionally, thinly traded stock can be more volatile than stock trading in an active public market. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock at one time could temporarily depress the market price of our common stock, making it difficult for you to sell your shares and impairing our ability to raise capital. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 