D. Risk Factors Investing in the ADSs involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this Annual Report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, before investing in the ADSs. The risks and uncertainties described below are those significant risk factors, currently known and specific to us that we believe are relevant to an investment in the ADSs. If any of these risks materialize, our business, results of operations or financial condition could suffer, the price of the ADSs could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we now deem immaterial may also harm us and adversely affect your investment in the ADSs. Risks Related to Our Business We are substantially dependent on the success of our only commercial product Sativex. Our future success will depend heavily on the continued successful commercialization of Sativex, which is now in the early stages of its commercial life. Although Sativex is currently approved in 22 countries outside of the United States for spasticity due to multiple sclerosis, or MS, and is sold in 11 of those countries, it may never be successfully commercialized in all of these jurisdictions. Sativex's commercial success depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including the willingness of 5 Table of Contents physicians to prescribe Sativex to patients, payers' willingness and ability to pay for the drug, the level of pricing achieved, patients' response to Sativex and the ability of our marketing partners to generate sales. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will succeed in generating revenue growth through the commercialization of Sativex for MS spasticity. If we are not successful in the continued commercialization of Sativex, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially harmed. We are dependent on the success of our product candidates, including Sativex for cancer pain, none of which may receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized. Our success will depend on our ability to successfully commercialize our product pipeline, including commercialization of Sativex for cancer pain, currently in Phase 3 trials, and our other cannabinoid product candidates for type-2 diabetes, ulcerative colitis, cancer, epilepsy and schizophrenia. We are evaluating Sativex in Phase 3 trials for the treatment of cancer pain in the United States and it may never receive U.S. regulatory approval. We have met with, and received guidance from, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, regarding the development program for Sativex for MS spasticity in the United States, and have opened an Investigational New Drug Application, or IND, with the FDA for this indication. However, we may never receive U.S. regulatory approval for this indication either. Even if completed Phase 3 clinical trials and/or Phase 3 clinical trials conducted for U.S. approval show positive results, there can be no assurance that the FDA will approve Sativex for any given indication for several potential reasons, including failure to follow Good Clinical Practice, or GCP, negative assessment of risk:benefit, unacceptable risk of abuse or diversion, insufficient product quality control and standardization, non-GMP compliant manufacturing facilities, unreliable dose counter, and failure to agree on appropriate clinical endpoints. For example, discussions with the FDA about its recommended primary endpoints for a pivotal study in MS spasticity are expected to lead to use of the Modified Ashworth Scale (MAS) and the Physician Global Impression of Change (PGIC) rather than the primary endpoints we used in our previous Phase 3 studies. In those studies, we demonstrated statistical improvements on the PGIC and approached statistical significance on the MAS. The new proposed study is powered to detect a statistical difference on both endpoints. Our ability to successfully commercialize Sativex and our other product candidates will depend on, among other things, our ability to: •successfully complete pre-clinical and clinical trials; •receive regulatory approvals from the FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities; •produce, through a validated process, in manufacturing facilities inspected and approved by regulatory authorities, including the FDA, sufficiently large quantities of Sativex, the related Botanical Drug Substances, or BDSs, and our product candidates to permit successful commercialization; •establish collaborations with third parties for the commercialization of our product candidates, or otherwise build and maintain strong sales, distribution and marketing capabilities sufficient to launch commercial sales of our product candidates; •obtain reimbursement from payers such as government health care systems and insurance companies, as well as achieve commercially attractive levels of pricing; •secure acceptance of Sativex and our product candidates from physicians, health care payers, patients and the medical community; •create positive publicity surrounding Sativex and our other product candidates; 6 Table of Contents •manage our spending as costs and expenses increase due to clinical trials and commercialization; and •obtain and enforce sufficient intellectual property for Sativex and our other product candidates. Our failure with respect to any of the factors above could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our product candidates, if approved, may be unable to achieve the expected market acceptance and, consequently, limit our ability to generate revenue from new products. Even when product development is successful and regulatory approval has been obtained, our ability to generate significant revenue depends on the acceptance of our products by physicians and patients. Although Sativex is already known in certain markets for the treatment of MS spasticity, we cannot assure you that it or our other planned products will achieve the expected market acceptance and revenue if and when they obtain the requisite regulatory approvals. The market acceptance of any product depends on a number of factors, including the indication statement and warnings approved by regulatory authorities in the product label, continued demonstration of efficacy and safety in commercial use, physicians' willingness to prescribe the product, reimbursement from third-party payers such as government health care systems and insurance companies, the price of the product, the nature of any post-approval risk management plans mandated by regulatory authorities, competition, and marketing and distribution support. Any factors preventing or limiting the market acceptance of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In respect of our product candidates targeting orphan indications, orphan drug exclusivity may afford limited protection, and if another party obtains orphan drug exclusivity for the drugs and indications we are targeting, we may be precluded from commercializing our product candidates in those indications. The first NDA applicant to receive FDA approval for a particular active ingredient to treat a particular disease with FDA orphan drug designation is entitled to a seven-year exclusive marketing period in the U.S. for that product, for that indication. There is no assurance that we will successfully obtain orphan drug exclusivity for any of our product candidates. Even if we do obtain orphan drug exclusivity for any product candidate, orphan drug exclusive marketing rights may be lost if the FDA later determines that the request for designation was materially defective, or if the manufacturer is unable to assure sufficient quantity of the drug. Moreover, a different drug or, under limited circumstances, the same drug, may be approved by the FDA for the same orphan indication during the period of marketing exclusivity. The limited circumstances include an inability to supply the drug in sufficient quantities or where the second drug has been shown to be clinically superior to the drug with marketing exclusivity through a demonstration of superior safety or efficacy or that it makes a major contribution to patient care. Product shipment delays could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The shipment, import and export of Sativex and our product candidates require import and export licenses. In the United States, the FDA, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, and the Drug Enforcement Administration, or DEA, and in the United Kingdom, the Home Office, and in other countries, similar regulatory authorities regulate the import and export of pharmaceutical products that contain controlled substances, including Sativex and our other product candidates. Specifically, the import and export process requires the issuance of import and export licenses by the relevant controlled substance authority in both the importing and exporting country. We may not be granted, or if granted, maintain, such licenses from the authorities in certain countries. Even if we obtain the 7 Table of Contents relevant licenses, shipments of Sativex and our product candidates may be held up in transit, which could cause significant delays and may lead to product batches being stored outside required temperature ranges. Inappropriate storage may damage the product shipment resulting in a partial or total loss of revenue from one or more shipment of Sativex or our other product candidates. A partial or total loss of revenue from one or more shipment of Sativex or our other product candidates could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to obtain and sustain an adequate level of reimbursement for our products by third-party payers, sales and profitability would be adversely affected. The course of medical treatment for patients is and will continue to be expensive. We expect that most patients and their families will not be capable of paying for our products themselves. There will be no commercially viable market for Sativex or our other product candidates without reimbursement from third-party payers. Additionally, even if there is a commercially viable market, if the level of third-party reimbursement is below our expectations, our revenue and gross margins will be adversely affected. Third-party payers, such as government programs, including Medicare, or private health care insurers, carefully review and increasingly question the coverage of, and challenge the prices charged for medical products and services, and many third-party payers limit coverage of or reimbursement for newly approved health care products. Reimbursement rates from private health insurance companies vary depending on the company, the insurance plan and other factors. A current trend in the U.S. health care industry as well as in other countries around the world is toward cost containment. Large public and private payers, managed care organizations, group purchasing organizations and similar organizations are exerting increasing influence on decisions regarding the use of, and reimbursement levels for, particular treatments. In particular, third-party payers may limit the covered indications. Cost-control initiatives could decrease the price we might establish for any product, which could result in product revenue and profitability being lower than anticipated. For example, in March 2013, the German National Association of Statutory Health Insurance Funds imposed a price reduction for Sativex in Germany effective for sales from July 1, 2012. This price reduction adversely affected our Sativex sales in our 2013 fiscal year results by £1.1 million due to the recognition of a £1.1 million provision for a rebate we expect to pay to our commercial partner, Almirall, following the pricing decision in Germany. Subsequently, in September 2013, the German authorities agreed to increase the price from the previously reduced level with effect from January 1, 2014, albeit not to the level at which the product had been launched in that country. Future cost-control initiatives in Germany or other markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If the price for Sativex or any future approved products decreases or if governmental and other third-party payers do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels our revenue and prospects for profitability will suffer. Reimbursement systems in international markets vary significantly by country and by region, and reimbursement approvals must be obtained on a country-by-country basis. Our partners may elect to reduce the price of our products in order to increase the likelihood of obtaining reimbursement approvals. In many countries, products cannot be commercially launched until reimbursement is approved and the negotiation process in some countries can exceed 12 months. In addition, pricing and reimbursement decisions in certain countries can be affected by decisions taken in other countries, which can lead to mandatory price reductions and/or additional reimbursement restrictions across a number of other countries, which may thereby adversely affect our sales and profitability. In the event that countries impose prices which are not sufficient to allow us or our partners to generate a profit, our partners may refuse to launch the product in such countries or withdraw the product from the 8 Table of Contents market, which would adversely affect sales and profitability. For example, in Germany, a revised price has caused us to initiate the renegotiation of supply terms with our partner, Almirall, in order to maintain a level of profitability of our sales of Sativex in Germany. In addition, in Australia, we have not yet obtained public reimbursement for Sativex, which may lead to our partner, Novartis, deciding not to launch in that country or elsewhere in the region for which they have commercial rights until reimbursement is obtained. Future price decreases or unfavorable reimbursement decisions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Problems in our manufacturing process, failure to comply with manufacturing regulations or unexpected increases in our manufacturing costs could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are responsible for the manufacture and supply of Sativex to our collaboration partners and for use in clinical trials. The manufacturing of Sativex necessitates compliance with international Good Manufacturing Practice, or GMP, and other international regulatory requirements. Our ability to successfully manufacture Sativex involves cultivation of botanical raw material from specific cannabinoid plants under highly controlled and standardized conditions, extraction and purification processes, manufacture of finished products and labeling and packaging, which includes product information, tamper evidence and anti-counterfeit features. In addition, we must ensure therapeutic consistency among our batches, including clinical batches and, if approved, marketing batches. Demonstrating such consistency may require typical manufacturing controls as well as clinical data. We must also ensure that our batches conform to complex release specifications. For each step in the manufacturing process, we are currently reliant on single manufacturing facilities and no back-up facilities are yet in place. Because Sativex is a complex mixture manufactured from plant materials, and because the release specifications may not be identical in all countries, certain batches may fail release testing and not be able to be commercialized. If we are unable to manufacture Sativex or other product candidates in accordance with regulatory specifications, or if there are disruptions in our manufacturing process due to damage, loss or otherwise, or failure to pass regulatory inspections of our manufacturing facilities, we may not be able to meet the current demand for Sativex or supply sufficient product for use in clinical trials, and this may also harm our ability to commercialize Sativex and our product candidates on a timely or cost-competitive basis, if at all. In addition, we are in the process of expanding and upgrading parts of our manufacturing facilities in order to meet future demand and FDA requirements, a program which requires significant time and resources. We also expect to expand and upgrade other parts of our manufacturing facilities in the future. These activities may lead to delays, interruptions to supply, or may prove to be more costly than anticipated. Any problems in our manufacturing process could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, under the Sativex license agreements, we generate revenue from the supply of commercial product to our partners at a fixed percentage of partners' net sales, and hence any increases in our manufacturing costs will adversely affect our margins and our financial condition. In addition, before we can begin commercial manufacture of Sativex for sale in the United States, we must obtain FDA regulatory approval for the product, which requires a successful FDA inspection of our manufacturing facilities, processes and quality systems in addition to other product-related approvals. Further, pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities are continuously subject to inspection by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities, before and after product approval. Due to the complexity of the processes used to manufacture Sativex and our product candidates, we may be unable to initially or continue to pass federal, state or international regulatory inspections in a cost effective manner. If we are unable to comply with manufacturing regulations, we may be subject to fines, unanticipated compliance expenses, recall or seizure of any approved products, total or partial suspension of production and/or enforcement actions, including injunctions, and criminal or civil prosecution. These possible sanctions would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents Product recalls or inventory losses caused by unforeseen events, cold chain interruption and testing difficulties may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Sativex and our product candidates are manufactured and distributed using technically complex processes requiring specialized facilities, highly specific raw materials and other production constraints. The complexity of these processes, as well as strict company and government standards for the manufacture of our products, subjects us to production risks. For example, during the manufacturing process we have from time to time experienced defects in components which have caused vial sealing faults, resulting in vial leakage, pump dispenser faults which have resulted in under-filling of vials and misalignment of labels and tamper evident seals. While product batches released for use in clinical trials or for commercialization undergo sample testing, some defects may only be identified following product release. In addition, process deviations or unanticipated effects of approved process changes may result in these intermediate products not complying with stability requirements or specifications. Most of our products must be stored and transported at temperatures within a certain range, which is known as "strict cold chain" storage and transportation. If these environmental conditions deviate, our products' remaining shelf-lives could be impaired or their efficacy and safety could become adversely affected, making them no longer suitable for use. The occurrence or suspected occurrence of production and distribution difficulties can lead to lost inventories, and in some cases product recalls, with consequential reputational damage and the risk of product liability. The investigation and remediation of any identified problems can cause production delays, substantial expense, lost sales and delays of new product launches. Sativex and our product candidates contain controlled substances, the use of which may generate public controversy. Since Sativex and our product candidates contain controlled substances, their regulatory approval may generate public controversy. Political and social pressures and adverse publicity could lead to delays in approval of, and increased expenses for, Sativex and our product candidates. These pressures could also limit or restrict the introduction and marketing of Sativex and our product candidates. Adverse publicity from cannabis misuse or adverse side effects from cannabis or other cannabinoid products may adversely affect the commercial success or market penetration achievable by Sativex and our product candidates. The nature of our business attracts a high level of public and media interest, and in the event of any resultant adverse publicity, our reputation may be harmed. Business interruptions could delay us in the process of developing our product candidates and could disrupt our product sales. Loss of our manufacturing facilities, stored inventory or laboratory facilities through fire or other causes, or loss of our botanical raw material due to pathogenic infection or other causes, could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet demand for Sativex, to continue product development activities and to conduct our business. Failure to supply our partners with commercial product may lead to adverse consequences, including the right of partners to take over responsibility for product supply. We currently have insurance coverage to compensate us for such business interruptions; however, such coverage may prove insufficient to fully compensate us for the damage to our business resulting from any significant property or casualty loss to our inventory or facilities. We have significant and increasing liquidity needs and may require additional funding. Our operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash since inception. Excluding receipts from milestone fees, our cash flow used for operating activities for the years ended September 30, 2013 and September 30, 2012 was £7.7 million and £8.0 million, respectively. We expect our operating and management and administrative expenses and cash used for operations to continue to be significant and to increase substantially in connection with our planned research, development and continued product 10 Table of Contents commercialization efforts and as we establish ourselves as a U.S. public company. Over the next two years, excluding receipts from product sales, milestone fees and any potential fees resulting from new business development activity, we estimate that cash flow used for operating expenses will be approximately £30.0 million. We may need to raise additional capital to fund our operations and continue to conduct clinical trials to support potential regulatory approval of marketing applications. The amount and timing of our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to: •the timing of FDA approval, if any, and approvals in international markets of Sativex and our other product candidates, if at all; •the timing and amount of revenue from sales of Sativex, or revenue from grants or other sources; •the rate of progress and cost of our clinical trials and other product development programs; •costs of establishing or outsourcing sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; •costs and timing of completion of expanded in-house manufacturing facilities as well as any outsourced commercial manufacturing supply arrangements for Sativex and our product candidates; •costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights associated with our product candidates; •costs of operating as a U.S. public company; •the effect of competing technological and market developments; •the continuation of our existing collaboration agreements; •personnel, facilities and equipment requirements; and •the terms and timing of any additional collaborative, licensing, co-promotion or other arrangements that we may establish. While we expect to fund our future capital requirements from cash flow from operations, including milestone and other payments from our partners, we cannot assure you that any of these funding sources will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. The presence or absence of one or more new large orders in a specific quarter, our ability to process orders or the cancellation of previous orders may cause our results of operations to fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis. We supply products to our commercial partners in response to their monthly purchase order schedules. Historically, the size of each purchase order has fluctuated. As a result, the presence or absence in a specific quarter of one or more new large orders or delays in our ability to process large orders or the cancellation of previous orders may cause our results of operations to fluctuate on a quarterly basis. These fluctuations may be significant from one quarter to the next. Any demands that require us to quickly increase production may create difficulties for us. In addition, our limited commercial history and the characteristic of our orders in any quarterly period make it very difficult to accurately predict or forecast our future operating results. We are exposed to risks related to currency exchange rates. We conduct a significant portion of our operations outside the United Kingdom. Because our financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, changes in currency exchange rates have had and 11 Table of Contents could have a significant effect on our operating results. Exchange rate fluctuations between local currencies and the pound sterling create risk in several ways, including the following: weakening of the pound sterling may increase the pound sterling cost of overseas research and development expenses and the cost of sourced product components outside the United Kingdom; strengthening of the pound sterling may decrease the value of our revenues denominated in other currencies; the exchange rates on non-sterling transactions and cash deposits can distort our financial results; and commercial Sativex pricing and profit margins are affected by currency fluctuations. If product liability lawsuits are successfully brought against us, we will incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit the commercialization of Sativex and our product candidates. Although we have never had any product liability claims or lawsuits brought against us, we face potential product liability exposure related to the testing of our product candidates in human clinical trials, and we currently face exposure to claims in jurisdictions where we market and distribute Sativex. We may face exposure to claims by an even greater number of persons if we begin marketing and distributing our products commercially in the United States and elsewhere, including those relating to misuse of Sativex. Now, and in the future, an individual may bring a liability claim against us alleging that Sativex or one of our product candidates caused an injury. While we continue to take what we believe are appropriate precautions, we may be unable to avoid significant liability if any product liability lawsuit is brought against us. Although we have purchased insurance to cover product liability lawsuits, if we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, or if such insurance coverage is inadequate, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: •decreased demand for Sativex and our other product candidates, if such product candidates are approved; •injury to our reputation; •withdrawal of clinical trial participants; •costs of related litigation; •substantial monetary awards to patients and others; •increased cost of liability insurance; •loss of revenue; and •the inability to successfully commercialize our products. We depend upon our key personnel and our ability to attract and retain employees. Our future growth and success depend on our ability to recruit, retain, manage and motivate our employees. The loss of the services of any member of our senior management, including our Chairman, Dr. Geoffrey Guy, our Chief Executive Officer, Justin Gover and our Research and Development Director, Dr. Stephen Wright, or the inability to hire or retain experienced management personnel could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan and harm our operating results. Because of the specialized scientific and managerial nature of our business, we rely heavily on our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel. The competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical field is intense. Due to this intense competition, we may be unable to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business or to recruit suitable replacement personnel. 12 Table of Contents We expect to face intense competition, often from companies with greater resources and experience than we have. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid change. The industry continues to expand and evolve as an increasing number of competitors and potential competitors enter the market. Many of these competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technological, managerial and research and development resources and experience than we have. Some of these competitors and potential competitors have more experience than we have in the development of pharmaceutical products, including validation procedures and regulatory matters. In addition, Sativex competes with, and our other therapeutics, if successfully developed, will compete with, product offerings from large and well-established companies that have greater marketing and sales experience and capabilities than we or our collaboration partners have. If we are unable to compete successfully, we may be unable to grow and sustain our revenue. If we are unable to use net operating loss carryforwards and certain built-in losses to reduce future tax payments or benefit from favorable tax legislation, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. As a U.K. resident trading entity, we are subject to U.K. corporate taxation. At September 30, 2013, we had cumulative carry forward tax losses of £33.6 million. These are available to carry forward and offset against future operating profits. As a company that carries out extensive research and development activities, we benefit from the U.K. research and development tax credit regime, whereby we are able to surrender losses that arise from research and development activity for a cash rebate that equals 24.75% of the eligible research and development expenditure. We also expect to benefit in the future from the new "patent box" initiative, which started to come into effect in the United Kingdom in April 2013. This initiative effectively allows profits attributable to revenue from patented products to be taxed at a lower rate than other revenues that over time will be reduced to 10%. When taken in combination with the enhanced relief available on our research and development expenditure, we expect that this will result in a long-term low rate of corporation tax. If, however, there are unexpected adverse changes to the U.K. research and development tax credit regime or "patent box" initiative, or we are unable to qualify for such advantageous tax legislation, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We are subject to the U.K. Bribery Act, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws, as well as export control laws, customs laws, sanctions laws and other laws governing our operations. If we fail to comply with these laws, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, other remedial measures, and legal expenses, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations are subject to anti-corruption laws, including the U.K. Bribery Act 2010, or Bribery Act, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and other anti-corruption laws that apply in countries where we do business. The Bribery Act, FCPA and these other laws generally prohibit us and our employees and intermediaries from bribing, being bribed or making other prohibited payments to government officials or other persons to obtain or retain business or gain some other business advantage. We and our commercial partners operate in a number of jurisdictions that pose a high risk of potential Bribery Act or FCPA violations, and we participate in collaborations and relationships with third parties whose actions could potentially subject us to liability under the Bribery Act, FCPA or local anti-corruption laws. In addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. We are also subject to other laws and regulations governing our international operations, including regulations administered by the governments of the United Kingdom and the United States, and authorities in the European Union, including applicable export control regulations, economic sanctions 13 Table of Contents on countries and persons, customs requirements and currency exchange regulations, collectively referred to as the Trade Control laws. However, there is no assurance that we will be completely effective in ensuring our compliance with all applicable anti-corruption laws, including the Bribery Act, the FCPA or other legal requirements, including Trade Control laws. If we are not in compliance with the Bribery Act, the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws or Trade Control laws, we may be subject to criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement and other sanctions and remedial measures, and legal expenses, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Likewise, any investigation of any potential violations of the Bribery Act, the FCPA, other anti-corruption laws or Trade Control laws by U.K., U.S. or other authorities could also have an adverse impact on our reputation, our business, results of operations and financial condition. Failure of our information technology systems could significantly disrupt the operation of our business. Our ability to execute our business plan and to comply with regulators requirements with respect to data control and data integrity, depends, in part, on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our information technology systems, or IT systems. These systems are vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunications or network failures, malicious human acts and natural disasters. Moreover, despite network security and back-up measures, some of our servers are potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems. Despite the precautionary measures we have taken to prevent unanticipated problems that could affect our IT systems, sustained or repeated system failures or problems arising during the upgrade of any of our IT systems that interrupt our ability to generate and maintain data, and in particular to operate our proprietary technology platform, could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. Legislative or regulatory reform of the health care system in the United States and foreign jurisdictions may affect our ability to profitably sell our products, if approved. Our ability to commercialize our future products successfully, alone or with collaborators, will depend in part on the extent to which coverage and reimbursement for the products will be available from government and health administration authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors. The continuing efforts of the U.S. and foreign governments, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of health care services to contain or reduce health care costs may adversely affect our ability to set prices for our products which we believe are fair, and our ability to generate revenues and achieve and maintain profitability. Specifically, in both the United States and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the health care system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. For example, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, or collectively the PPACA, enacted in the United States in March 2010, substantially changes the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers. We expect further federal and state proposals and health care reforms to continue to be proposed by legislators, which could limit the prices that can be charged for the products we develop and may limit our commercial opportunity. The continuing efforts of government and other third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means may limit our commercial opportunity. It will be time consuming and expensive for us to go through the process of seeking coverage and reimbursement from Medicare and private payors. Our products may not be considered cost effective, and government and third-party private health insurance coverage and reimbursement may not be available to patients for any of our future products or sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a competitive and profitable basis. Our 14 Table of Contents results of operations could be adversely affected by PPACA and by other health care reforms that may be enacted or adopted in the future. In addition, increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States will continue to put pressure on the pricing of pharmaceutical products. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we or any potential collaborators could receive for any of our future products and could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue in the U.S. market and maintain profitability. In some foreign countries, including major markets in the European Union, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take 6 to 12 months or longer after the receipt of regulatory marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a pharmacoeconomic study that compares the cost-effectiveness of our product candidates to other available therapies. Such pharmacoeconomic studies can be costly and the results uncertain. Our business could be harmed if reimbursement of our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels. We may acquire other companies which could divert our management's attention, result in additional dilution to our shareholders and otherwise disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. We may in the future seek to acquire businesses, products or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our product offerings, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth opportunities. The pursuit of potential acquisitions may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur various expenses in identifying, investigating and pursuing suitable acquisitions, whether or not they are consummated. If we acquire additional businesses, we may not be able to integrate the acquired personnel, operations and technologies successfully, or effectively manage the combined business following the acquisition. We also may not achieve the anticipated benefits from the acquired business due to a number of factors, including: •incurrence of acquisition-related costs; •diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; •unanticipated costs or liabilities associated with the acquisition; •harm to our existing business relationships with collaboration partners as a result of the acquisition; •harm to our brand and reputation; •the potential loss of key employees; •use of resources that are needed in other parts of our business; and •use of substantial portions of our available cash to consummate the acquisition. In the future, if our acquisitions do not yield expected returns, we may be required to take charges to our operating results arising from the impairment assessment process. Acquisitions may also result in dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, if an acquired business fails to meet our expectations, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Reliance Upon Third Parties We depend substantially on the commercial expertise of our collaboration partners. We do not have a sales and marketing operation and rely on the expertise and commercial skills of our collaboration partners to sell Sativex. We have entered into agreements for the commercialization of Sativex with Almirall S.A., or Almirall, in Europe (excluding the United Kingdom) and Mexico; Otsuka in the United States; Novartis Pharma AG, or Novartis, in Australia and New Zealand, Asia (excluding Japan, China and Hong Kong), the Middle East (excluding Israel) and Africa; Bayer HealthCare AG in the United Kingdom and Canada; and Neopharm Group in Israel. Our ability to successfully market and sell Sativex in each of these markets depends entirely on the expertise and commercial skills of our collaboration partners. Our partners have the right, under certain circumstances, to terminate their agreements with us, and three of our partners, Almirall, Otsuka and Novartis, have the right to terminate their agreements with us without cause. A failure by our partners to successfully market Sativex, or the termination of agreements with our partners, will have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely heavily on Otsuka for funding of our research and development programs and overhead, and Otsuka is a joint owner of the intellectual property resulting from our pre-clinical research collaboration. We rely heavily on our relationship with Otsuka for the funding of our research and development programs and for overhead expenses. Under the terms of our agreement with Otsuka with respect to Sativex in the United States, Otsuka funds all pre-clinical and clinical trials for the development of Sativex in the treatment of cancer pain. As provided for under the terms of this agreement, we also expect Otsuka to fund pre-clinical and clinical trials required for the development of Sativex in the treatment of MS spasticity in the United States. If Otsuka were to terminate this agreement, we would be required to find alternative funding for our clinical program for the development of Sativex in the treatment of cancer pain and MS spasticity or face substantial delays in, or possible termination of, that program. In addition, under a separate global research collaboration for research of cannabinoids in central nervous system, or CNS, and oncology, we received funds from Otsuka from 2007 to June 2013. The term of this research collaboration agreement with Otsuka ended in June 2013 and we expect an increase in our GW-funded research and development expenditure as a result of this change. In addition, the research collaboration agreement provided that all intellectual property rights (including both patents and non-manufacturing related know-how) that was conceived by either Otsuka or us during the course of the collaboration is to be jointly owned by Otsuka and us. We have 11 patent families with 219 jointly owned patent applications relating to our collaboration with Otsuka, including those directed to the use of Sativex in the CNS and/or oncology field or that are otherwise relevant to Sativex. Because Otsuka exercises some control over this jointly owned intellectual property, we may need to seek Otsuka's consent to pursue, use, license and/or enforce some of this collaboration intellectual property in the future. In addition, Otsuka has the right to develop and commercialize a synthetic cannabinoid molecule product (a molecule not based on a phytocannabinoid but which has an effect on the endocannabinoid system) subject to payment of a royalty to us. An unexpected deterioration in our relationship with Otsuka would have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition. Our existing collaboration arrangements and any that we may enter into in the future may not be successful, which could adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize Sativex and our product candidates. We are a party to, and may seek additional, collaboration arrangements with pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies for the development or commercialization of our current and potential product candidates, including for the commercialization of Sativex. We may enter into new arrangements on a selective basis depending on the merits of retaining commercialization rights for 16 Table of Contents ourselves as compared to entering into selective collaboration arrangements with leading pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies for each product candidate, both in the United States and internationally. To the extent that we decide to enter into collaboration agreements, we will face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators. Moreover, collaboration arrangements are complex and time consuming to negotiate, document and implement. We may not be successful in our efforts to establish, implement and maintain collaborations or other alternative arrangements if we choose to enter into such arrangements. The terms of any collaboration or other arrangements that we may establish may not be favorable to us. Any existing or future collaboration that we enter into may not be successful. The success of our collaboration arrangements will depend heavily on the efforts and activities of our collaborators. Collaborators generally have significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that they will apply to these collaborations. Disagreements between parties to a collaboration arrangement regarding development, intellectual property, regulatory or commercialization matters, can lead to delays in the development process or commercialization of the applicable product candidate and, in some cases, termination of the collaboration arrangement. These disagreements can be difficult to resolve if neither of the parties has final decision making authority. Collaborations with pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies and other third parties often are terminated or allowed to expire by the other party. Any such termination or expiration would adversely affect us financially and could harm our business reputation. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for materials and components required to manufacture Sativex and our other product candidates. The loss of these suppliers, or their failure to supply us on a timely basis, could cause delays in our current and future capacity and adversely affect our business. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for the materials and components required to manufacture Sativex and our other product candidates. For example, we rely on single-source suppliers to supply various components of Sativex, including the glass vial, pump actuator and dose counter. In addition, we rely on a single contractor for commercial supply of botanical raw material. As a result, we may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of critical materials and components in the future. A delay or interruption by our suppliers may also harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the lead time needed to establish a relationship with a new supplier can be lengthy, and we may experience delays in meeting demand in the event we must switch to a new supplier. The time and effort to qualify for and, in some cases, obtain regulatory approval for a new supplier could result in additional costs, diversion of resources or reduced manufacturing yields, any of which would negatively impact our operating results. Our dependence on single-source suppliers exposes us to numerous risks, including the following: our suppliers may cease or reduce production or deliveries, raise prices or renegotiate terms; we may be unable to locate a suitable replacement supplier on acceptable terms or on a timely basis, or at all; and delays caused by supply issues may harm our reputation, frustrate our customers and cause them to turn to our competitors for future needs. A significant portion of our cash and cash equivalents are held at a small number of banks. A significant portion of our cash and cash equivalents is presently held at a small number of banks. Although our board has adopted a treasury policy requiring us to limit the amount of cash held by each banking group taking into account their credit ratings, we are subject to credit risk if any of these banks are unable to repay the balance in the applicable account or deliver our securities or if any bank should become bankrupt or otherwise insolvent. Any of the above events could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents Risks Related to Development and Regulatory Approval of Sativex and Our Product Candidates Clinical trials for our product candidates are expensive, time consuming, uncertain and susceptible to change, delay or termination. Clinical trials are expensive, time consuming and difficult to design and implement. Even if the results of our clinical trials are favorable, the clinical trials for a number of our product candidates are expected to continue for several years and may take significantly longer to complete. In addition, we, the FDA, an Institutional Review Board, or IRB, or other regulatory authorities, including state and local, may suspend, delay or terminate our clinical trials at any time, or the DEA could suspend or terminate the registrations and quota allotments we require in order to procure and handle controlled substances, for various reasons, including: •lack of effectiveness of any product candidate during clinical trials; •discovery of serious or unexpected toxicities or side effects experienced by trial participants or other safety issues; •slower than expected rates of subject recruitment and enrollment rates in clinical trials; •difficulty in retaining subjects who have initiated a clinical trial but may withdraw at any time due to adverse side effects from the therapy, insufficient efficacy, fatigue with the clinical trial process or for any other reason; •delays or inability in manufacturing or obtaining sufficient quantities of materials for use in clinical trials due to regulatory and manufacturing constraints; •inadequacy of or changes in our manufacturing process or product formulation; •delays in obtaining regulatory authorization to commence a trial, including "clinical holds" or delays requiring suspension or termination of a trial by a regulatory agency, such as the FDA, before or after a trial is commenced; •DEA-related recordkeeping, reporting, or security violations at a clinical site, leading the DEA or state authorities to suspend or revoke the site's controlled substance license and causing a delay or termination of planned or ongoing trials; •changes in applicable regulatory policies and regulation, including changes to requirements imposed on the extent, nature or timing of studies; •delays or failure in reaching agreement on acceptable terms in clinical trial contracts or protocols with prospective clinical trial sites; •delay or failure to supply product for use in clinical trials which conforms to regulatory specification; •unfavorable results from ongoing pre-clinical studies and clinical trials; •failure of our contract research organizations, or CROs, or other third-party contractors to comply with all contractual requirements or to perform their services in a timely or acceptable manner; •failure by us, our employees, our CROs or their employees to comply with all applicable FDA or other regulatory requirements relating to the conduct of clinical trials or the handling, storage, security and recordkeeping for controlled substances; •scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions; or •failure to design appropriate clinical trial protocols; or regulatory concerns with cannabinoid products generally and the potential for abuse. 18 Table of Contents Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. There is a high rate of failure for drug candidates proceeding through clinical trials. Generally, there is a high rate of failure for drug candidates proceeding through clinical trials. We may suffer significant setbacks in our clinical trials similar to the experience of a number of other companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, even after receiving promising results in earlier trials. Further, even if we view the results of a clinical trial to be positive, the FDA or other regulatory authorities may disagree with our interpretation of the data. For instance, because a large percentage of subjects in our pivotal trials for Sativex in cancer pain are being enrolled at sites outside the United States, differences in efficacy results between U.S. and ex-U.S. sites could cause the FDA to require additional trials. In the event that we obtain negative results from the Sativex cancer pain Phase 3 trials or from the planned Phase 3 clinical trial of Sativex for MS spasticity or cannot reach agreement with the FDA on the design of the Phase 3 trial for MS spasticity, or receive poor clinical results for our other product candidates, or the FDA places a clinical hold on our Phase 3 trials due to potential Chemistry, Manufacturing and Controls issues or other hurdles or does not approve our New Drug Application, or NDA, for Sativex, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue or obtain financing to continue our operations, our ability to execute on our current business plan will be materially impaired, our reputation in the industry and in the investment community would likely be significantly damaged and the price of our ADSs would likely decrease significantly. Serious adverse events or other safety risks could require us to abandon development and preclude, delay or limit approval of our product candidates, or limit the scope of any approved label or market acceptance. If Sativex or any of our product candidates, prior to or after any approval for commercial sale, cause serious or unexpected side effects, or are associated with other safety risks such as misuse, abuse or diversion, a number of potentially significant negative consequences could result, including: •regulatory authorities may interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials; •regulatory authorities may deny regulatory approval of our product candidates; •regulatory authorities may require certain labeling statements, such as warnings or contraindications or limitations on the indications for use, and/or impose restrictions on distribution in the form of a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS, in connection with approval, if any; •regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval, require more onerous labeling statements or impose a more restrictive REMS of any product that is approved; •we may be required to change the way the product is administered or conduct additional clinical trials; •our relationships with our collaboration partners may suffer; •we could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients; or •our reputation may suffer. We may voluntarily suspend or terminate our clinical trials if at any time we believe that they present an unacceptable risk to participants or if preliminary data demonstrate that our product candidates are unlikely to receive regulatory approval or unlikely to be successfully commercialized. To date, we have only voluntarily suspended clinical trials when recruitment of the target patients has proven to be too difficult. In addition, regulatory agencies, IRBs or data safety monitoring boards may at any time recommend the temporary or permanent discontinuation of our clinical trials or request 19 Table of Contents that we cease using investigators in the clinical trials if they believe that the clinical trials are not being conducted in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements, or that they present an unacceptable safety risk to participants. Although we have never been asked by a regulatory agency, IRB or data safety monitoring board to temporarily or permanently discontinue a clinical trial, if we elect or are forced to suspend or terminate a clinical trial of Sativex or any other of our product candidates, the commercial prospects for that product will be harmed and our ability to generate product revenue from that product may be delayed or eliminated. Furthermore, any of these events could prevent us or our partners from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product and could substantially increase the costs of commercializing our product candidates and impair our ability to generate revenue from the commercialization of these products either by us or by our collaboration partners. Our ability to research, develop and commercialize Sativex and our product candidates is dependent on our ability to maintain licenses relating to the cultivation, possession and supply of controlled substances. Our research and manufacturing facilities are located exclusively in the United Kingdom. In the United Kingdom, licenses to cultivate, possess and supply cannabis for medical research are granted by the Home Office on an annual basis. Although the Home Office has renewed our licenses each year since 1998, it may not do so in the future, in which case we may not be in a position to carry on our research and development program in the United Kingdom. In addition, we are required to maintain our existing commercial licenses to cultivate, produce and supply cannabis. However, if the Home Office were not prepared to renew such licenses, we would be unable to manufacture and distribute our products on a commercial basis in the United Kingdom or beyond. In order to carry out research in countries other than the United Kingdom, similar licenses to those outlined above are required to be issued by the relevant authority in each country. In addition, we will be required to obtain licenses to export from the United Kingdom and to import into the recipient country. To date, we have obtained necessary import and export licenses to 34 countries. Although we have an established track record of successfully obtaining such licenses as required, this may change in the future. In the United States, the DEA regulates the cultivation, possession and supply of cannabis for medical research and/or commercial development, including the requirement of annual registrations to manufacture or distribute pharmaceutical products derived from cannabis extracts. We do not currently conduct any manufacturing or repackaging/relabeling of either Sativex or its active ingredients, or any product candidates, in the United States. In the event that we sought to do so in the future, a decision to manufacture, or supply cannabis extracts for medical research or commercial development in the United States would require that we and/or our contract manufacturers maintain such registrations, and be subject to other regulatory requirements such as manufacturing quotas, and if the DEA failed to issue or renew such registrations, we would be unable to manufacture and distribute any product in the United States on a commercial basis. Any failure by us to comply with existing regulations could harm our reputation and operating results. We are subject to extensive regulation by U.S. federal and state and foreign governments in each of the markets where we currently sell Sativex or in markets where we have product candidates progressing through the approval process. We must adhere to all regulatory requirements including the FDA's Good Laboratory Practice, current Good Manufacturing Practice, or cGMP, and Good Clinical Practice requirements. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with applicable regulations, including FDA pre-or post-approval cGMP requirements, then the FDA or other foreign regulatory authorities could sanction us. Even if a drug is FDA-approved, regulatory authorities may impose significant restrictions on a product's indicated uses or marketing or impose ongoing requirements for potentially costly post-marketing trials. 20 Table of Contents If Sativex, or any of our other product candidates, is approved in the United States, it will be subject to ongoing regulatory requirements for labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, sampling, record-keeping and submission of safety and other post-market information, including both federal and state requirements in the United States. In addition, manufacturers and manufacturers' facilities are required to comply with extensive FDA requirements, including ensuring that quality control and manufacturing procedures conform to cGMP. As such, we and our contract manufacturers (in the event contract manufacturers are appointed in the future) are subject to continual review and periodic inspections to assess compliance with cGMP. Accordingly, we and others with whom we work must continue to expend time, money and effort in all areas of regulatory compliance, including manufacturing, production, quality control and quality assurance. We will also be required to report certain adverse reactions and production problems, if any, to the FDA, and to comply with requirements concerning advertising and promotion for our products. Promotional communications with respect to prescription drugs are subject to a variety of legal and regulatory restrictions and must be consistent with the information in the product's approved label. As such, we may not promote our products for indications or uses for which they do not have FDA approval. If a regulatory agency discovers previously unknown problems with a product, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, or disagrees with the promotion, marketing or labeling of the product, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product or us, including requiring withdrawal of the product from the market. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency or enforcement authority may: •issue warning letters; •impose civil or criminal penalties; •suspend regulatory approval; •suspend any of our ongoing clinical trials; •refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications submitted by us; •impose restrictions on our operations, including closing our contract manufacturers' facilities, if any; or •seize or detain products or require a product recall. Any government investigation of alleged violations of law could require us to expend significant time and resources in response, and could generate negative publicity. Any failure to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements may significantly and adversely affect our ability to commercialize and generate revenue from Sativex and our product candidates. If regulatory sanctions are applied or if regulatory approval is withdrawn, the value of our business and our operating results will be adversely affected. Additionally, if we are unable to generate revenue from sales of Sativex, our potential for achieving profitability will be diminished and the capital necessary to fund our operations will be increased. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management's attention from the operation of our business and damage our reputation. We expend significant resources on compliance efforts and such expenses are unpredictable and might adversely affect our results. Changing laws, regulations and standards might also create uncertainty, higher expenses and increase insurance costs. As a result, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment might result in increased management and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. 21 Table of Contents The anticipated development of a REMS for Sativex and our other product candidates could cause delays in the approval process and would add additional layers of regulatory requirements that could impact our ability to commercialize Sativex and our other product candidates in the United States and reduce their market potential. As a condition of approval of an NDA, the FDA may require a REMS to ensure that the benefits of the drug outweigh the potential risks. REMS elements can include medication guides, communication plans for health care professionals, and elements to assure safe use, or ETASU. ETASU can include, but are not limited to, special training or certification for prescribing or dispensing, dispensing only under certain circumstances, special monitoring, and the use of patient registries. Moreover, product approval may require substantial post-approval testing and surveillance to monitor the drug's safety or efficacy. We may be required to adopt a REMS for Sativex and our other product candidates to ensure that the benefits outweigh the risks of abuse, misuse, diversion and other potential safety concerns. Even if abuse, misuse and diversion are not as high as for other cannabinoid products, there can be no assurance that the FDA will approve a manageable REMS for Sativex and our product candidates, which could create material and significant limits on our ability to successfully commercialize Sativex and our product candidates in the United States. Delays in the REMS approval process could result in delays in the NDA approval process. In addition, as part of the REMS, the FDA could require significant restrictions, such as restrictions on the prescription, distribution and patient use of the product, which could significantly impact our ability to effectively commercialize Sativex and our product candidates, and dramatically reduce their market potential thereby adversely impacting our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if initial REMS are not highly restrictive, if, after launch, Sativex and our product candidates were to be subject to significant abuse/non-medical use or diversion from licit channels, this could lead to negative regulatory consequences, including a more restrictive REMS. If we are found in violation of federal or state "fraud and abuse" laws, we may be required to pay a penalty and/or be suspended from participation in federal or state health care programs, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. After we obtain marketing approval for our products in the United States, if any, we will be subject to various federal and state health care "fraud and abuse" laws, including anti-kickback laws, false claims laws and other laws intended to reduce fraud and abuse in federal and state health care programs, which could affect us particularly upon successful commercialization of our products in the United States. The Medicare and Medicaid Patient Protection Act of 1987, or federal Anti-Kickback Statute, makes it illegal for any person, including a prescription drug manufacturer (or a party acting on its behalf), to knowingly and willfully solicit, receive, offer or pay any remuneration that is intended to induce the referral of business, including the purchase, order or prescription of a particular drug for which payment may be made under a federal health care program, such as Medicare or Medicaid. Under federal government regulations, some arrangements, known as safe harbors, are deemed not to violate the federal Anti-Kickback Statute. Although we seek to structure our business arrangements in compliance with all applicable requirements, these laws are broadly written, and it is often difficult to determine precisely how the law will be applied in specific circumstances. Accordingly, it is possible that our practices may be challenged under the federal Anti-Kickback Statute. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly and willfully presenting or causing to be presented for payment to third-party payers, including government payers, claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services that were not provided as claimed, or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Cases have been brought under false claims laws alleging that off-label promotion of pharmaceutical products or the provision of kickbacks has resulted in the submission of false claims to governmental health care programs. Under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, we are prohibited from knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program, including private payers, or knowingly and willfully falsifying, 22 Table of Contents concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for health care benefits, items or services. Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and/or exclusion or suspension from federal and state health care programs such as Medicare and Medicaid and debarment from contracting with the U.S. government. In addition, private individuals have the ability to bring actions on behalf of the government under the federal False Claims Act as well as under the false claims laws of several states. Many states have adopted laws similar to the federal anti-kickback statute, some of which apply to the referral of patients for health care services reimbursed by any source, not just governmental payers. In addition, California and a few other states have passed laws that require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the April 2003 Office of Inspector General Compliance Program Guidance for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and/or the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America Code on Interactions with Healthcare Professionals. In addition, several states impose other marketing restrictions or require pharmaceutical companies to make marketing or price disclosures to the state. There are ambiguities as to what is required to comply with these state requirements and if we fail to comply with an applicable state law requirement we could be subject to penalties. Neither the government nor the courts have provided definitive guidance on the application of fraud and abuse laws to our business. Law enforcement authorities are increasingly focused on enforcing these laws, and it is possible that some of our practices may be challenged under these laws. While we believe we have structured our business arrangements to comply with these laws, it is possible that the government could allege violations of, or convict us of violating, these laws. If we are found in violation of one of these laws, we could be required to pay a penalty and could be suspended or excluded from participation in federal or state health care programs, and our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Risks Related to Controlled Substances Controlled substance legislation differs between countries and legislation in certain countries may restrict or limit our ability to sell Sativex and our product candidates. Most countries are parties to the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs 1961, which governs international trade and domestic control of narcotic substances, including cannabis extracts. Countries may interpret and implement their treaty obligations in a way that creates a legal obstacle to our obtaining marketing approval for Sativex and our other products in those countries. These countries may not be willing or able to amend or otherwise modify their laws and regulations to permit Sativex or our other products to be marketed, or achieving such amendments to the laws and regulations may take a prolonged period of time. For example, we are currently unable to file a regulatory application in Mexico due to a national law which the regulators consider prevents the approval of a cannabis-based medicine. Until recently, France had similar legal obstacles in place preventing the filing of a regulatory application for Sativex, but that legal obstacle was satisfactorily resolved in 2013 and the French regulatory authorities have recently recommended approval of Sativex. In the case of countries with similar obstacles, we would be unable to market Sativex and our product candidates in countries in the near future or perhaps at all if the laws and regulations in those countries do not change. Sativex and the other product candidates we are developing will be subject to U.S. controlled substance laws and regulations and failure to comply with these laws and regulations, or the cost of compliance with these laws and regulations, may adversely affect the results of our business operations, both during clinical development and post approval, and our financial condition. Sativex and certain product candidates we are developing contain controlled substances as defined in the federal Controlled Substances Act of 1970, or CSA. Controlled substances that are 23 Table of Contents pharmaceutical products are subject to a high degree of regulation under the CSA, which establishes, among other things, certain registration, manufacturing quotas, security, recordkeeping, reporting, import, export and other requirements administered by the DEA. The DEA classifies controlled substances into five schedules: Schedule I, II, III, IV or V substances. Schedule I substances by definition have a high potential for abuse, no currently "accepted medical use" in the United States, lack accepted safety for use under medical supervision, and may not be prescribed, marketed or sold in the United States. Pharmaceutical products approved for use in the United States may be listed as Schedule II, III, IV or V, with Schedule II substances considered to present the highest potential for abuse or dependence and Schedule V substances the lowest relative risk of abuse among such substances. Schedule I and II drugs are subject to the strictest controls under the CSA, including manufacturing and procurement quotas, security requirements and criteria for importation. In addition, dispensing of Schedule II drugs is further restricted. For example, they may not be refilled without a new prescription. While cannabis is a Schedule I controlled substance, products approved for medical use in the United States that contain cannabis or cannabis extracts must be placed in Schedules II-V, since approval by the FDA satisfies the "accepted medical use" requirement. If and when Sativex receives FDA approval, the DEA will make a scheduling determination and place it in a schedule other than Schedule I in order for it to be prescribed to patients in the United States. If approved by the FDA, we expect the finished dosage form of Sativex to be listed by the DEA as a Schedule II or III controlled substance. Consequently, its manufacture, importation, exportation, domestic distribution, storage, sale and legitimate use will be subject to a significant degree of regulation by the DEA. In addition, the scheduling process may take one or more years, thereby delaying the launch of Sativex in the United States. Furthermore, if the FDA, DEA, or any foreign regulatory authority determines that Sativex may have potential for abuse, it may require us to generate more clinical or other data than we currently anticipate to establish whether or to what extent the substance has an abuse potential, which could increase the cost and/or delay the launch of Sativex. DEA registration and inspection of facilities. Facilities conducting research, manufacturing, distributing, importing or exporting, or dispensing controlled substances must be registered (licensed) to perform these activities and have the security, control, recordkeeping, reporting and inventory mechanisms required by the DEA to prevent drug loss and diversion. All these facilities must renew their registrations annually, except dispensing facilities, which must renew every three years. The DEA conducts periodic inspections of certain registered establishments that handle controlled substances. Obtaining the necessary registrations may result in delay of the importation, manufacturing or distribution of Sativex. Furthermore, failure to maintain compliance with the CSA, particularly non-compliance resulting in loss or diversion, can result in regulatory action that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The DEA may seek civil penalties, refuse to renew necessary registrations, or initiate proceedings to restrict, suspend or revoke those registrations. In certain circumstances, violations could lead to criminal proceedings. State-controlled substances laws. Individual states have also established controlled substance laws and regulations. Though state-controlled substances laws often mirror federal law, because the states are separate jurisdictions, they may separately schedule Sativex and our product candidates as well. While some states automatically schedule a drug based on federal action, other states schedule drugs through rulemaking or a legislative action. State scheduling may delay commercial sale of any product for which we obtain federal regulatory approval and adverse scheduling could have a material adverse effect on the commercial attractiveness of such product. We or our partners must also obtain separate state registrations, permits or licenses in order to be able to obtain, handle, and distribute controlled substances for clinical trials or commercial sale, and failure to meet applicable regulatory requirements could lead to enforcement and sanctions by the states in addition to those from the DEA or otherwise arising under federal law. 24 Table of Contents Clinical trials. Because Sativex contains cannabis extracts, which are Schedule I substances, to conduct clinical trials with Sativex in the United States prior to approval, each of our research sites must submit a research protocol to the DEA and obtain and maintain a DEA researcher registration that will allow those sites to handle and dispense Sativex and to obtain the product from our importer. If the DEA delays or denies the grant of a research registration to one or more research sites, the clinical trial could be significantly delayed, and we could lose clinical trial sites. The importer for the clinical trials must also obtain a Schedule I importer registration and an import permit for each import. We do not currently conduct any manufacturing or repackaging/relabeling of either Sativex or its active ingredients (i.e., the cannabis extract) in the United States. Sativex is imported in its fully-finished, packaged and labeled dosage form. Importation. If Sativex is approved and classified as a Schedule II or III substance, an importer can import for commercial purposes if it obtains an importer registration and files an application for an import permit for each import. The DEA provides annual assessments/estimates to the International Narcotics Control Board which guides the DEA in the amounts of controlled substances that the DEA authorizes to be imported. The failure to identify an importer or obtain the necessary import authority, including specific quantities, could affect the availability of Sativex and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, an application for a Schedule II importer registration must be published in the Federal Register, and there is a waiting period for third party comments to be submitted. If Sativex is approved and classified as a Schedule II controlled substance, federal law may prohibit the import of the substance for commercial purposes. If Sativex is listed as a Schedule II substance, we will not be allowed to import the drug for commercial purposes unless the DEA determines that domestic supplies are inadequate or there is inadequate domestic competition among domestic manufacturers for the substance as defined by the DEA. Moreover, Schedule I controlled substances, including BDSs, have never been registered with the DEA for importation commercial purposes, only for scientific and research needs. Therefore, if neither Sativex nor its BDSs could be imported, Sativex would have to be wholly manufactured in the United States, and we would need to secure a manufacturer that would be required to obtain and maintain a separate DEA registration for that activity. Manufacture in the United States. If, because of a Schedule II classification or voluntarily, we were to conduct manufacturing or repackaging/relabeling in the United States, our contract manufacturers would be subject to the DEA's annual manufacturing and procurement quota requirements. Additionally, regardless of the scheduling of Sativex, cannabis and the BDSs comprising the active ingredient in the final dosage form are currently Schedule I controlled substances and would be subject to such quotas as these substances could remain listed on Schedule I. The annual quota allocated to us or our contract manufacturers for the active ingredient in Sativex may not be sufficient to meet commercial demand or complete clinical trials. Consequently, any delay or refusal by the DEA in establishing our, or our contract manufacturers', procurement and/or production quota for controlled substances could delay or stop our clinical trials or product launches, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and operations. Distribution in the United States. If Sativex is scheduled as Schedule II or III, we would also need to identify wholesale distributors with the appropriate DEA registrations and authority to distribute the product to pharmacies and other health care providers. We would need to identify distributors to distribute the product to pharmacies; these distributors would need to obtain Schedule II or III distribution registrations. The failure to obtain, or delay in obtaining, or the loss any of those registrations could result in increased costs to us. If Sativex is a Schedule II drug, pharmacies would have to maintain enhanced security with alarms and monitoring systems and they must adhere to recordkeeping and inventory requirements. This, coupled with the fact that Sativex must be 25 Table of Contents refrigerated, may discourage some pharmacies from carrying the product. Furthermore, state and federal enforcement actions, regulatory requirements, and legislation intended to reduce prescription drug abuse, such as the requirement that physicians consult a state prescription drug monitoring program may make physicians less willing to prescribe, and pharmacies to dispense, Schedule II products. The approval and use of "medical marijuana" in the U.S. may impact our business. There is a substantial amount of change occurring in various states of the United States regarding the use of "medical marijuana." While marijuana is a Schedule 1 substance as defined under federal law, and its possession and use is not permitted according to federal law, a number of individual states have enacted state laws to enable possession and use of marijuana for medical purposes, and in some states for recreational purposes also. Our business is quite distinct from that of crude herbal marijuana, however, our prospects may be impacted by developments of these laws at the state level in the United States. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property We may be forced to litigate to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, and/or the intellectual property rights of our licensors. We may be forced to litigate to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights against infringement and unauthorized use by competitors, and to protect our trade secrets. In so doing, we may place our intellectual property at risk of being invalidated, unenforceable, or limited or narrowed in scope. Further, an adverse result in any litigation or defense proceedings may place pending applications at risk of non-issuance. In addition, if any licensor fails to enforce or defend their intellectual property rights, this may adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates and prevent competitors from making, using, and selling competing products. Any such litigation could be very costly and could distract our management from focusing on operating our business. The existence and/or outcome of any such litigation could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Further, because the content of much of our intellectual property concerns cannabis and other activities that are not legal in some state jurisdictions, we may face additional difficulties in defending our intellectual property rights. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential and proprietary information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our ADSs. We may not be able to protect our proprietary technology in the marketplace. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, protect our trade secrets and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. We rely upon a combination of patents, trade secret protection (i.e., know how), and confidentiality agreements to protect the intellectual property of Sativex and our product candidates. The strengths of patents in the pharmaceutical field involves complex legal and scientific questions and can be uncertain. Where appropriate, we seek patent protection for certain aspects of our products and technology. Filing, prosecuting and defending patents throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive, so our policy is to patent commercially potential technology in jurisdictions with significant commercial opportunities. However, patent protection may not be available for some of the products or technology we are developing. If we must spend significant time and money protecting or enforcing our patents, designing around patents held by 26 Table of Contents others or licensing, potentially for large fees, patents or other proprietary rights held by others, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be harmed. We may not develop additional proprietary products that are patentable. The patent positions of pharmaceutical products are complex and uncertain. The scope and extent of patent protection for Sativex and our product candidates are particularly uncertain. To date, our principal product candidates, including Sativex, have been based on specific formulations of certain previously known cannabinoids found in nature in the cannabis sativa plant. We anticipate that the products we develop in the future will continue to include or be based on the same or other naturally occurring compounds, as well as synthetic compounds we may discover. Although we have sought and expect to continue to seek patent protection for our product candidates, their methods of use, and methods of manufacture, any or all of them may not be subject to effective patent protection. Publication of information related to Sativex and our product candidates by us or others may prevent us from obtaining or enforcing patents relating to these products and product candidates. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar products, may duplicate our products, or may design around our patent rights. In addition, any of our issued patents may be declared invalid. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, we may face competition from companies who attempt to create a generic product to compete with Sativex. We may also face competition from companies who develop a substantially similar product to Sativex or one of our other product candidates, that is not covered by any of our patents. Many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and enforcing intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions. The legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of patents and other intellectual property rights, particularly those relating to pharmaceuticals, which could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents or marketing of competing products in violation of our proprietary rights generally. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial cost and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business. We may be unable to adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. We rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary know-how and technological advances, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisors to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights. Failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection, or failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could enable competitors to develop generic products or use our proprietary information to develop other products that compete with our products or cause additional, material adverse effects upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. If third parties claim that intellectual property used by us infringes upon their intellectual property, our operating profits could be adversely affected. There is a substantial amount of litigation, both within and outside the United States, involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical industry. We may, from time to time, be notified of claims that we are infringing upon patents, trademarks, copyrights, or other intellectual property rights owned by third parties, and we cannot provide assurances that other companies will not, in the future, pursue such infringement claims against us or any third-party 27 Table of Contents proprietary technologies we have licensed. If we were found to infringe upon a patent or other intellectual property right, or if we failed to obtain or renew a license under a patent or other intellectual property right from a third party, or if a third party that we were licensing technologies from was found to infringe upon a patent or other intellectual property rights of another third party, we may be required to pay damages, including triple damages if the infringement is found to be willful, suspend the manufacture of certain products or reengineer or rebrand our products, if feasible, or we may be unable to enter certain new product markets. Any such claims could also be expensive and time consuming to defend and divert management's attention and resources. Our competitive position could suffer as a result. In addition, if we have declined to enter into a valid non-disclosure or assignment agreement for any reason, we may not own the invention or our intellectual property and may not be adequately protected. Although we have reviewed certain third-party patents and patent filings that we believe may be relevant to Sativex, we have not conducted a full freedom-to-operate search or analysis for Sativex, and we may not be aware of patents or pending or future patent applications that, if issued, would block us from commercializing Sativex. Thus, we cannot guarantee that Sativex, or our commercialization thereof, does not and will not infringe any third party's intellectual property. Risks Related to Ownership of our American Depositary Shares (ADSs) and Ordinary Shares The price of our ADSs and ordinary shares may be volatile. Many factors may have a material adverse effect on the market price of the ADSs, including, but not limited to: •the loss of any of our key scientific or management personnel; •announcements of the failure to obtain regulatory approvals or receipt of a complete response letter from the FDA; •announcements of restricted label indications or patient populations, or changes or delays in regulatory review processes; •announcements of therapeutic innovations or new products by us or our competitors; •adverse actions taken by regulatory agencies with respect to our clinical trials, manufacturing supply chain or sales and marketing activities; •changes or developments in laws or regulations applicable to Sativex and our product candidates; •any adverse changes to our relationship with licensors, manufacturers or suppliers; •the failure of our testing and clinical trials; •the failure to retain our existing, or obtain new, collaboration partners; •announcements concerning our competitors or the pharmaceutical industry in general; •the achievement of expected product sales and profitability; •the failure to obtain reimbursements for our products or price reductions; •manufacture, supply or distribution shortages; •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; •our cash position; •changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; •potential acquisitions; 28 Table of Contents •the trading volume of ADSs on Nasdaq and of our ordinary shares on the Alternative Investment Market, or AIM; •sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares by us, our executive officers and directors or our shareholders in the future; •general economic and market conditions and overall fluctuations in the United States equity markets; and •changes in accounting principles. In addition, the stock market in general, and Nasdaq in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our ADSs, regardless of our actual operating performance. The liquidity of our ADSs and ordinary shares may have an adverse effect on share price. As at September 30, 2013, we had 177,521,487 ordinary shares outstanding. 43,741,692 of these shares are held as ADSs and 133,779,795 held as ordinary shares (which are not held in the form of ADSs). In connection with our May 2013 initial public offering, or IPO, of ADSs on the Nasdaq Global Market, we issued 3,678,000 million ADSs. There is a risk that there may not be sufficient liquidity in the market to accommodate significant increases in selling activity or the sale of a large block of our securities. Our ADSs have historically had limited trading volume, which may also result in volatility. Additionally, our ADSs are traded on Nasdaq and our ordinary shares are traded on the AIM. We cannot predict the effect of this dual listing on the value of our ordinary shares and ADSs. However, the dual listing of our ordinary shares and ADSs may dilute the liquidity of these securities in one or both markets and may adversely affect the development of an active trading market for the ADSs in the United States. The price of the ADSs could also be adversely affected by trading in our ordinary shares on the AIM. We may decide in the future to delist our ordinary shares from the AIM. We cannot predict the effect such delisting of our ordinary shares would have on the market price of the ADSs. Securities traded on the AIM may carry a higher risk than shares traded on other exchanges that may impact the value of your investment. Our ordinary shares are currently traded on the AIM. Investment in equities traded on the AIM is perceived to carry a higher risk than an investment in equities quoted on exchanges with more stringent listing requirements, such as the London Stock Exchange, New York Stock Exchange or Nasdaq. This is because the AIM imposes less stringent corporate governance and ongoing reporting requirements than those other exchanges. In addition, the AIM requires only semi-annual, rather than quarterly, financial reporting. You should be aware that the value of our ordinary shares may be influenced by many factors, some of which may be specific to us and some of which may affect AIM-listed companies generally, including the depth and liquidity of the market, our performance, a large or small volume of trading in our ordinary shares, legislative changes and general economic, political or regulatory conditions, and that the prices may be volatile and subject to extensive fluctuations. Therefore, the market price of our ordinary shares underlying the ADSs may not reflect the underlying value of our company. Substantial future sales of our ordinary shares or the ADSs in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the price of the ADSs to decline. Sales of our ordinary shares or ADSs in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of the ADSs to decline. The ordinary shares held by our directors, 29 Table of Contents including our officers, are available for sale since the lock-up period at the time of the Nasdaq IPO has now expired. If any of our large shareholders or members of our management team seek to sell substantial amounts of our ADSs, particularly if these sales are in a rapid or disorderly manner, or other investors perceive that these sales could occur, the market price of our ADSs could decrease significantly. You may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our ordinary shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise your right to vote. As a holder of ADSs, you will not have the right to vote the shares underlying the ADSs directly unless you cancel the ADS in accordance with the terms of the Deposit Agreement and vote the underlying shares at the applicable shareholders meeting. Holders of the ADSs will appoint the depositary or its nominee as their representative to exercise the voting rights attaching to the ordinary shares represented by the ADSs. You may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote, and it is possible that you, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. You may not receive distributions on our ordinary shares represented by the ADSs or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to holders of ADSs. The depositary for the ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of our ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, in accordance with the limitations set forth in the deposit agreement, it may be unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to holders of ADSs. We have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of the ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of the ADSs. This means that you may not receive the distributions we make on our ordinary shares or any value from them if it is unlawful or impractical to make them available to you. These restrictions may have a material adverse effect on the value of your ADSs. As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from a number of rules under the U.S. securities laws and are permitted to file less information with the Securities and Exchange Commission than U.S. companies. This may limit the information available to holders of the ADSs. We are a "foreign private issuer," as defined in the Securities and Exchange Commission's, or SEC, rules and regulations and, consequently, we are not subject to all of the disclosure requirements applicable to companies organized within the United States. For example, we are exempt from certain rules under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, that regulate disclosure obligations and procedural requirements related to the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations applicable to a security registered under the Exchange Act. In addition, our officers and directors are exempt from the reporting and "short-swing" profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and related rules with respect to their purchases and sales of our securities. Moreover, we are not required to file periodic reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as U.S. public companies. Accordingly, there may be less publicly available information concerning our company than there is for U.S. public companies. As a foreign private issuer, we will file an annual report on Form 20-F within four months of the close of each year ended September 30 and reports on Form 6-K relating to certain material events promptly after we publicly announce these events. However, because of the above exemptions for foreign private issuers, our shareholders will not be afforded the same protections or information generally available to investors holding shares in public companies organized in the United States. 30 Table of Contents As a foreign private issuer, we are not subject to certain Nasdaq corporate governance rules applicable to U.S. listed companies. We rely on a provision in Nasdaq's Listed Company Manual that allows us to follow English corporate law and the Companies Act 2006 with regard to certain aspects of corporate governance. This allows us to follow certain corporate governance practices that differ in significant respects from the corporate governance requirements applicable to U.S. companies listed on Nasdaq. For example, we are exempt from Nasdaq regulations that require a listed U.S. company to: •have a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors; •require non-management directors to meet on a regular basis without management present; •promptly disclose any waivers of the code for directors or executive officers that should address certain specified items; •have an independent nominating committee; •solicit proxies and provide proxy statements for all shareholder meetings; and •seek shareholder approval for the implementation of certain equity compensation plans and issuances of ordinary shares. As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted to, and we will, follow home country practice in lieu of the above requirements. In accordance with our Nasdaq listing, our Audit Committee is required to comply with the provisions of Section 301 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and Rule 10A-3 of the Exchange Act, both of which are also applicable to Nasdaq-listed U.S. companies. Because we are a foreign private issuer, however, our Audit Committee is not subject to additional Nasdaq requirements applicable to listed U.S. companies, including an affirmative determination that all members of the Audit Committee are "independent," using more stringent criteria than those applicable to us as a foreign private issuer. If we fail to establish and maintain proper internal controls, our ability to produce fairly presented financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired. Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, requires that beginning with our annual report for the year ending September 30, 2014, management assess and report annually on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and identify any material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. Although Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires our independent registered public accounting firm to issue an annual report that addresses the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, we are an "emerging growth company," as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Start-ups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act, and have elected to take advantage of the exemption from the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. This may increase the risk that weaknesses or deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting go undetected and may make it more difficult for investors and securities analysts to evaluate our company. We cannot predict if investors will find the ADSs less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. We will not be required to comply with SEC rules that implement Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act until the earlier of such time as we are no longer an emerging growth company or our annual report for our year ending September 30, 2018. The presence of material weaknesses could result in financial statement errors which, in turn, could lead to errors in our financial reports, delays in our financial reporting, we could require us to restate our operating results or our auditors may be required to issue a qualified audit report. We might not identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal controls in connection with 31 Table of Contents evaluating our compliance with Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, we will need to expend significant resources and provide significant management oversight. Implementing any appropriate changes to our internal controls may require specific compliance training of our directors and employees, entail substantial costs in order to modify our existing accounting systems, take a significant period of time to complete and divert management's attention from other business concerns. These changes may not, however, be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal control. If either we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting or, at the appropriate time, our independent auditors are unwilling or unable to provide us with an unqualified report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, investors may lose confidence in our operating results, the price of our ADSs could decline and we may be subject to litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. In addition, if we are unable to meet the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we may not be able to remain listed on the Nasdaq. We incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a company whose ADSs are publicly traded in the United States, and our management is required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. As a company whose ADSs commenced trading in the United States in May 2013, we incur significant legal, accounting, insurance and other expenses which we did not previously incur. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform, Consumer Protection Act and related rules implemented by the SEC and Nasdaq, have imposed various requirements on public companies including requiring establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls. Our management and other personnel need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations increase our legal and financial compliance costs, relative to companies that are listed solely in the United Kingdom, and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We estimate that our annual compliance expenses are approximately £1.0 million in each of the next two fiscal years. For example, these rules and regulations have made it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to incur substantial costs to maintain the same or similar coverage. These laws and regulations could also make it more difficult and expensive for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as our executive officers. Furthermore, if we are unable to satisfy our obligations as a public company, we could be subject to delisting of the ADSs, fines, sanctions and other regulatory action and potentially civil litigation. U.S. investors may have difficulty enforcing civil liabilities against our Company, our directors or members of senior management and the experts named in this Annual Report. Our directors and the experts named in this Annual Report are non-residents of the United States, and all or a substantial portion of the assets of such persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible to serve process on such persons or us in the United States or to enforce judgments obtained in U.S. courts against them or us based on civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States. Mayer Brown International LLP, our English solicitors, advised us that there is doubt as to whether English courts would enforce certain civil liabilities under U.S. securities laws in original actions or judgments of U.S. courts based upon these civil liability provisions. In addition, awards of punitive damages in actions brought in the United States or elsewhere may be unenforceable in the United Kingdom. An award for monetary damages under the U.S. securities laws would be considered punitive if it does not seek to compensate the claimant for loss or damage suffered and is intended to punish the defendant. The enforceability of any judgment in the United Kingdom will depend on the particular facts of the case as well as the laws and treaties in effect at the 32 Table of Contents time. The United States and the United Kingdom do not currently have a treaty providing for recognition and enforcement of judgments (other than arbitration awards) in civil and commercial matters. The rights of our shareholders may differ from the rights typically offered to shareholders of a U.S. corporation. We are incorporated under English law. The rights of holders of ordinary shares and, therefore, certain of the rights of holders of ADSs, are governed by English law, including the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, and by our Articles. These rights differ in certain respects from the rights of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. See "Description of Share Capital—Differences in Corporate Law" in this Annual Report for a description of the principal differences between the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to us and, for example, the Delaware General Corporation Law relating to shareholders' rights and protections. 