Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business and us. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. In addition, please read “Forward-Looking Statements” in this Form 10-K, where we describe additional uncertainties associated with our business and the forward-looking statements included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. Please note that additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business and operations. Risks Related to Frontier We filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code on April 10, 2008. During our Chapter 11 proceedings, our operations, including our ability to execute our business plan, are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with bankruptcy. Risks and uncertainties associated with our Chapter 11 proceedings include the following: · actions and decisions of our creditors and other third parties with interests in our Chapter 11 proceedings may be inconsistent with our plans; · our ability to obtain court approval with respect to motions in the Chapter 11 proceedings prosecuted from time to time; · our ability to develop, prosecute, confirm and consummate a plan of reorganization with respect to the Chapter 11 proceedings; · our ability to retain management and other key individuals; · our ability to obtain and maintain normal terms with bank card processors and credit card companies, vendors and service providers; · our ability to maintain contracts that are critical to our operations; and · risks associated with third parties seeking and obtaining court approval to terminate or shorten the exclusivity period for us to propose and confirm a plan of reorganization, to appoint a Chapter 11 trustee or to convert the cases to Chapter 7 cases. These risks and uncertainties could affect our business and operations in various ways. For example, negative events or publicity associated with our Chapter 11 proceedings could adversely affect our sales of tickets and the relationship with our customers, as well as with vendors and employees, which in turn could adversely affect our operations and financial condition, particularly if the Chapter 11 proceedings are protracted. Also, transactions outside of the ordinary course of business are subject to the prior approval of the Bankruptcy Court, which may limit our ability to respond timely to certain events or take advantage of certain opportunities. Because of the risks and uncertainties associated with our Chapter 11 proceedings, the ultimate impact that events that occur during these proceedings will have on our business, financial condition and results of operations cannot be accurately predicted or quantified, and there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We face significant liquidity challenges which could impact our ability to continue our operations. We have substantial liquidity needs in the operation of our business and face significant liquidity challenges due to historically high aircraft fuel prices, low passenger yields, credit card processor holdbacks and cash reserves and other cost pressures. Accordingly, we believe that our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments will 12 remain under pressure during 2008 and thereafter. We are uncertain we will be able to obtain debtor in possession financing during our Chapter 11 proceedings. Accordingly, as we continue to seek debtor in possession financing, we will also attempt to address our liquidity concerns through the sale of aircraft and other assets, the sale and leaseback of aircraft and other assets, rejection of Republic Airlines contract, negotiations with our credit card processors and other liquidity enhancement opportunities. We cannot guarantee that these efforts to raise cash and improve our liquidity will be successful, in which case we could be forced to discontinue our operations The implementation of our business plan cannot keep pace with fuel costs. During the last year, we implemented cost and profit improvement initiatives. We have increased passenger revenue by 17.4% over the prior year and our passenger yields by 4.5%. The increase in our passenger yields can be primarily attributed to the increase in our load factor year-over-year by 4.9 points and an increase of our average fare from $102.59 to $103.71 or 1.1%. We are reviewing our plan and anticipate reducing capacity in September 2008 related to the sale of aircraft. The cost reduction and revenue improvement benefits we are realizing under our plan are, however, being outpaced by historically high aircraft fuel prices. We continue to operate in a weak pricing environment, which limits our ability to increase fares to offset high fuel costs. We cannot assure you that we will achieve the targeted benefits under our business plan or that these benefits, even if achieved, will be adequate for us to maintain financial viability due to fuel costs. We are vulnerable to increases in aircraft fuel costs. High oil prices have had a significant adverse impact on our results of operations over the past two fiscal years. We cannot predict our future cost and availability of fuel, or the impact of disruptions in oil supplies or refinery productivity based on natural disasters, which affect our ability to compete. The unavailability of adequate fuel supplies could have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. In addition, larger airlines may have a competitive advantage because they pay lower prices for fuel and other airlines, such as Southwest Airlines, may have substantial fuel hedges that give them a competitive advantage. Because fuel costs are a significant portion of our operating costs, substantial changes in fuel costs materially affect our operating results. Fuel prices continue to be susceptible to, among other factors, speculative trading in the commodities market, political unrest in various parts of the world, Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries policy, the rapid growth of economies in China and India, the levels of inventory carried by industries, the amounts of reserves built by governments, refining capacity, and weather. These and other factors that impact the global supply and demand for aircraft fuel may affect our financial performance due to its high sensitivity to fuel prices. A one cent change in the cost of each gallon of fuel would impact operating expenses by approximately $1.9 million per year (based on our current fleet and aircraft fuel consumption). Our liquidity will be negatively impacted by the record high price of fuel, which as of June 23, 2008, was $4.22 per gallon Fuel is a major component of our operating expenses, accounting for 35.3% of our total operating expenses for the year ended March 31, 2008, up from 31.8% for the year ended March 31, 2007. On an actual basis, mainline fuel costs including the impact of hedging increased to $446.8 million, representing an average cost of $2.45 per gallon, from $343.1 million, or $2.12 per gallon, over the same periods. Our ability to pass on increased fuel costs has been and may continue to be limited by economic and competitive conditions. Although we implemented a fuel hedging program in 2002, under which we entered into Gulf Coast jet fuel and West Texas Intermediate crude derivative contracts that partially protected us against significant increases in fuel prices, we currently do not hold any hedge positions because all outstanding hedges were settled in May 2008 due to our Chapter 11 proceedings. We depend heavily on the Denver market to be successful. Our business strategy has historically focused on adding flights to and from our Denver base of operations. Currently, 99% of our flights originate or depart from DIA (this does not include seasonal non-hub flying to Mexico). A reduction in our share of the Denver market, increased competition, or reduced passenger traffic to or from Denver could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our dependence on a hub system operating out of DIA makes us more susceptible 13 to adverse weather conditions and other traffic delays in the Rocky Mountain region than some of our competitors that may be better able to spread these traffic risks over larger route networks. We face intense competition by United Airlines and other airlines at DIA, and Southwest Airlines’ service to and from Denver has increased competition on certain of our routes. The airline industry is highly competitive. We compete with United in our hub in Denver, and we anticipate that we will compete with United in any additional markets we elect to serve in the future. United and United’s regional airline affiliates are the dominant carriers out of DIA, accounting for approximately 49.8% of all revenue passengers out of DIA for March 2008. In addition, Southwest Airlines started service to and from Denver in January 2006 and currently has 82 daily departures. Southwest’s introductory fares were significantly below the fares we were able to obtain prior to its arrival. Fare pressure exerted by Southwest on its announced routes and on any future expansion in Denver by Southwest will require us to be fare competitive, and may place additional downward pressure on our yields. In addition, in the last four years Alaska Airlines, JetBlue Airways and AirTran Airways have commenced service at DIA. These airlines have offered low introductory fares and compete on several of our routes. Fare wars, predatory pricing, ‘‘capacity dumping,’’ in which a competitor places additional aircraft on selected routes, and other competitive activities could adversely affect us. The future activities of United, Southwest and other carriers may have a material adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. We experience high costs at DIA, which may impact our results of operations. We operate our hub of flight operations from DIA where we experience high costs. Financed through revenue bonds, DIA depends on landing fees, gate rentals, income from airlines and the traveling public, and other fees to generate income to service its debt and to support its operations. Our cost of operations at DIA will vary as traffic increases or diminishes at the airport or as significant improvement projects are undertaken by the airport. We believe that our operating costs at DIA substantially exceed those that other airlines incur at most hub airports in other cities, which decreases our ability to compete with other airlines with lower costs at their hub airports. Our all-Airbus mainline fleet creates certain concentration risks. As of March 31, 2008, we operated 62 Airbus aircraft. We completed our transition from Boeing aircraft to operating only Airbus aircraft on our mainline routes in April 2005. One of the key elements of this strategy is to produce cost savings because crew training is standardized for aircraft of a common type, maintenance issues are simplified, spare parts inventory is reduced, and scheduling is more efficient. Since we operate only Airbus aircraft and GE engines on our mainline routes, we are dependent on single manufacturers for future aircraft acquisitions or deliveries, spare parts or warranty service. If Airbus is unable to perform its obligations under existing purchase agreements, or is unable to provide future aircraft or services, whether by fire, strike or other events that affect its ability to fulfill contractual obligations or manufacture aircraft or spare parts, we would have to find another supplier for our aircraft. If acceptable Airbus aircraft were otherwise not available in the marketplace, Boeing aircraft is likely to be the only other manufacturer from which we could purchase or lease alternate aircraft. If we were forced to acquire Boeing aircraft, we would need to address fleet transition issues, including substantial costs associated with retraining our employees, acquiring new spare parts, and replacing our manuals. In addition, the fleet efficiency benefits described above may no longer be available. Our business would be significantly disrupted if an FAA airworthiness directive or service bulletin were issued that resulted in the grounding of Airbus aircraft or GE engines of the type we operate while the defect was being corrected. Our business could also be harmed if the public avoids flying Airbus aircraft due to an adverse perception about the aircraft’s safety or dependability due to an accident or other incident involving an Airbus aircraft of the type we fly. 14 Our maintenance expenses may be higher than we anticipate and will increase as our fleet ages. We bear the cost of all routine and major maintenance on our owned and leased aircraft. Maintenance expenses comprise a significant portion of our operating expenses. In addition, we are required periodically to take aircraft out of service for heavy maintenance checks, which can increase costs and reduce revenue. We also may be required to comply with regulations and airworthiness directives the FAA issues, the cost of which our aircraft lessors may only partially assume depending upon the magnitude of the expense. Although we believe that our owned and leased aircraft are currently in compliance with all FAA issued airworthiness directives, additional airworthiness directives likely will be required in the future, necessitating additional expense. Because the average age of our Airbus aircraft is approximately 3.9 years, our aircraft require less maintenance now than they will in the future. We have incurred lower maintenance expenses because most of the parts on our aircraft are under multi-year warranties. Our maintenance costs will increase significantly, both on an absolute basis and as a percentage of our operating expenses, as our fleet ages and these warranties expire. Our landing fees may increase because of local noise abatement procedures. As a result of litigation and pressure from residents in the areas surrounding airports, airport operators have taken actions over the years to reduce aircraft noise. These actions have included regulations requiring aircraft to meet prescribed decibel limits by designated dates, curfews during nighttime hours, restrictions on frequency of aircraft operations, and various operational procedures for noise abatement. The Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 recognized the right of airport operators with special noise problems to implement local noise abatement procedures as long as the procedures do not interfere unreasonably with the interstate and foreign commerce of the national air transportation system. Compliance with local noise abatement procedures may lead to increased landing fees. An agreement between the City and County of Denver and another county adjacent to Denver specifies maximum aircraft noise levels at designated monitoring points in the vicinity of DIA with significant amounts payable by the city to the other county for each substantiated noise violation under the agreement. DIA has incurred these payment obligations and likely will incur such obligations in the future, which it will pass on to us and other air carriers serving DIA by increasing landing fees. Additionally, noise regulations could be enacted in the future that would increase our expenses and could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Unionization affects our costs and may affect our operations. Five of our employee groups are represented by unions: our pilots, dispatchers, mechanics, material specialists and aircraft appearance agents. In addition, since 1997 union organizing attempts were defeated by our flight attendants and ramp service agents. The collective bargaining agreement with our mechanics union, IBT, expires in January 2009. In February 2007, FAPA pilot membership ratified a four year agreement that amends the previous five-year contract signed in May 2005. In March 2006, our material specialists voted for union representation by the IBT. In September 2007, the material specialists approved a four year agreement. In September 2006, the contract with our dispatchers, who are represented by the TWU, expired. In September 2007, our dispatchers signed a five year collective bargaining agreement. The Aircraft Appearance Agents and Maintenance Cleaners contract became effective September 2005 and is in effect until September 2015. If we are unable to reach agreements with any of the represented work groups when their contracts open for renegotiation, or if currently non-represented employees were to unionize and we were unable to reach agreement on the terms of their employment, we may need to go to mediation and may experience widespread employee dissatisfaction. We could be subject to work slowdowns or stoppages. In addition, we may be subject to disruptions by organized labor protesting certain groups for their non-union status or 15 conducting sympathy action for fellow members striking at other airlines. Any of these events would be disruptive to our operations and could harm our business. The lack of marketing alliances could harm our business. Many airlines have marketing alliances with other airlines, under which they market and advertise their status as marketing alliance partners. Among other things, they share the use of two-letter flight designator codes to identify their flights and fares in the computerized reservation systems and permit reciprocity in their frequent flyer programs. We do not have an extensive network of marketing partners. The lack of marketing alliances puts us at a competitive disadvantage to global network carriers, whose ability to attract passengers through more widespread alliances, particularly on international routes, may adversely affect our passenger traffic and our results of operations. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel at reasonable costs, our business will be harmed. We are dependent on the experience and industry knowledge of our officers and other key employees to execute our business plans. Our deteriorating financial performance, along with our Chapter 11 proceedings, create uncertainty that has led to a significant increase in unwanted attrition. We are at risk of losing management talent critical to the successful reorganization and ongoing operation of our business. If we continue to experience a substantial turnover in our leadership and other key employees, including as a result of planned overhead reductions required by our business plan, our performance could be materially adversely impacted. Furthermore, we may be unable to attract and retain additional qualified executives as needed in the future. We rely heavily on automated systems and technology to operate our business and any failure of these systems could harm our business. We are increasingly dependent on automated systems and technology to operate our business, enhance customer service and achieve low operating costs, including our computerized airline reservation system, telecommunication systems, website, check-in kiosks and in-flight entertainment systems. Substantial or repeated system failures to any of the above systems could reduce the attractiveness of our services and could result in our customers purchasing tickets from another airline. Any disruptions in these systems could result in the loss of important data, increase our expenses and generally harm our business. In addition, a seemingly high percentage of customers have been booking flights on our airline through third-party websites, which has increased our distribution costs. If any of these third-party websites experiences system failures or discontinues listing our flights on its systems, our bookings and revenue may be adversely impacted. We implement improvements to our website and reservations system from time to time. Implementation of changes to these systems may cause operational and financial disruptions if we experience transition or system cutover issues, if the new systems do not perform as we expect them to, or if vendors do not deliver systems upgrades or other components on a timely basis. Any such disruptions may have the effect of discouraging some travelers from purchasing tickets from us and increasing our reservations staffing. Any “ownership change” could limit our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards. Under federal income tax law, a corporation is generally permitted to deduct from taxable income in any year net operating losses carried forward from prior years. As of March 31, 2008, we had approximately $421,100,000 of federal and state net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards. Our ability to deduct net operating loss carryforwards could be subject to a significant limitation if we were to undergo an “ownership change” for purposes of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, during or as a result of our Chapter 11 proceedings. 16 Our financial results and reputation could be harmed in the event of an accident or incident involving our aircraft. An accident or incident involving one of our aircraft could involve repair or replacement of a damaged aircraft and its consequential temporary or permanent loss from service, and significant potential claims of injured passengers and others. We are required by the DOT and our lenders and lessors to carry hull, liability and war risk insurance. Although we believe we currently maintain liability insurance in amounts and of the type generally consistent with industry practice, the amount of such coverage may not be adequate and we may be forced to bear substantial losses from an accident. Substantial claims resulting from an accident in excess of our related insurance coverage would harm our business and financial results. Moreover, any aircraft accident or incident, even if fully insured, could cause a public perception that we are less safe or reliable than other airlines, which would harm our business. Risks Associated with the Airline Industry The airline industry has incurred significant losses resulting in airline restructurings and bankruptcies, which could result in changes in our industry. Financial losses throughout the airline industry in recent years have resulted in airlines renegotiating or attempting to renegotiate labor contracts, reconfiguring flight schedules, furloughing or terminating employees, and taking other efficiency and cost-cutting measures. Despite these actions, several airlines have liquidated and ceased operations. Others are seeking reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, which permits them to reduce labor rates, restructure debt, terminate pension plans and generally reduce their cost structure. As the industry encounters continued financial losses and high fuel costs, airlines may institute pricing structures to achieve near-term survival rather than long-term viability. It is foreseeable that further airline reorganizations, bankruptcies, or consolidations may occur, the effects of which we are unable to predict. We cannot assure you that the occurrence of these events, or potential changes resulting from these events, will not harm our business or the industry. We may be subject to terrorist attacks or other acts of war and increased costs or reductions in demand for air travel due to hostilities in the Middle East or other parts of the world. Although the entire industry is substantially enhancing security equipment and procedures, it is impossible to guarantee that additional terrorist attacks, such as the terrorist attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001 and more recent threats in August 2006, or other acts of war will not occur. Given the weakened state of the airline industry, if additional terrorist attacks or acts of war occur, particularly in the near future, it can be expected that the impact of those attacks on the industry may be similar in nature to but substantially greater than those resulting from the September 11 terrorist attacks. The airline industry is seasonal and cyclical, resulting in unpredictable liquidity and earnings. Because the airline industry is seasonal and cyclical, our liquidity and earnings will fluctuate and be unpredictable. Our operations primarily depend on passenger travel demand and seasonal variations. Our weakest travel periods are generally during the quarters ending in March and December. The airline industry is also a highly cyclical business with substantial volatility. Airlines frequently experience short-term cash requirements. These requirements are caused by seasonal fluctuations in traffic, which often reduce cash during off-peak periods, and various other factors, including price competition from other airlines, national and international events, fuel prices, and general economic conditions including inflation. Our operating and financial results are likely to be negatively impacted by national or regional economic conditions in the U.S., and particularly in Colorado. Our current insurance costs could increase if the U.S. government does not provide war risk coverage to airlines. Following the September 11 terrorist attacks, aviation insurers dramatically increased airline insurance premiums and significantly reduced the maximum amount of insurance coverage available to airlines for liability to persons other than passengers for claims resulting from acts of terrorism, war or similar events to $50 million per event and in the aggregate. In light of this development, under the Air 17 Transportation Safety and System Stabilization Act, the U.S. government has provided domestic airlines with excess war risk coverage above $50 million up to an estimated $1.6 billion per event for us. In December 2002, through authority granted under the Homeland Security Act of 2002, the U.S. government expanded its insurance program to enable airlines to elect either the government’s excess third-party war risk coverage or for the government to become the primary insurer for all war risks coverage. We elected to take primary government coverage in February 2003 and dropped the commercially available war risk coverage. The current government war risk policy is in effect until August 31, 2008. We do not know whether the government will extend the coverage beyond August 31, 2008 and if it does how long the extension will last. We expect that if the government stops providing excess war risk coverage to the airline industry, the premiums charged by aviation insurers for this coverage will be substantially higher than the premiums currently charged by the government or the coverage will not be available from reputable underwriters. Significant increases in insurance premiums would harm our financial condition and results of operations. We are in a high fixed cost business, and any unexpected decrease in revenue would harm us. The airline industry is characterized by low profit margins and high fixed costs primarily for personnel, fuel, aircraft ownership and lease costs and other rents. The expenses of an aircraft flight do not vary significantly with the number of passengers carried and, as a result, a relatively small change in the number of passengers or in pricing would have a disproportionate effect on our operating and financial results. Accordingly, a shortfall from expected revenue yields can have a material adverse effect on our profitability and liquidity. We are often affected by factors beyond our control, including weather conditions, traffic congestion at airports and increased security measures, and irrational pricing from competitors, any of which could harm our operating results and financial condition. Delays or cancellations due to adverse weather conditions or other factors beyond our control could adversely affect us. Like other airlines, we are subject to delays caused by factors beyond our control, including adverse weather conditions, air traffic congestion at airports and increased security measures. Delays frustrate passengers, reduce aircraft utilization and increase costs, all of which negatively affect profitability. During periods of snow, rain, fog, hurricanes or other storms, or other adverse weather conditions, flights may be cancelled or significantly delayed. Cancellations or delays due to weather conditions, traffic control problems and breaches in security could harm our operating results and financial condition. We are subject to strict federal regulations, and compliance with federal regulations increases our costs and decreases our revenue. Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal requirements that involve significant compliance costs. Any future changes in regulatory oversight of airlines generally, or low-fare carriers in particular, could result in a material increase in our operating expenses or otherwise hinder our business. For example, the FAA issues directives and other regulations on the maintenance and operation of aircraft that necessitate significant expenditures. We expect to continue incurring expenses to comply with the FAA’s regulations. Other laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges have also been imposed significantly increasing the cost of airline operations or reduce revenue. For example, the Aviation and Transportation Security Act mandates the federalization of certain airport security procedures and imposes additional security requirements on airports and airlines, most of which are funded by a per ticket tax on passengers and a tax on airlines. The TSA has also attempted to impose an additional annual Security Infrastructure Fee on certain airlines, including us. A revision in the fee structure assessed by the TSA could result in increased cost for us. The airline industry has opposed and disagrees with the higher assessment and is working with the TSA on a resolution. 18 Although we have the necessary authority from the DOT and the FAA to conduct flight operations, we must maintain this authority by our continued compliance with applicable statutes, rules and regulations pertaining to the airline industry, including any new rules and regulations that may be adopted in the future. We believe that the FAA strictly scrutinizes smaller airlines like ours, which makes us susceptible to regulatory demands that can negatively impact our operations. We may not be able to continue to comply with all present and future rules and regulations. In addition, we cannot predict the costs of compliance with these regulations and the effect of compliance on our profitability, although these costs may be material. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 19 