Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information set forth in this annual report on Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the risk factors discussed below and in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. These are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. Our actual operating results may differ significantly from our guidance. From time to time, we may release guidance in our quarterly earnings releases, quarterly earnings conference call, or otherwise, regarding our future performance that represents our management's estimates as of the date of release. This guidance, which includes forward-looking statements, is based on projections prepared by our management. These projections are not prepared with a view toward compliance with published guidelines of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and neither our registered public accountants nor any other independent expert or outside party compiles or examines the projections and, accordingly, no such person expresses any opinion or any other form of assurance with respect thereto. Projections are based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control and are based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which will change. We generally state possible outcomes as high and low ranges, which are intended to provide a sensitivity analysis as variables are changed but are not intended to represent that actual results could not fall outside of the suggested ranges. The principal reason that we release guidance is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by any such persons. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions of the guidance furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, our guidance is only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results will vary from our guidance and the variations may be material. In light of the foregoing, investors are urged not to rely upon, or otherwise consider, our guidance in making an investment decision in respect of our common stock. Any failure to successfully implement our operating strategy or the occurrence of any of the events or circumstances set forth in our "Risk Factors" and in this annual report on Form 10-K could result in the actual operating results being different from our guidance, and such differences may be adverse and material. We may not be able to utilize all of our deferred tax assets. We currently believe that we are likely to have sufficient taxable income in the future to realize the benefit of all of our deferred tax assets, consisting primarily of reserves and accruals that are not currently deductible for tax purposes. However, some or all of these deferred tax assets could expire unused if we are unable to generate sufficient taxable income in the future to utilize them. If it becomes more likely than not that our deferred tax assets will expire unused, we would record a valuation allowance, which may materially increase our income tax expense, and therefore adversely affect our results of operations and tangible net worth in the period in which it is recorded. 17 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business Our introduction of Rosetta Stone Version 4 TOTALe and ReFLEX has increased our costs as a percentage of revenue, may not succeed and may harm our business, financial results and reputation. We released Rosetta Stone Version 4 TOTALe in the United States in the third quarter of 2010 and in Japan, the United Kingdom and South Korea in 2011. We introduced ReFLEX in South Korea in July 2011. Rosetta Stone Version 4 TOTALe integrates our existing language-learning software solutions with web-based services, which provide opportunities for practice with dedicated language conversation coaches and other language learners to increase language socialization. ReFLEX integrates online language-learning software solutions to improve the listening and speaking skills of English learners with web-based services, which provide opportunities for practice with dedicated language conversation coaches and other language learners. These web-based services have a much higher cost as a percentage of revenue than our software solutions. We offer Rosetta Stone Version 4 TOTALe primarily by bundling the web-based services of TOTALe with our software and audio offerings. At the same time, we expect to provide augmented, free peer-to-peer language practice. The services associated with Rosetta Stone Version 4 TOTALe and ReFLEX have decreased our margins. Rosetta Stone Version 4 TOTALe sells at a higher price per unit than our Version 3 software solutions and customers may not choose to engage with conversation coaches or pay higher prices to do so. Rosetta Stone Version 4 TOTALe and ReFLEX have also presented new management and marketing challenges that differ from the challenges we face in our existing business. In addition, we are now required to defer recognition of a portion of each sale of Version 4 TOTALe and ReFLEX in connection with the subscription terms of our online socialization services. Consumer demand for Rosetta Stone Version 4 TOTALe has not been as high as we projected and overall, our unit sales contracted in 2011 compared to 2010. We cannot assure you that Rosetta Stone Version 4 TOTALe and ReFLEX will be successful or profitable, or if it is profitable, that it will provide an adequate return on capital expended. If Rosetta Stone Version 4 TOTALe and/or ReFLEX are not successful, our business, financial results and reputation may be harmed. Our introduction of an English remediation solution targeting intermediate learners in Asia may not succeed and may harm our business, financial results and reputation. In July 2011, we introduced our English remediation solution, ReFLEX, in South Korea. We intend to introduce ReFLEX in Japan during 2012. This solution targets advanced English learners in Asia, and will provide learners with foundational phonetic skills needed to properly hear and produce distinctions that are present in English, but absent in Asian languages. This online solution will carry lower price points than our full Rosetta Stone Version 4 TOTALe language-learning solution and may cannibalize sales of our Version 4 solution in Asia. We have devoted significant capital, personnel and management attention to develop and launch the English remediation offering, including related research and development expenses, and incurring marketing expenses relating to the launch. This new product presents new management and marketing challenges that differ from the challenges we face in our existing business. Consumer demand for ReFLEX in South Korea has not been as high as we projected. We cannot assure you that the English remediation solution will be successful or profitable, or if it is profitable, that it will provide an adequate return on capital expended. If we are not successful in our launch of the English remediation solution, our business, financial results and reputation may be harmed. Because we generate all of our revenue from language-learning solutions, a decline in demand for our language-learning solutions or for language-learning solutions in general could cause our revenue to decline. We generate substantially all of our revenue from our language-learning solutions, and we expect that we will continue to depend upon language-learning solutions for substantially all of our revenue in the foreseeable future. Because we are dependent on our language-learning solutions, factors such as 18 Table of Contents changes in consumer preferences for these products may have a disproportionately greater impact on us than if we offered multiple product categories. If consumer interest in our language-learning software products declines, or if consumer interest in learning foreign languages in general declines, we would likely experience a significant loss of sales. Our December 2010 study found that the consumer spending on language learning in the U.S. contracted from approximately $5.2 billion in 2007 to approximately $4 billion in 2010. Our study also indicates that U.S. consumer spending on language learning has declined by 24% since 2007, even as the total number of buyers has expanded by 28%. Some of the potential developments that could negatively affect interest in and demand for language-learning software products include: •a decline in international travel; •changes in U.S. laws or policies making it more difficult for foreign persons to visit or take up residence in the United States; and •a reduction in the roles of the U.S. armed forces or other governmental agencies in foreign countries. Because a substantial portion of our revenue is generated from our consumer business, if we fail to accurately forecast consumer demand and trends in consumer preferences, our Rosetta Stone brand, sales and customer relationships may be harmed. Demand for our language-learning software products and related services, and for consumer products and services in general, is subject to rapidly changing consumer demand and trends in consumer preferences. Therefore, our success depends upon our ability to: •identify, anticipate, understand and respond to these trends in a timely manner; •introduce appealing new products and performance features on a timely basis; •provide appealing solutions that engage our customers; •anticipate and meet consumer demand for additional languages, learning levels and new platforms for delivery; •effectively position and market our products and services; •identify and secure cost-effective means of marketing our products to reach the appropriate consumers; •identify cost-effective sales distribution channels, kiosk locations and other sales outlets where interested consumers will buy our products; •anticipate and respond to consumer price sensitivity and pricing changes of competitive products; and •identify and successfully implement ways of building brand loyalty and reputation. Although unit sales of our products increased compared to 2010, revenues from Version 4 TOTALe have been less than expected. In addition, the sales of ReFLEX in South Korea have been less than we anticipated. We have also been experiencing changes in consumer demand with respect to our kiosk sales channel. We closed 23 kiosk locations in the fourth quarter of 2011 and plan to significantly reduce the size of our worldwide kiosk program based on our evaluation of historical and forecasted kiosk sales performance. We may be unable to develop new solutions or solution enhancements in time to capture market opportunities or achieve sustainable acceptance in new or existing markets. In addition, our solutions may become less appealing to consumers due to changes in technologies or reduced life cycles of our 19 Table of Contents solutions. A decline in consumer demand for our solutions, or any failure on our part to satisfy such changing consumer preferences, could harm our business and profitability. We depend on discretionary consumer spending in the consumer segment of our business. Adverse trends in general economic conditions, including retail shopping patterns, airport traffic or consumer confidence, as well as numerous other external consumer dynamics may compromise our ability to generate revenue. The success of our business depends to a significant extent upon discretionary consumer spending, which is subject to a number of factors, including general economic conditions, consumer confidence, employment levels, business conditions, interest rates, availability of credit, inflation and taxation. Adverse trends in any of these economic indicators may cause consumer spending to decline further, which could hurt our sales and profitability. We depend on the continued popularity of malls as shopping destinations and the ability of mall anchor tenants and other attractions to generate customer traffic for our retail mall-based kiosks. We also depend on continued airline travel to generate traffic for our retail kiosks located in airports. In addition, we depend on the continued popularity of traditional store-based retailers such as Barnes & Noble, Best Buy, Costco, Books-A-Million and Staples to sell our products. Decreases in mall, airport or traditional store-based retail traffic adversely affect our consumer sales and our profitability and financial condition. In addition, an increase in the taxation of online sales could result in reduced online purchases or reduced margins on such sales. Furthermore, consumers may defer purchases of our solutions in anticipation of new products or new versions from us or our competitors. Because a significant portion of our sales are made to or through retailers and distributors, none of which have any obligation to sell our products, the failure or inability of these parties to sell our products effectively could hurt our revenue and profitability. We rely on retailers and distributors, together with our direct sales force, to sell our products. Our sales to retailers and distributors are highly concentrated on a small group, including Amazon.com, Barnes & Noble, Best Buy, Books-A-Million, Staples, Costco, Navarre and our home shopping network partner in Korea, GS Home Shopping, Inc. Sales to or through our retailer and distributors accounted for approximately 14% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011, which was down approximately 4% from our revenue generated from these channels for the year ended December 31, 2010. On February 16, 2011, Borders filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization and we recorded a charge of $0.9 million during the three months ended December 31, 2010 associated with the potential loss of our accounts receivable from Borders. In July 2011, Borders announced plans to close down all of the Company's retail stores and liquidate inventory. The liquidation of inventory by Borders reduced foot traffic and sales of our products by our other retailers. We have no control over the amount of products that these retailers and distributors purchase from us or sell on our behalf, we do not have long-term contracts with any of them, and they have no obligation to offer or sell our products or to give us any particular shelf space or product placement within their stores. Thus, there is no guarantee that this source of revenue will continue at the same level as it has in the past or that these retailers and distributors will not promote competitors' products over our products or enter into exclusive relationships with competitors. Any material adverse change in the principal commercial terms, material decrease in the volume of sales generated by our larger retailers or distributors or major disruption or termination of a relationship with these retailers and distributors could result in a potentially significant decline in our revenue and profitability. Furthermore, product display locations and promotional activities that retailers undertake can affect the sales of our products. The fact that we also sell our products directly could cause retailers or distributors to reduce their efforts to promote our products or stop selling our products altogether. As evidenced by the Borders Chapter 11 liquidation, book stores and other traditional store-based retailers are experiencing diminished foot traffic and sales. Reduced customer foot traffic in these stores is likely 20 Table of Contents to reduce their sales of our products. In addition, if one or more these bookstores or other retailers or distributors are unable to meet their obligations with respect to accounts payable to us, we could be forced to write off such accounts. Any bankruptcy, liquidation, insolvency or other failure of any of these retailers or distributors could result in significant financial loss and cause us to lose revenue in future periods. Product returns and pricing concessions could exceed our estimates, which would diminish our reported revenue. We offer consumers who purchase our packaged software and audio practice products directly from us six-month unconditional full money-back. We also permit some of our retailers and distributors to return packaged products, subject to certain limitations. We establish revenue reserves for packaged product returns based on historical experience, estimated channel inventory levels, the timing of new product introductions and other factors. If packaged product returns exceed our reserve estimates, the excess would offset reported revenue, which could hurt our reported financial results. We are in the process of testing changes to the pricing and delivery methods of our products. If we reduce our prices or our method of delivery as a result of successful tests in an effort to increase sales volume and overall market penetration, we may provide our retailers and distributors with price protection on existing inventories, which would allow these retailers and distributors a credit against amounts owed with respect to unsold packaged product under certain conditions. These price protection reserves could be material in future periods. Intense competition in our industry may hinder our ability to generate revenue and may diminish our margins. The market for foreign language-learning solutions is rapidly evolving, highly fragmented and intensely competitive, and we expect both product and pricing competition to persist and intensify. Increased competition could cause reduced revenue, price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories and substantially greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we do, as well as greater name recognition worldwide. The resources of these competitors also may enable them to respond more rapidly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, reduce prices to win new customers and offer free language-learning software or online services. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. As the market for foreign language solutions continues to develop, a number of other companies with greater resources than ours could attempt to enter the market or increase their presence by acquiring or forming strategic alliances with our competitors or our distributors or by introducing their own competing products. These companies and their products may be superior to any of our current competition. We have seen increased competition from imitation products which are lower priced lower quality products that attempt to capitalize on the popularity of our products by utilizing similar packaging and marketing materials. In addition, we see increased competition from community practice providers which provide low priced entry points for consumers interested in learning languages. We may not have the financial resources, technical expertise, marketing, distribution or support capabilities to compete effectively with any of these new entrants to the market. We have seen an increase of language-learning applications on mobile platforms, such as iPhones and iPads, that are offered at extremely low prices and, while they are currently limited in scope and ability to teach languages, they may present a threat as they develop. 21 Table of Contents As we continue to expand into foreign markets, we expect that we will experience competition from local foreign language-learning companies that have strong brand recognition and more experience in selling to local consumers and a better understanding of local marketing, sales channels and consumer preferences. Our success will depend on our ability to adapt to these competitive forces, to adapt to technological advances, to develop more advanced products more rapidly and less expensively than our competitors, to continue to develop an international sales network, to adapt to changing consumer preferences and to educate potential customers about the benefits of using our solutions rather than our competitors' products and services. Existing or new competitors could introduce new products and services with superior features and functionality at lower prices. This could impair our ability to sell our products and services. Demand for paid language-learning solutions such as ours could decline if effective language-learning solutions become available for free. Presently there are a number of free online language websites offering limited vocabulary lists and grammar explanations and tips. In addition, there are some online services offering limited free lessons and learning tools, including one sponsored by the U.S. Department of Education to help immigrants learn English. Many of these websites offer free language practice opportunities with other language learners. If these free products become more sophisticated and competitive or gain widespread acceptance by the public, demand for our solutions could decline. Our future growth and profitability will depend in large part upon the effectiveness and efficiency of our marketing expenditures. Our future growth and profitability will depend in large part upon the effectiveness and efficiency of our marketing expenditures, including our ability to: •create greater awareness of our brands and our language-learning solutions; •select the right market, media and specific media vehicle in which to advertise; •identify the most effective and efficient level of spending in each market, media and specific media vehicle; •determine the appropriate creative message and media mix for advertising, marketing and promotional expenditures; •effectively manage marketing costs, including creative and media expenses, in order to maintain acceptable customer acquisition costs; •drive traffic to our websites, call centers, kiosks and distribution channels; and •convert customer inquiries into actual orders. Our planned marketing expenditures may not result in increased revenue or generate sufficient levels of product and brand name awareness, and we may not be able to increase our net sales at the same rate as we increase our advertising expenditures. Much of our radio, television and print advertising has been through the purchase of "remnant" advertising segments. These segments are random time slots and publication dates that have remained unsold and are offered at discounts to advertisers who are willing to be flexible with respect to time slots. There is a limited supply of this type of advertising and the availability of such advertising may decline or the cost of such advertising may increase. In addition, if we increase our marketing budget we cannot assure you that we can increase the amount of remnant advertising at the discounted prices 22 Table of Contents we have obtained in the past. If any of these events occur, we may be forced to purchase time slots and publication dates at higher prices, which will increase our costs. Our business depends on our Rosetta Stone brand, and if we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, our business and operating results may be harmed. We believe that market awareness of our Rosetta Stone brand in the United States has contributed significantly to the success of our business. We also believe that maintaining and enhancing the Rosetta Stone brand is critical to maintaining our competitive advantage. As we continue to grow in size, expand our products and services and extend our geographic reach, maintaining the quality and consistency of our language-learning solutions, and thus the quality of our brand, may be more difficult. In addition, software piracy and trademark infringement may harm our Rosetta Stone brand by undermining our reputation for quality software programs. We must continue to update our marketing communications in order to maintain and enhance our brand awareness and the value of our brand. Failure to do so may result in a decrease in brand value and related sales. We depend on search engines and other online sources to attract visitors to our websites, and if we are unable to attract these visitors and convert them into customers in a cost-effective manner, our business and financial results may be harmed. Our success depends on our ability to attract online consumers to our websites and convert them into customers in a cost-effective manner. We depend, in part, on search engines and other online sources for our website traffic. We are included in search results as a result of both paid search listings, where we purchase specific search terms that will result in the inclusion of our listing, and algorithmic searches that depend upon the searchable content on our sites. Search engines and other online sources revise their algorithms from time to time in an attempt to optimize their search results. If one or more of the search engines or other online sources on which we rely for website traffic were to modify its general methodology for how it displays our websites, resulting in fewer consumers clicking through to our websites, our sales could suffer. If any free search engine on which we rely begins charging fees for listing or placement, or if one or more of the search engines or other online sources on which we rely for purchased listings, modifies or terminates its relationship with us, our expenses could rise, we could lose customers and traffic to our websites could decrease. Our expansion into international markets may not succeed and imposes special risks. Our business strategy contemplates continued expansion into international markets. We are currently expanding our direct sales channels in Europe, Asia and Latin America. In addition, we are expanding our indirect sales channels in Europe, Asia and Latin America through retailer and distributor arrangements with third parties. If we are unable to expand our international operations successfully and in a timely manner, our ability to pursue our growth strategy will be impaired. Such expansion may be more difficult or take longer than we anticipate, and we may not be able to successfully market, sell, deliver and support our products and services internationally to the extent we expect. Our international operations and our efforts to increase sales in international markets are subject to a number of risks that are in addition to or different than those affecting our U.S. operations, including: •difficulty in staffing and managing geographically dispersed operations and culturally diverse work forces and increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; 23 Table of Contents •difficulty in establishing and maintaining financial and other internal controls over geographically dispersed operations; •competition from local foreign language software providers and preferences for local products in some regions; •expenses associated with customizing products, support services and websites for foreign countries; •inability to identify an effective and efficient level of advertising, marketing and promotional expenditures in order to maintain acceptable customer acquisition costs; •inability to drive traffic to our websites, call centers, kiosks and distribution channels; •inability to register domain names for "rosetta stone" in Country Code Top Level Domains in order to operate country specific websites to permit consumers to easily locate our products in other countries due in large part to cybersquatting; •difficulties with providing appropriate and appealing products to suit consumer preferences and capabilities in these markets, such as the potential need to customize English language software solutions for local markets; •difficulties with establishing successful kiosk sales channels; •inability to successfully develop relationships with significant retailers and distributors; •potential political and economic instability in some regions; •potential unpredictable changes in foreign government regulations; •legal and cultural differences in the conduct of business; •import and export license requirements, tariffs, taxes and other trade barriers; •inflation and fluctuations in currency exchange rates; •potentially adverse tax consequences; •difficulties in enforcing contracts and collecting accounts receivable, and longer payment cycles, especially in emerging markets; •the burden and difficulties of complying with a wide variety of U.S. and foreign laws, regulations, trade standards, treaties and technical standards, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; •difficulty in protecting our intellectual property and the high incidence of software piracy in some regions; •costs and delays in downsizing foreign work forces as a result of differing employment and other laws; •protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competitors; and •uncertainty regarding liability for information retrieved and replicated in foreign countries. The effects of any of the risks described above could reduce our future revenue from our international operations and could harm our overall business, revenue and financial results. 24 Table of Contents If the recognition by schools and other institutions of the value of technology-based education does not continue to grow, our ability to generate revenue from institutions could be impaired. Our success depends in part upon the continued adoption by institutions and potential customers of technology-based education initiatives. Some academics and educators oppose online education in principle and have expressed concerns regarding the perceived loss of control over the education process that can result from offering courses online. If the acceptance of technology-based education does not grow our ability to continue to grow our institutional business could be impaired. If there are changes in the spending policies or budget priorities for government funding of colleges, universities, schools, other education providers, armed forces or government agencies, we could lose revenue. Many of our institutional customers are colleges, universities, primary and secondary schools, other education providers, armed forces and government agencies that depend substantially on government funding. Accordingly, any general decrease, delay or change in federal, state or local funding for colleges, universities, primary and secondary schools, or other education providers or for armed forces or government agencies that use our products and services could cause our current and potential customers to reduce their purchases of our products and services, to exercise their right to terminate licenses, or to decide not to renew licenses, any of which could cause us to lose revenue. In addition, a specific reduction in governmental funding support for products such as ours would also cause us to lose revenue and could hurt our overall gross margins. Some of our institutional business faces a lengthy and unpredictable sales cycle for our solutions, which could delay new sales. We face a lengthy sales cycle between our initial contact with some potential institutional customers and the signing of license agreements with these customers. As a result of this lengthy sales cycle, we have only a limited ability to forecast the timing of such institutional sales. A delay in or failure to complete license transactions could cause us to lose revenue, and could cause our financial results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our sales cycle varies widely, reflecting differences in our potential institutional customers' decision-making processes, procurement requirements and budget cycles, and is subject to significant risks over which we have little or no control, including: •customers' budgetary constraints and priorities; •the timing of our customers' budget cycles; •the need by some customers for lengthy evaluations that often include both their administrators and faculties; and •the length and timing of customers' approval processes. If we are unable to continually enhance our products and services and adapt them to technological changes and customer needs, including the emergence of new computing devices and more sophisticated online services, we may lose market share and revenue and our business could suffer. We need to anticipate, develop and introduce new products, services and applications on a timely and cost-effective basis that keeps pace with technological developments and changing customer needs. The process of developing new high technology products, services and applications and enhancing existing products, services and applications is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share and results of operations. For example, the number of individuals who access the internet through devices other than a personal computer, such as tablet computers, personal digital assistants, mobile telephones, televisions and set-top box devices, has increased dramatically and this trend is likely to continue. Our products and services may not work or be viewable on these devices 25 Table of Contents because each manufacturer or distributor may establish unique technical standards for such devices. With the exception of TOTALe Companion, we have no experience to date in operating versions of our products and services developed or optimized for users of alternative devices, and new devices and new platforms are continually being released. Accordingly, we may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support and maintenance of such versions. If we fail to develop or sell products and services that respond to these or other technological developments and changing customer needs cost effectively, we may lose market share and revenue and our business could suffer. We offer our software products and services primarily on Windows and Macintosh platforms. To the extent that there is a slowdown of customer purchases of personal computers on either the Windows or Macintosh platform or in general, to the extent that we have difficulty transitioning product or version releases to new Windows and Macintosh operating systems, or to the extent that significant demand arises for our products or competitive products on other platforms before we choose and are able to offer our products on these platforms, our business could be harmed. To the extent new releases of operating systems, including for mobile and non-PC devices, or other third-party products, platforms or devices make it more difficult for our products to perform, and our customers are persuaded to use alternative technologies, our business could be harmed. If we fail to manage our expansion effectively, we may experience difficulty in filling purchase orders, declines in product and service quality and customer satisfaction, increased costs or disruption in our operations. We are currently involved in efforts to expand our operations internationally, grow our institutional business, and move our business more online, which has strained our managerial, operational, financial and other resources. We anticipate that continued expansion of our operations will be required to satisfy consumer and institutional demand and to avail ourselves of new market opportunities. The expanding scope of our business will continue to place a significant strain on our management team, information technology systems and other resources. To properly manage our growth, we need to hire and retain personnel, upgrade our existing operational, management and financial and reporting systems, including warehouse management and inventory control, improve our business processes and controls and identify and develop relationships with additional retailers and distributors. We may also be required to expand our distribution facilities and our operational facilities or add new facilities, which could require significant capital expenditures. Failure to effectively manage our expansion and move our business more online in a cost-effective manner could result in difficulty in filling purchase orders, declines in product and service quality and customer satisfaction, increased costs or disruption of our operations. Our growth also makes it difficult for us to adequately predict the expenditures we will need to make in the future. If we do not make the necessary overhead expenditures to accommodate our future growth, we may not be successful in executing our growth strategy. If we move our consumer business substantially online and sell our solutions pursuant to a monthly subscription fee rather than an upfront fee, our revenue, results of operations and cash flow will be negatively impacted in the short term. Historically, we have predominantly sold our packaged software programs for a single upfront fee and recorded 75-90% of the revenue at the time of sale. We are exploring delivering more of our solutions online pursuant to monthly subscription fees. Selling in this manner will result in substantially less cash and revenue from the initial sale to the customer and could have a substantially negative impact on our revenue, results of operations and cash flow in the short term. 26 Table of Contents Our revenue is subject to seasonal and quarterly variations, which could cause our financial results to fluctuate significantly. We have experienced, and we believe we will continue to experience, substantial seasonal and quarterly variations in our revenue and net income. These variations are primarily related to increased sales of our products and services to consumers in the fourth quarter during the holiday selling season as well as higher sales to governmental and educational institutions in the second and third quarters. We sell to a significant number of our retailers, distributors and institutional customers on a purchase order basis and we receive orders when these customers need products and services. As a result, their orders are typically not evenly distributed throughout the year. Our quarterly results of operations also may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of other factors, including the timing of holidays and advertising initiatives, changes in our products, services and advertising initiatives and changes in those of our competitors. Budgetary constraints of our institutional customers may also cause our quarterly results to fluctuate. As a result of these seasonal and quarterly fluctuations, we believe that comparisons of our results of operations between different quarters are not necessarily meaningful and that these comparisons are not reliable as indicators of our future performance. In addition, these fluctuations could result in volatility and adversely affect our cash flows. As our business grows, these seasonal fluctuations may become more pronounced. Any seasonal or quarterly fluctuations that we report in the future may differ from the expectations of market analysts and investors. This could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. Substantially all of our inventory is located in one warehouse facility. Any damage or disruption at this facility could cause significant financial loss, including loss of revenue and harm to our reputation. Substantially all of our inventory is located in one warehouse facility. We could experience significant interruption in the operation of this facility or damage or destruction of our inventory due to natural disasters, accidents, failures of the inventory locator or automated packing and shipping systems or other events. If a material portion of our inventory were to be damaged or destroyed, we might be unable to meet our contractual obligations which could cause us significant financial loss, including loss of revenue and harm to our reputation. The loss of key personnel or the failure to attract and retain highly qualified personnel could compromise our ability to effectively manage our business and pursue our growth strategy. Our future performance depends on the continued service of our key technical, development, sales, services and management personnel. We rely on our executive officers and senior management to execute our existing business plans and to identify and pursue new opportunities. We rely on our technical and development personnel for product innovation. We generally do not have employment agreements with our non-executive personnel and, therefore, they could terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of key employees could result in significant disruptions to our business, and the integration of replacement personnel could be costly and time consuming, could cause additional disruptions to our business, and could be unsuccessful. We do not carry key person life insurance covering any of our employees. Our future success also depends on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, development, sales, services and management personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we may fail to retain our key employees or attract or retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. Many of our employees are located in Harrisonburg, Virginia, a city that does not have a large pool of qualified replacement personnel. The lack of qualified local replacement personnel may make it more difficult to quickly find replacement personnel and may increase the costs of identifying and relocating replacement personnel to Harrisonburg, Virginia or increase costs due to 27 Table of Contents hiring replacements in other higher cost of living cities such as Arlington, Virginia or Boulder, Colorado. In addition, wage inflation and the cost of retaining our key personnel in the face of competition for such personnel may increase our costs faster than we can offset these costs with increased prices or increased sales volume. Our kiosk business generates significant revenues, and if we are unable to successfully reposition our kiosk business, or hire, train, motivate and retain sales personnel to staff our kiosks, or to identify suitable locations and negotiate site licenses on acceptable terms, we could lose revenue, our costs could increase and our profitability could decline. The number of worldwide kiosks decreased 33% from 259 as of December 31, 2010 to 174 as of December 31, 2011. In 2012, based on our evaluation of historical and forecasted kiosk sales performance, we plan to significantly reduce the size of our worldwide kiosk program, in addition to continually reviewing the performance of remaining kiosk locations. In order to successfully generate revenues from our kiosk program we must be able to hire, train, motivate and retain sales personnel to staff these kiosks. Our kiosks are small and widely dispersed, and, as such, are operated without substantial hands-on management or oversight by us. As a result, we depend on our kiosk sales personnel to effectively manage sales, customer issues and reporting of financial transactions from these kiosks. The success of our kiosks will depend upon various additional factors, including our ability to negotiate site licenses on acceptable terms and on negotiating acceptable labor costs. We must identify and negotiate cost-effective site licenses for kiosk locations that will generate sufficient consumer demand. Many of these site licenses contain terms and conditions that are highly favorable to licensors including allowing licensors to cancel them on short notice, sometimes as little as thirty days, and broad indemnification terms in favor of licensors. If competition for kiosk space increases, license fees may increase and other terms may become even less favorable to us, resulting in lower profitability. Our failure to properly manage the repositioning of this sales channel could cause us to lose revenue and increase our expenses. Failure to maintain the availability of the systems, networks, databases and software required to operate and deliver our internet-based products and services could damage our reputation and cause us to lose revenue. We rely on internal systems and external systems, networks and databases maintained by us and third-party providers to process customer orders, handle customer service requests, and host and deliver our internet-based language-learning solutions, including our online language courses and Rosetta Stone TOTALe, and our SharedTalk online peer-to-peer collaborative and interactive community. Any damage, interruption or failure of our systems, networks and databases could prevent us from processing customer orders and result in degradation or interruptions in delivery of our products and services. Notwithstanding our efforts to protect against interruptions in the availability of our e-commerce websites and internet-based products and services, we do occasionally experience unplanned outages or technical difficulties. In addition, we do not have complete redundancy for all of our systems. We do not maintain real-time back-up of all of our data, and in the event of system disruptions, we could experience loss of data which could cause us to lose customers and could harm our reputation and cause us to face unexpected liabilities and expenses. If we continue to expand our business, we will put additional strains on these systems. If we move additional product features to online systems or more of our business online, all of these considerations will become more significant. We may also need to grow, reconfigure or relocate our data centers in response to changing business needs, which may be costly and lead to unplanned disruptions of service. 28 Table of Contents We are subject to U.S. and foreign government regulation of online services which could subject us to claims, judgments, and remedies, including monetary liabilities and limitations on our business practices. We are subject to regulations and laws directly applicable to providers of online services. The application of existing domestic and international laws and regulations to us relating to issues such as user privacy and data protection, data security, defamation, promotions, billing, consumer protection, accessibility, content regulation, quality of services, and intellectual property ownership and infringement in many instances is unclear or unsettled. In addition, we will also be subject to any new laws and regulations directly applicable to our domestic and international activities. Internationally, we may also be subject to laws regulating our activities in foreign countries and to foreign laws and regulations that are inconsistent from country to country. We may incur substantial liabilities for expenses necessary to defend litigation in connection with such regulations and laws or to comply with these laws and regulations, as well as potential substantial penalties for any failure to comply. We may be subject to legal liability for new web-based online services. Rosetta Stone TOTALe enables individuals to exchange information and engage in various online activities on a domestic and an international basis. The law relating to the liability of providers of online services for activities of their users is currently unsettled both within the U.S. and internationally. Claims may be brought against us for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, unlawful activity, tort, including personal injury, fraud, or other theories based on the nature and content of information that may be posted online or generated by our users. Defense of any such actions could be costly and involve significant time and attention of our management and other resources and may require us to change our business in an adverse manner. In addition, the amount of data we store for our users on our servers (including personal information) will increase as we increase our web based services. Any systems failure or compromise of our security that results in the release of our users' data could seriously limit the adoption of our products and services as well as harm our reputation and brand and, therefore, our business. We may also need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches. The risk that these types of events could seriously harm our business is likely to increase as we expand the number of web based products and services we offer as well as increase the number of countries where we operate. Further, failure or perceived failure by us to comply with our policies, applicable requirements, or industry self-regulatory principles related to the collection, use, sharing or security of personal information, or other privacy, data-retention or data-protection matters could result in a loss of user confidence in us, damage to our brands, and ultimately in a loss of users, advertising partners, or affiliates, which could adversely affect our business. Our possession and use of personal information presents risks and expenses that could harm our business. Unauthorized disclosure or manipulation of such data, whether through breach of our network security or otherwise, could expose us to costly litigation and damage our reputation. Maintaining our network security is of critical importance because our online e-commerce systems and our online administration tools for our institutional business store proprietary and confidential customer, employee and other sensitive data, such as names, addresses, other personal information and credit card numbers. Our call centers also process confidential customer data, which is provided to employees in the call centers. We and our vendors use commercially available encryption technology to transmit personal information when taking orders. We use security and business controls to limit access and use of personal information. However, third parties may be able to circumvent these security and business measures by developing and deploying viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that are designed to attack or attempt to infiltrate our systems and networks. In addition, employee error, malfeasance or other errors in the storage, use or transmission of personal information could 29 Table of Contents result in a breach of customer or employee privacy. We employ contractors and temporary and part-time employees who may have access to the personal information of customers and employees. It is possible such individuals could circumvent our controls, which could result in a breach of customer or employee privacy. Possession and use of personal information in conducting our business subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that could require notification of data breaches, restrict our use of personal information and hinder our ability to acquire new customers or market to existing customers. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, expenses to comply with privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards or contractual obligations. If third parties improperly obtain and use the personal information of our customers or employees, we may be required to expend significant resources to resolve these problems. A major breach of our network security and systems could have serious negative consequences for our businesses, including possible fines, penalties and damages, reduced customer demand for our products and services, harm to our reputation and brand and loss of our ability to accept and process customer credit card orders. We are exposed to risks associated with credit card and payment fraud and with credit card processing, which could cause us to lose revenue. Many of our customers use credit cards or automated payment systems to pay for our products and services. We have suffered losses, and may continue to suffer losses, as a result of orders placed with fraudulent credit cards or other fraudulent payment data. For example, under current credit card practices, we may be liable for fraudulent credit card transactions if we do not obtain a cardholder's signature, a frequent practice in internet sales. We employ technology solutions to help us detect fraudulent transactions. However, the failure to detect or control payment fraud could cause us to lose sales and revenue. Any significant interruptions in the operations of our call center or third-party call centers could cause us to lose sales and disrupt our ability to process orders and deliver our solutions in a timely manner. We rely on both an in-house call center and third-party call centers to sell our solutions, respond to customer service and technical support requests and process orders. Any significant interruption in the operation of these facilities, including an interruption caused by our failure to successfully expand or upgrade our systems or to manage these expansions or upgrades, could reduce our ability to receive and process orders and provide products and services, which could result in lost and cancelled sales and damage to our brand and reputation. As we grow, we will need more capacity from those existing call centers or we will need to identify and contract with new call centers. We may not be able to continue to locate and contract for call center capacity on favorable terms, or at all. Additionally, the rates those call centers charge us may increase or those call centers may not continue to provide service at the current levels. We structure our marketing and advertising to drive potential customers to our call centers and websites to purchase our solutions. If our call center operators do not convert inquiries into sales at expected rates, our ability to generate revenue could be impaired. Training and retaining qualified call center operators is challenging due to the expansion of our product and service offerings and the seasonality of our business. If we do not adequately train our call center operators, they will not convert inquiries into sales at an acceptable rate. Our call center employs a large number of personnel and historically has been subject to a high turnover rate among employees. We may have to terminate employees from time to time as our business changes and labor demands shift among our facilities. Any significant increase in labor costs, deterioration of employee relations, slowdowns or work stoppages at any of our locations, due to 30 Table of Contents employee turnover or otherwise, could harm our business and profitability. In addition, high employee turnover could increase our exposure to employee-related litigation. Likewise, the third-party call centers we utilize face similar issues. If any of our products contain defects or errors or if new product releases or services are delayed, our reputation could be harmed, resulting in significant costs to us and impairing our ability to sell our solutions. If our products contain defects, errors or security vulnerabilities, our reputation could be harmed, which could result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our products in the future. In the past, we have encountered product development delays due to errors or defects. We would expect that, despite our testing, errors will be found in new products and product enhancements in the future. Significant errors in our products or services could lead to, among other things: •delays in or loss of market acceptance of our products and services; •diversion of our resources; •a lower rate of license renewals or upgrades for consumer and institutional customers; •injury to our reputation; or •increased service expenses or payment of damages. In addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort or breach of warranty. Our contracts with customers contain provisions relating to warranty disclaimers and liability limitations, which may not be upheld. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management's attention and adversely affect the market's perception of us and our products and services. In addition, if our business liability insurance coverage proves inadequate or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms, or at all, we could face significant financial losses. Our sales to U.S. government agencies and armed forces subject us to special risks that could adversely affect our business. Government sales entail a variety of risks as evidenced by the non-renewal of our contracts with the U.S. Army and the U.S. Marine Corps in 2011. These risks include the following: •government contracts are subject to the approval of appropriations by the United States Congress to fund the expenditures by the agencies under these contracts. Congress often appropriates funds for government agencies on a yearly basis, even though their contracts may call for performance over a number of years; •our products and services are included on a General Services Administration, or GSA, schedule. The loss of the GSA schedule covering our software products and related services could cause us to lose our ability to sell our products and services to U.S. government customers; •we must comply with complex federal procurement laws and regulations in connection with government contracts, which may impose added costs on our business; and •federal government contracts contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that provide government customers with rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts. These rights and remedies allow government clients, among other things, to terminate existing contracts, with short notice, for convenience, without cause, reduce or modify contracts or subcontracts, and claim rights in products, systems, and technology produced by us. 31 Table of Contents If we fail to effectively upgrade our information technology systems, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As part of our efforts to continue improving our internal control over financial reporting, we plan to continue to upgrade our existing financial information technology systems in order to automate several controls that are currently performed manually. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to these upgraded systems, including loss of data and decreases in productivity, as personnel become familiar with these new systems. In addition, our management information systems will require modification and refinement as we grow and as our business needs change, which could prolong difficulties we experience with systems transitions, and we may not always employ the most effective systems for our purposes. If we experience difficulties in implementing new or upgraded information systems or experience significant system failures, or if we are unable to successfully modify our management information systems or respond to changes in our business needs, we may not be able to effectively manage our business and we may fail to meet our reporting obligations. In addition, as a result of the automation of these manual processes, the data produced may cause us to question the accuracy of previously reported financial results. Our software products must interoperate with computer operating systems of our customers. If we are unable to ensure that our products interoperate properly with customer systems, our business could be harmed. Our products must interoperate with our customers' computer systems, including student learning management systems of our institutional customers. As a result, we must continually ensure that our products interoperate properly with these systems. Changes in operating systems, the technologies we incorporate into our products or the computer systems our customers use may damage our business. As our product and service offerings become more complex, our reported revenue may become less predictable. Our planned expansion of products and services will generate more varied sources of revenue than our existing business. In the fourth quarter of 2011, we made announcements regarding our business, including evolving from a CD-ROM based desktop software model to digital services, combining self-study with live online conversational coaching in a multi-device platform. In 2012, we intend to work further on our plans to transition our distribution to more online in the consumer business. The accounting policies that apply to these sources of revenue may be more complex than those that apply to our traditional products and services. In addition, we may change the manner in which we sell our software licenses, and such change could cause delays in revenue recognition in accordance with accounting standards. Under these accounting standards, even if we deliver products and services to, and collect cash from, a customer in a given fiscal period, we may be required to defer recognizing revenue from the sale of such product or service until a future period when all the conditions necessary for revenue recognition have been satisfied. If we move more of our consumer business online we will also collect less cash from our initial transactions with consumers which could substantially decrease our revenues in the short term. Conditions that can cause delays in revenue recognition include software arrangements that have undelivered elements for which we have not yet established vendor specific objective evidence of fair value, requirements that we deliver services for significant enhancements or modifications to customize our software for a particular customer or material customer acceptance criteria. Many of our expenses are fixed and many are based, in significant part, on our expectations of our future revenue and are incurred prior to the sale of our products and services. Therefore, any significant decline in revenue for any period could have an immediate negative impact on our margins, net income and financial results for the period. Our expense levels are based, in significant part, on our estimates of future revenue and many of these expenses are fixed in the short term. As a result, we may be unable to adjust our spending in a 32 Table of Contents timely manner if our revenue falls short of our expectations. Accordingly, any significant shortfall of revenue in relation to our estimates could have an immediate negative effect on our profitability. In addition, as our business evolves, we anticipate increasing our operating expenses to expand our product development, technical support, sales and marketing and administrative organizations. Any such expansion could cause material losses to the extent we do not generate additional revenue sufficient to cover the additional expenses. We may need to raise additional funds to pursue our growth strategy or continue our operations, and we may be unable to raise capital when needed. From time to time, we may seek additional equity or debt financing to provide for the capital expenditures required to finance working capital requirements, continue our expansion, develop new products and services or make acquisitions or other investments. In addition, if our business plans change, general economic, financial or political conditions in our markets change, or other circumstances arise that have a material effect on our cash flow, the anticipated cash needs of our business as well as our conclusions as to the adequacy of our available sources of capital could change significantly. Any of these events or circumstances could result in significant additional funding needs, requiring us to raise additional capital. We cannot predict the timing or amount of any such capital requirements at this time. If financing is not available on satisfactory terms, or at all, we may be unable to expand our business or to develop new business at the rate desired and our results of operations may suffer. Acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances may have an adverse effect on our business. We may make acquisitions or enter into joint ventures and strategic alliances as part of our long-term business strategy. Such transactions involve significant challenges and risks including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy, that we do not realize a satisfactory return on our investment, that we experience difficulty integrating new employees, business systems, and technology, diversion of management's attention from our other businesses or that we acquire undiscovered liabilities such as patent infringement claims or violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. It may take longer than expected to realize the full benefits, such as increased revenue, enhanced efficiencies, or market share, or those benefits may ultimately be smaller than anticipated, or may not be realized. These events could harm our operating results or financial condition. Risks Related to Intellectual Property Rights Protection of our intellectual property is limited, and any misuse of our intellectual property by others, including software piracy, could harm our business, reputation and competitive position. Our intellectual property is important to our success. We believe our trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, pending patents, trade dress and designs are valuable and integral to our success and competitive position. To protect our proprietary rights, we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions and technical measures. We have four issued patents in the United States. We have several patent applications on file in the United States and other countries. However, we do not know whether any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents or whether the examination process will require us to narrow our claims. Even if patents are issued from our patent applications, which is not certain, they may be contested, circumvented or invalidated in the future. Moreover, the rights granted under any issued patents may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages, and, as with any technology, competitors may be able to develop similar or superior technologies now or in the future. In addition, we have not emphasized patents as a source of significant competitive advantage 33 Table of Contents and have instead sought to primarily protect our proprietary rights under laws affording protection for trade secrets, copyright and trademark protection of our products, brands, trademarks and other intellectual property where available and appropriate. However, all of these measures afford only limited protection and may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. In addition, these protections may not be adequate to prevent our competitors or customers from copying or reverse-engineering our products. Third parties could copy all or portions of our products or otherwise obtain, use, distribute and sell our proprietary information without authorization. Third parties may also develop similar or superior technology independently by designing around our intellectual property, which would decrease demand for our products. In addition, our patents may not provide us with any competitive advantages and the patents of others may seriously impede our ability to conduct our business. We protect our products, trade secrets and proprietary information, in part, by requiring all of our employees to enter into agreements providing for the maintenance of confidentiality and the assignment of rights to inventions made by them while employed by us. We also enter into non-disclosure agreements with our technical consultants, customers, vendors and resellers to protect our confidential and proprietary information. We cannot assure you that our confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and other third parties will not be breached, that we will be able to effectively enforce these agreements, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets and other proprietary information will not be disclosed or will otherwise be protected. We rely on contractual and license agreements with third parties in connection with their use of our products and technology. There is no guarantee that such parties will abide by the terms of such agreements or that we will be able to adequately enforce our rights, in part because we rely, in many instances, on "click-wrap" and "shrink-wrap" licenses, which are not negotiated or signed by individual licensees. Accordingly, some provisions of our licenses, including provisions protecting against unauthorized use, copying, transfer, resale and disclosure of the licensed software program, may be unenforceable under the laws of several jurisdictions. Protection of trade secret and other intellectual property rights in the markets in which we operate and compete is highly uncertain and may involve complex legal questions. The laws of countries in which we operate may afford little or no protection to our trade secrets and other intellectual property rights. Although we defend our intellectual property rights and combat unlicensed copying and use of software and intellectual property rights through a variety of techniques, preventing unauthorized use or infringement of our intellectual property rights is inherently difficult. Despite our enforcement efforts against software piracy, we lose significant revenue due to illegal use of our software and from counterfeit copies of our software. If piracy activities increase, it may further harm our business. We also expect that the more successful we are, the more likely that competitors will try to illegally use our proprietary information and develop products that are similar to ours, which may infringe on our proprietary rights. In addition, we could potentially lose future trade secret protection for our source code if any unauthorized disclosure of such code occurs. The loss of future trade secret protection could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality. In addition, any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the trade secret and other intellectual property laws in any country in which we operate may compromise our ability to enforce our trade secret and intellectual property rights. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our confidential information and trade secret protection. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights or if third parties independently develop or gain access to our or similar technologies, our business, revenue, reputation and competitive position could be harmed. 34 Table of Contents Third-party use of our trademarks as keywords in internet search engine advertising programs may direct potential customers to competitors' websites, which could harm our reputation and cause us to lose sales. Competitors and other third parties, including counterfeiters, purchase our trademarks and confusingly similar terms as keywords in internet search engine advertising programs and in the header and text of the resulting sponsored link advertisements in order to divert potential customers to their websites. Preventing such unauthorized use is inherently difficult. If we are unable to protect our trademarks and confusingly similar terms from such unauthorized use, competitors and other third parties may continue to drive potential online customers away from our websites to competing and unauthorized websites, which could harm our reputation and cause us to lose sales. Our trademarks are limited in scope and geographic coverage and may not significantly distinguish us from our competition. We own several federal trademark registrations, including registrations of the Rosetta Stone mark, hold common law trademark rights and have trademark applications pending in the United States and abroad for additional trademarks. Even if federal registrations and registrations in other countries are granted to us, our trademark rights may be challenged. It is also possible that our competitors will adopt trademarks similar to ours, thus impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to customer confusion. In fact, various third parties have registered trademarks that are similar to ours in the United States and overseas. We could incur substantial costs in prosecuting or defending trademark infringement suits. If we fail to effectively enforce our trademark rights, our competitive position and brand recognition may be diminished. We have not registered copyrights for all our products, which may limit our ability to enforce them. We have not registered our copyrights in all of our software, written materials, website information, designs or other copyrightable works. The United States Copyright Act automatically protects all of our copyrightable works, but without a registration we cannot enforce those copyrights against infringers or seek certain statutory remedies for any such infringement. Preventing others from copying our products, written materials and other copyrightable works is important to our overall success in the marketplace. In the event we decide to enforce any of our copyrights against infringers, we will first be required to register the relevant copyrights, and we cannot be sure that all of the material for which we seek copyright registration would be registrable in whole or in part, or that once registered, we would be successful in bringing a copyright claim against any such infringers. We must monitor and protect our internet domain names to preserve their value. We may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe on or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks. We own several domain names that include the terms Rosetta Stone and Rosetta World. Third parties may acquire substantially similar domain names that decrease the value of our domain names and trademarks and other proprietary rights which may hurt our business. Third parties also may acquire country specific domain names in the form of Country Code Top Level Domains which include our trademarks and which prevent us from operating country specific websites from which customers can view our products and engage in transactions with us. Moreover, the regulation of domain names in the United States and foreign countries is subject to change. Governing bodies could appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. In June 2011, ICANN (the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers), the international authority over top-level domain names, gave final approval of the expansion of generic Top Level Domains ("TLDs") which will allow companies and organizations to create additional Web addresses that appear to the right of the "dot," such as already created TLDs, ".com," ".gov" and ".org." Applications for new TLDs currently are being accepted until April 12, 2012. As a result, we may not maintain exclusive 35 Table of Contents rights to all potentially relevant domain names in the United States or in other countries in which we conduct business, which could harm our business or reputation. Moreover, attempts may be made to register our trademarks as new TLDs and we will have to make efforts to enforce our rights against such registration attempts. Claims that we misuse the intellectual property of others could subject us to significant liability and disrupt our business. We may become subject to material claims of infringement by competitors and other third parties with respect to current or future products, e-commerce and other web-related technologies, online business methods, trademarks or other proprietary rights. Our competitors, some of which may have substantially greater resources than we have and they have made significant investments in competing products and technologies, may have, or seek to apply for and obtain, patents, copyrights or trademarks that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use and sell our current and future products and technologies, and we may not be successful in defending allegations of infringement of these patents, copyrights or trademarks. Further, we may not be aware of all of the patents and other intellectual property rights owned by third parties that may be potentially adverse to our interests. We may need to resort to litigation to enforce our proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity of a third-party's patents or other proprietary rights, including whether any of our products, technologies or processes infringe the patents or other proprietary rights of third parties. We may incur substantial expenses in defending against third-party infringement claims regardless of the merit of such claims. The outcome of any such proceedings is uncertain and, if unfavorable, could force us to discontinue sales of the affected products or impose significant penalties or restrictions on our business. We do not conduct comprehensive patent searches to determine whether the technologies used in our products infringe upon patents held by others. In addition, product development is inherently uncertain in a rapidly evolving technological environment in which there may be numerous patent applications pending, many of which are confidential when filed, with regard to similar technologies. We do not own all of the software, other technologies and content used in our products and services. Some of our products and services include intellectual property owned by third parties, including software that is integrated with internally developed software and a portion of our voice recognition software, which we license from the University of Colorado. From time to time we may be required to renegotiate with these third parties or negotiate with new third parties to include their technology or content in our existing products, in new versions of our existing products or in wholly new products. We may not be able to negotiate or renegotiate licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and the third-party software may not be appropriately supported, maintained or enhanced by the licensors. If we are unable to obtain the rights necessary to use or continue to use third-party technology or content in our products and services, the inability to support, maintain and enhance any software could result in increased costs, or in delays or reductions in product shipments until equivalent software could be developed, identified, licensed and integrated. Our use of open source software could impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our products. We incorporate open source software into our products and may use more open source software in the future. The use of open source software is governed by license agreements. The terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. In such event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products, make generally available, in source code form, proprietary code that links to certain open source modules, re-engineer our products, discontinue the sale of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a cost-effective and timely basis, or 36 Table of Contents become subject to other consequences. In addition, open source licenses generally do not provide warranties or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the code. Thus, we may have little or no recourse if we become subject to infringement claims relating to the open source software or if the open source software is defective in any manner. Risks Related to Owning Our Common Stock Some of our stockholders could together exert significant influence over our company. As of December 31, 2011, funds affiliated with ABS Capital Partners beneficially owned in the aggregate shares representing approximately 25% of our outstanding voting power. Two managing members of the general partner of ABS Capital Partners currently serve on our board of directors. Additionally, as of December 31, 2011, Norwest Equity Partners VIII, LP, or Norwest, beneficially owned in the aggregate shares representing approximately 16% of our outstanding voting power. One managing member of the general partner of Norwest currently serves on our board of directors. As a result, these stockholders could together potentially have significant influence over all matters presented to our stockholders for approval, including election and removal of our directors and change of control transactions. The interests of these stockholders may not always coincide with the interests of the other holders of our common stock. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they publish negative evaluations of our stock, the price of our stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts covering our business downgrade their evaluations of or recommendations regarding our stock, or if one or more of the analysts cease providing research coverage on our stock, the price of our stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts cease providing research coverage on our stock, we could lose visibility in the market for our stock, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Provisions in our organizational documents and in the Delaware General Corporation Law may prevent takeover attempts that could be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions in our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and second amended and restated bylaws, and in the Delaware General Corporation Law, may make it difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a takeover attempt we oppose even if a change in control of our company would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. Any provision of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation or second amended and restated bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the powers, preferences and rights of each series without stockholder approval. The ability to issue preferred stock could discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our company, or otherwise could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Further, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. This section generally prohibits us from engaging in mergers and other business combinations with stockholders that beneficially own 15% or more of our voting stock, or with their affiliates, unless our directors or stockholders approve the business combination in the prescribed manner. However, because funds affiliated with ABS Capital Partners and Norwest acquired their shares prior to our initial public offering, Section 203 is currently inapplicable to any business combination or transaction with them or their affiliates. In addition, our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation includes a classified board of directors and requires that any action to be 37 Table of Contents taken by stockholders must be taken at a duly called meeting of stockholders and may not be taken by written consent. Our second amended and restated bylaws require that any stockholder proposals or nominations for election to our board of directors must meet specific advance notice requirements and procedures, which make it more difficult for our stockholders to make proposals or director nominations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 