Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business and us. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. In addition, please read "Special Note About Forward-Looking Statements" in this Form 10-K, where we describe additional uncertainties associated with our business and the forward-looking statements included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. Please note that additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business and operations. Risks Related to Frontier We may not be able to obtain or secure financing for our new aircraft. As of March 31, 2007, we have remaining firm purchase commitments for 13 aircraft from Airbus (three Airbus 318 aircraft and ten Airbus 320 aircraft) and ten Q400 aircraft from Bombardier. We have secured financing commitments for all ten of the Bombardier aircraft and three Airbus A318 aircraft deliveries through February 2008 totaling approximately $225.3 million. To complete the purchase of the remaining ten A320 Airbus aircraft, we must secure aircraft financing totaling approximately $320.0 million, which we may not be able to obtain on terms acceptable to us, if at all. The terms of the purchase agreement do not allow for cancellations of any of the purchase commitments. The amount of financing required will depend on the required down payment on mortgage-financed aircraft and the extent to which we lease as opposed to purchase the aircraft. We are exploring various financing alternatives, including, but not limited to, domestic and foreign bank financing, leveraged lease arrangements or sale/leaseback transactions. There can be no guarantee that additional financing will be available when required or will be on acceptable terms. Our inability to secure the financing could have a material adverse effect on our cash balances or result in delays in or our inability to take delivery of Airbus aircraft that we have agreed to purchase. The failure to take these future deliveries would impair our strategy for long-term growth and could result in the loss of pre-delivery payments and deposits previously paid to the manufacturer, and the imposition of other penalties or the payment of damages in accordance with the terms of the purchase agreement with the manufacturer. Additionally, the terms of the purchase agreement with the manufacturer would require us to pay penalties or damages in the event of any breach of contract with our supplier, including possible termination of the agreement. As of March 31, 2007, we had made pre-delivery payments on future aircraft deliveries totaling $52,453,000, of which $14,833,000 relates to aircraft for which we have not yet secured financing and $37,620,000 relates to aircraft for which we have secured financing. We have a significant amount of fixed obligations and we will incur significantly more fixed obligations, which could increase the risk of failing to meet payment obligations. As of March 31, 2007, our total debt was $478.8 million, including $92.0 million of convertible debt due in December 2025 that was issued in December 2005. Maturities of our long-term debt are $26.8 million in fiscal year 2008, $28.4 million in fiscal year 2009, $30.1 million in fiscal year 2010, $31.9 million in 2011, $51.0 million in 2012, and an aggregate of $310.6 million for the years thereafter. In addition, total interest due for our fixed obligations is $246.1 million in the aggregate. Maturities of long-term debt and interest due are based on the stated maturity; however, the convertible notes are callable by holders of the notes in December 2010. Our total existing long-term debt has 73.6% that bears floating interest rates and the remaining 26.4% bears fixed rates. In addition to long-term debt, we have a significant amount of other fixed obligations under operating leases related to our aircraft, airport terminal space, other airport facilities and office space. As of March 31, 2007, future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases were approximately $164.0 million in fiscal year 2008, $172.0 million in fiscal year 2009, $181.6 million in fiscal year 2010, $168.4 million in fiscal year 2011, $166.5 million in fiscal year 2012 and an aggregate of $837.9 million for the years thereafter. Approximately 85.8% of our minimum lease payments related to aircraft and leased engines are fixed in nature, and the remaining 14.2% are adjusted periodically based on floating interest rates. As of March 31, 2007, we had commitments of 16 Table of Contents approximately $721.8 million to purchase 23 additional aircraft over approximately the next four years, including estimated amounts for contractual price escalations, spare parts to support these aircraft and to equip the aircraft with LiveTV, and obligations relating to a service agreement with Sabre Travel Network. We expect to incur additional debt or long-term lease obligations as we take delivery of new aircraft and other equipment and continue to expand into new markets. Many of our financial obligations contain cross-default provisions. Many of our financial arrangements contain cross-default provisions. As a result, if we default in our payment or performance obligations under one of our financial arrangements and, in some cases, if the amount due thereunder is accelerated, other financial arrangements may be declared in default and accelerated even though we are meeting payment and performance obligations on those other arrangements. If this occurs, we may not have sufficient available cash to pay all amounts that are then due and payable under our lease and loan agreements, and we may have to seek additional debt or equity financing, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If alternative financing were not available, we would have to sell assets in order to obtain the funds required to make the accelerated payments or seek ways to restructure the lease and loan obligations. Our failure to successfully implement our growth strategy could harm our business. As of March 31, 2007, our growth strategy involves adding 13 additional Airbus aircraft and ten Bombardier Q400 aircraft, which we could choose to increase to 30 total Airbus aircraft (including the exercise of 17 additional purchase rights) and 20 Bombardier aircraft (including the exercise of ten additional options), increasing the frequency of flights to markets we currently serve, expanding the number of markets served and increasing flight connection opportunities. The purchase rights on our Airbus aircraft expire on July 1, 2007 and our last option expires on December 1, 2007 for our Bombardier aircraft, subject to additional extension rights. It is critical that we achieve our growth strategy in order for our business to attain economies of scale and to sustain or improve our results of operations. Increasing the number of markets we serve depends on our ability to access suitable airports located in our targeted geographic markets in a manner that is consistent with our cost strategy. While we currently have sufficient gates and facilities at DIA to accommodate our current level of operations, our continued mainline expansion, the increase of our regional jet fleet from nine to 17 aircraft, and the initiation of turboprop service by Lynx Aviation expected in September 2007, may require us to obtain additional gates and other operational facilities at our Denver hub. Any condition that would deny, limit or delay our access to airports we seek to serve in the future will constrain our ability to grow or cause us to move some of our capacity to other airports. This would limit our ability to leverage our hub and spoke network. Additionally, traffic may not materialize in new markets. Opening new markets requires us to commit a substantial amount of resources, even before the new services commence. Expansion will also require additional skilled personnel, equipment and facilities. An inability to hire and retain skilled personnel or to secure the required equipment and facilities efficiently and cost-effectively may negatively affect our ability to achieve our growth strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully expand our existing markets or establish new markets, and our failure to do so could harm our business. Growth of our fleet and expansion of our markets and services may also strain our existing management resources and systems to the point that they may no longer be adequate to support our operations, requiring us to make significant expenditures in these areas. We may need to further develop our information technology systems and other corporate infrastructure to accommodate future growth, particularly with respect to efficient Internet ticket sales and passenger check-in capabilities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to sufficiently develop our systems and infrastructure on a timely basis, and the failure to do so could harm our business. 17 Table of Contents We depend heavily on the Denver market to be successful. Our business strategy has historically focused on adding flights to and from our Denver base of operations. Currently, 96% of our flights originate or depart from DIA. A reduction in our share of the Denver market, increased competition, or reduced passenger traffic to or from Denver could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our dependence on a hub system operating out of DIA makes us more susceptible to adverse weather conditions and other traffic delays in the Rocky Mountain region than some of our competitors that may be better able to spread these traffic risks over larger route networks. We face intense competition and market dominance by United Airlines and other airlines at DIA, and Southwest Airlines service to and from Denver, has increased competition on certain of our routes. The airline industry is highly competitive, primarily due to the effects of the Airline Deregulation Act of 1978, which substantially eliminated government authority to regulate domestic routes and fares and increased the ability of airlines to compete with respect to flight frequencies and fares. We compete with United in our hub in Denver, and we anticipate that we will compete with United in any additional markets we elect to serve in the future. United, Ted, and United’s regional airline affiliates are the dominant carriers out of DIA, accounting for approximately 55.4% of all revenue passengers out of DIA for the month of March 2007. In addition, Southwest Airlines started service to and from Denver in January 2006 and currently has 36 daily departures. Southwest’s introductory fares were significantly below the fares we were able to obtain prior to its arrival. Fare pressure exerted by Southwest on its announced routes and on any future expansion in Denver by Southwest will require us to be fare competitive, and may place additional downward pressure on our yields. In addition, in the last four years Alaska Airlines, JetBlue Airways and AirTran Airways have commenced service at DIA. These airlines have offered low introductory fares and compete on several of our routes. Fare wars, predatory pricing, ‘‘capacity dumping,’’ in which a competitor places additional aircraft on selected routes, and other competitive activities could adversely affect us. The future activities of United, Southwest and other carriers may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. United currently operates ten flights a week to Mexico that compete with our current routes to Mexico. Most of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial resources, larger route networks, and superior market identity. Denver is also a hub for United’s low-cost operation Ted, which began in February 2004. United’s scale and ability to lower the costs of its mainline operations through its bankruptcy may continue to place downward pressure on airfares charged in the Denver market and adversely affect our market share at DIA and our ability to maintain yields required for profitable operations. The potential for United and Southwest to place downward pressure on airfares charged in the Denver market may impair our ability to maintain yields required for profitable operations. Competition on our Mexican routes may increase due to recent regulatory changes, which may adversely impact some of our most important markets. The U.S. and Mexico amended their bilateral agreement relating to commercial air service. Previously, only two U.S. based airlines were permitted to provide air service between city pairs in the U.S. and Mexico. In many cases, we were one of the two U.S. based airlines providing service to the cities we serve in Mexico. The amendments to the bilateral agreement expanded the authorized service levels to three U.S. based airlines per city pair. It is therefore highly likely that we will see other airlines seeking to add service to some of the Mexico destinations we serve, which would increase competition and perhaps place downward pressure on airfares in these markets. Flights to resort destinations in Mexico have represented a significant portion of our vacation-oriented operations, and if competition results in lower load factors or airfares on our Mexico flights, our operating results may be adversely impacted. United currently operates ten flights a week to Mexico that compete with our current routes to Mexico. 18 Table of Contents We may not have access to adequate gates or airport slots, which could decrease our competitiveness. The number of gates, ticket counter or office space available to us at DIA, or any other airport where we operate or seek to commence operations in the future, may be limited due to the lack of available space or disruptions caused by airport renovation projects. Available facilities may not provide for the best overall service to our customers and may prevent us from scheduling our flights during peak or opportune times. The lack of available facilities may limit our ability to expand service to certain cities or restrict our ability to plan departures and arrivals in a manner that provides efficient service or connecting times to and through our Denver hub. Inefficient operations may result in a reduction in passenger bookings or lost revenue. In the U.S., the FAA currently regulates slot allocations at O’Hare International Airport in Chicago, at JFK and LaGuardia Airports in New York City, and at Ronald Reagan National Airport in Washington D.C. John Wayne Airport in Orange County also limits arrivals and departures at its airport for noise control purposes. We currently operate at LaGuardia Airport, Ronald Reagan National Airport and John Wayne Airport through arrival and departure slots at these airports. In each case, the agencies controlling slot allocations reserve the right to recall slot allocations for, among other reasons, lack of meeting frequency or capacity requirements. If we lose existing slot allocations, are denied requests for additional slot allocations at these airports, or are denied slot allocations at other slot-controlled airports where we wish to operate in the future, our ability to provide service would be restricted, eliminated, or reduced. Because these cities represent key markets, the resulting restriction on our service could negatively effect our results of operations. We experience high costs at DIA, which may impact our results of operations. We operate our hub of flight operations from DIA where we experience high costs. Financed through revenue bonds, DIA depends on landing fees, gate rentals, income from airlines, the traveling public, and other fees to generate income to service its debt and to support its operations. Our cost of operations at DIA will vary as traffic increases or diminishes at the airport or as significant improvement projects are undertaken by the airport. We believe that our operating costs at DIA substantially exceed those that other airlines incur at most hub airports in other cities, which decreases our ability to compete with other airlines with lower costs at their hub airports. In addition, United represents a significant tenant at DIA. In connection with United’s bankruptcy, United and DIA restructured United’s lease agreement in a fashion that reduces the amounts United is required to pay under its lease. Normally, the decrease in payments by United would result in the increase in amounts paid by all other airlines. At this time, however, the City and County of Denver has agreed to offset the decrease in payments negotiated by United. The city’s obligation to make these offset payments is subject to rescission in certain circumstances. If these payments are rescinded or if United otherwise significantly reduces operations at DIA, the overall costs at DIA may significantly increase for all other carriers operating at DIA, including ourselves. Also, we have recently added six additional gates in Concourse A, related holdroom space and more space to accommodate our DIA regional operations. Our all-Airbus mainline fleet creates certain concentration risks. As of March 31, 2007, we operated 57 Airbus aircraft. We completed our transition from Boeing aircraft to operating only Airbus aircraft on our mainline routes in April 2005. One of the key elements of this strategy is to produce cost savings because crew training is standardized for aircraft of a common type, maintenance issues are simplified, spare parts inventory is reduced, and scheduling is more efficient. We cannot assure you that we will achieve all of the cost savings we anticipated from the fleet transition. Since we operate only Airbus aircraft on our mainline routes and GE engines, we are dependent on single manufacturers for future aircraft acquisitions or deliveries, spare parts or warranty service. If Airbus is unable to perform its obligations under existing purchase agreements, 19 Table of Contents or is unable to provide future aircraft or services, whether by fire, strike or other events that affect its ability to fulfill contractual obligations or manufacture aircraft or spare parts, we would have to find another supplier for our aircraft. If acceptable Airbus aircraft were otherwise not available in the marketplace, Boeing is the only other manufacturer from which we could purchase or lease alternate aircraft. If we were forced to acquire Boeing aircraft, we would need to address fleet transition issues, including substantial costs associated with retraining our employees, acquiring new spare parts, and replacing our manuals. In addition, the fleet efficiency benefits described above may no longer be available. Our business would be significantly disrupted if an FAA airworthiness directive or service bulletin were issued that resulted in the grounding of Airbus aircraft or GE engines of the type we operate while the defect was being corrected. Our business could also be harmed if the public avoids flying Airbus aircraft due to an adverse perception about the aircraft’s safety or dependability, whether real or perceived, in the event of an accident or other incident involving an Airbus aircraft of the type we fly. If we, through our new subsidiary Lynx Aviation, fail to successfully take delivery of and operate reliably the new Bombardier Q400 aircraft we agreed to purchase, our business could be harmed. Acquisition of a new type of aircraft, such as the Bombardier Q400, which we plan to place into revenue service in September 2007, involves a variety of risks relating to its ability to be successfully placed into service, including delays in meeting the agreed upon delivery schedule and the inability of the aircraft and all of its components to comply with agreed upon specifications and performance standards. In addition, Lynx Aviation needs to obtain a certificate of public convenience and necessity and an operating certificate in order to operate these aircraft. Application for these government authorizations was submitted in January 2007 and we anticipate receiving these authorizations in time for Lynx Aviation to commence operations in September 2007. However, approval of our application could be delayed. In the meantime, we are incurring significant start-up costs for Lynx, including the hiring and training of employees and making pre-delivery payments on the Bombardier Q400 aircraft. We are also required to purchase these aircraft in accordance with the timing and terms of our purchase agreement with Bombardier. Any delay in the ability for Lynx Aviation to commence operations and generate revenues while we continue to incur these significant start-up costs will likely have a significant impact on our results of operations. 20 Table of Contents We rely on one vendor to provide our LiveTV service. One of the unique features of our Airbus fleet is that every seat in each of our Airbus aircraft is equipped with LiveTV. LiveTV is provided by a subsidiary of JetBlue Airways, a competitor of ours. We do not know of any other company that could provide us economically with LiveTV equipment and related satellite signals for programming. Our LiveTV installations have exceeded the number of installations provided for in our contract with the supplier of LiveTV, and although we have had discussions with the supplier about expanding the number of aircraft covered by the contract, we have not finalized the terms of an expanded agreement. If the supplier of LiveTV were to stop supplying us with the equipment or service for any reason, or refused to supply equipment for our future aircraft deliveries, we could lose one of the unique services that we believe differentiates us from our competitors. Our maintenance expenses may be higher than we anticipate and will increase as our fleet ages. We bear the cost of all routine and major maintenance on our owned and leased aircraft. Maintenance expenses comprise a significant portion of our operating expenses. In addition, we are required periodically to take aircraft out of service for heavy maintenance checks, which can increase costs and reduce revenue. We also may be required to comply with regulations and airworthiness directives the FAA issues, the cost of which our aircraft lessors may only partially assume depending upon the magnitude of the expense. Although we believe that our owned and leased aircraft are currently in compliance with all FAA issued airworthiness directives, additional airworthiness directives likely will be required in the future, necessitating additional expense. Because the average age of our aircraft is approximately 3.3 years, our aircraft require less maintenance now than they will in the future. We have incurred lower maintenance expenses because most of the parts on our aircraft are under multi-year warranties. Our maintenance costs will increase significantly, both on an absolute basis and as a percentage of our operating expenses, as our fleet ages and these warranties expire. We may need to make other arrangements for our maintenance facility. We currently sublease a substantial part of a maintenance hangar located at DIA from Continental Airlines. We use this facility to perform our heavy maintenance and some of our line maintenance. The sublease has expired and attempts to negotiate a fixed term extension have been unsuccessful to date. Therefore, we are currently renting this facility on a month-to-month basis. Continental has also indicated that it may reduce the amount of space we could sublease. The space reduction would prevent us from accommodating both our heavy and line maintenance functions at the Continental hangar. If Continental reduces the space covered by a sublease extension, or if we receive a notice to vacate from Continental, our maintenance operations would be significantly disrupted and we would likely need to rely on outside maintenance providers to cover our maintenance requirements until we located a new facility or facilities. This disruption would significantly increase our costs. We are currently is the design stages of a new line maintenance facility at DIA and are moving aggressively to complete this project, but it may not be completed prior to a reduction in our subleased space or our need to vacate the Continental facility. We have also issued a request for proposals for the lease or construction of new or existing hangar and shop space to accommodate our heavy maintenance functions. This facility may be located at DIA or elsewhere, depending on the responses we receive. If we are required to relocate our heavy maintenance operations, we will incur relocation expenses and our heavy maintenance operations will likely be disrupted during the relocation process. The inability to procure new maintenance facilities in a timely fashion may cause us to increase our overall maintenance costs. Further, the lease or financing costs of a new facility or facilities may be higher than those of our current sublease with Continental. 21 Table of Contents Our landing fees may increase because of local noise abatement procedures. As a result of litigation and pressure from residents in the areas surrounding airports, airport operators have taken actions over the years to reduce aircraft noise. These actions have included regulations requiring aircraft to meet prescribed decibel limits by designated dates, curfews during nighttime hours, restrictions on frequency of aircraft operations, and various operational procedures for noise abatement. The Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 recognized the right of airport operators with special noise problems to implement local noise abatement procedures as long as the procedures do not interfere unreasonably with the interstate and foreign commerce of the national air transportation system. Compliance with local noise abatement procedures may lead to increased landing fees. An agreement between the City and County of Denver and another county adjacent to Denver specifies maximum aircraft noise levels at designated monitoring points in the vicinity of DIA with significant payments payable by the city to the other county for each substantiated noise violation under the agreement. DIA has incurred these payment obligations and likely will incur such obligations in the future, which it will pass on to us and other air carriers serving DIA by increasing landing fees. Additionally, noise regulations could be enacted in the future that would increase our expenses and could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Unionization affects our costs and may affect our operations. Five of our employee groups are represented by unions: our pilots, dispatchers, mechanics, material specialist and aircraft appearance agents. In addition, since 1997 we have had union organizing attempts that were defeated by our flight attendants and ramp service agents. The collective bargaining agreement with our pilots union, FAPA, expired in May 2005. In February 2007, FAPA membership ratified a four year agreement that amends the previous five-year contract signed in May 2005. In March 2006, our material specialists voted for union representation by the IBT, which affects approximately 22 employees. We are currently in the process of negotiating their first agreement. In September 2006, the contract with our dispatchers, who are represented by the TWU, expired. We are currently in the process of re-negotiating this agreement, which affects approximately 16 employees. If we are unable to reach agreement with any of the represented work groups whose contracts are currently being negotiated, or if currently non-unionized employees were to unionize and we were unable to reach agreement on the terms of their employment, we may need to go to mediation and may experience widespread employee dissatisfaction. We could be subject to work slowdowns or stoppages. In addition, we may be subject to disruptions by organized labor groups protesting certain groups for their non-union status or conducting sympathy action for fellow members striking at other airlines. Any of these events would be disruptive to our operations and could harm our business. The lack of marketing alliances could harm our business. Many airlines have marketing alliances with other airlines, under which they market and advertise their status as marketing alliance partners. Among other things, they share the use of two-letter flight designator codes to identify their flights and fares in the computerized reservation systems and permit reciprocity in their frequent flyer programs. We do not have an extensive network of marketing partners. The lack of marketing alliances puts us at a competitive disadvantage to global network carriers, whose ability to attract passengers through more widespread alliances, particularly on international routes, may adversely affect our passenger traffic and our results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Our lack of higher borrowing capacity under our current lines of credit and our lack of other borrowing facilities makes us highly dependent upon our existing cash and operating cash flows. Airlines require substantial liquidity to operate. We have a line of credit with a maximum borrowing amount of $20.0 million based on 60% of the value of certain spare parts inventory. As of May 18, 2007, based on our eligible spare parts inventory, we could borrow up to $16.5 million, which was reduced by letters of credit issued of $11.3 million as of March 31, 2007. We also have an additional revolving line of credit for $5.8 million, and we can issue letters of credit for up to $5.0 million of which $4.8 million had been issued as of March 31, 2007. Our limited borrowing capacity means we rely primarily on operating cash flows to provide working capital. Unless we secure additional borrowing capacity under lines of credit, borrowing facilities or other financing, we will be dependent upon our existing cash and operating cash flows to fund our operations and to make scheduled payments on our debt and other fixed obligations. If we deplete our existing cash, fail to generate sufficient funds from operations to meet these cash requirements and are unable to secure additional lines of credit, borrowing facility or other financing, we could default on our debt and other fixed obligations. Our inability to meet our obligations as they become due would seriously harm our business and financial results, particularly in light of the cross-default clauses contained in many of our financing arrangements. 23 Table of Contents If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel at reasonable costs, our business will be harmed. Our business is labor intensive, with labor costs totaling $246.6 million, $219.4 million and $202.3 million for the years ended March 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We expect salaries, wages and benefits to increase on a gross basis. These costs could increase as a percentage of our overall costs, which could harm our business. Our growth plans will require us to hire, train and retain a significant number of new employees in the future. From time to time, the airline industry has experienced a shortage of personnel licensed by the FAA, especially pilots and mechanics. We compete against the major U.S. airlines for labor in these highly skilled positions. Many of the major U.S. airlines offer wage and benefit packages that exceed our wage and benefit packages. As a result, in the future, we may have to increase significantly wages and benefits in order to attract and retain qualified personnel or risk considerable employee turnover. If we are unable to hire, train and retain qualified employees at a reasonable cost, we may be unable to complete our growth plans and our business could be harmed. We rely heavily on automated systems and technology to operate our business and any failure of these systems could harm our business. We are increasingly dependent on automated systems and technology to operate our business, enhance customer service and achieve low operating costs, including our computerized airline reservation system, telecommunication systems, website, check-in kiosks and in-flight entertainment systems. Substantial or repeated system failures to any of the above systems could reduce the attractiveness of our services and could result in our customers purchasing tickets from another airline. Any disruptions in these systems could result in the loss of important data, increase our expenses and generally harm our business. In addition, a seemingly high percentage of customers have been booking flights on our airline through third-party websites, which has increased our distribution costs. If any of these third-party websites experiences system failures or discontinues listing our flights on its systems, our bookings and revenues may be adversely impacted. We implement improvements to our website and reservations system from time to time. Implementation of changes to these systems may cause operational and financial disruptions if we experience transition or system cutover issues, if the new systems do not perform as we expect them to, or if vendors do not deliver systems upgrades or other components on a timely basis. Any such disruptions may have the effect of discouraging some travelers from purchasing tickets from us and increasing our reservations staffing. 24 Table of Contents Risks Associated with the Airline Industry The airline industry has incurred significant losses resulting in airline restructuring and bankruptcies, which could result in changes in our industry. Financial losses throughout the airline industry in recent years have resulted in airlines renegotiating or attempting to renegotiate labor contracts, reconfiguring flight schedules, furloughing or terminating employees, and taking other efficiency and cost-cutting measures. Despite these actions, several airlines have sought reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, which permits them to reduce labor rates, restructure debt, terminate pension plans and generally reduce their cost structure. Such factors may have a greater impact during time periods when the industry encounters continued financial losses, as airlines under financial pressures may institute pricing structures to achieve near-term survival rather than long-term viability. It is foreseeable that further airline reorganizations, bankruptcies, or consolidations may occur, the effects of which we are unable to predict. We cannot assure you that the occurrence of these events, or potential changes resulting from these events, will not harm our business or the industry. We may be subject to terrorist attacks or other acts of war and increased costs or reductions in demand for air travel due to hostilities in the Middle East or other parts of the world. Although the entire industry is substantially enhancing security equipment and procedures, it is impossible to guarantee that additional terrorist attacks, such as the terrorist attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001 and more recent threats in August 2006, or other acts of war will not occur. Given the weakened state of the airline industry, if additional terrorist attacks or acts of war occur, particularly in the near future, it can be expected that the impact of those attacks on the industry may be similar in nature to but substantially greater than those resulting from the September 11 terrorist attacks. Increases in fuel costs affect our operating costs and competitiveness. Fuel is a major component of our operating expenses, accounting for 31.8% of our total operating expenses for the year ended March 31, 2007, up from 31.1% for the year ended March 31, 2006. On an actual basis, mainline fuel costs including the impact of hedging increased to $343.1 million, representing an average cost of $2.12 per gallon, from $281.9 million, or $1.99 per gallon, over the same periods. Both the cost and availability of fuel are influenced by many economic and political factors and events occurring in oil-producing countries throughout the world, which causes fuel costs to fluctuate widely. High oil prices have had a significant adverse impact on our results of operations over the past two fiscal years. We cannot predict our future cost and availability of fuel, or the impact or further disruptions in oil supplies or refinery productivity based on natural disasters, which affect our ability to compete. The unavailability of adequate fuel supplies could have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. In addition, larger airlines may have a competitive advantage because they pay lower prices for fuel and other airlines, such as Southwest Airlines, may have substantial fuel hedges that give them a competitive advantage. We generally follow industry trends by imposing a fuel surcharge in response to significant fuel price increases. However, our ability to pass on increased fuel costs have been and may continue to be limited by economic and competitive conditions. Although we implemented a fuel hedging program in 2003, under which we entered into Gulf Coast jet fuel and West Texas Intermediate crude derivative contracts that are intended to partially protect us against significant increases in fuel prices, this program is limited in fuel volume and duration. As of March 31, 2007, we had hedged following percentages for our projected fuel requirements as follows: ● Approximately 46% for the quarter ending June 30, 2007 ● Approximately 30% for the quarter ending September 30, 2007 ● Approximately 40% for the quarter ending December 31, 2007 ● Approximately 19% for the quarter ending March 31, 2008 25 Table of Contents The airline industry is seasonal and cyclical, resulting in unpredictable liquidity and earnings. Because the airline industry is seasonal and cyclical, our liquidity and earnings will fluctuate and be unpredictable. Our operations primarily depend on passenger travel demand and seasonal variations. Our weakest travel periods are generally during the quarters ending in March and December. The airline industry is also a highly cyclical business with substantial volatility. Airlines frequently experience short-term cash requirements. These requirements are caused by seasonal fluctuations in traffic, which often reduce cash during off-peak periods, and various other factors, including price competition from other airlines, national and international events, fuel prices, and general economic conditions including inflation. Our operating and financial results are likely to be negatively impacted by national or regional economic conditions in the U.S., and particularly in Colorado. Our current insurance costs could increase if the U.S. government does not provide war risk coverage to airlines. Following the September 11 terrorist attacks, aviation insurers dramatically increased airline insurance premiums and significantly reduced the maximum amount of insurance coverage available to airlines for liability to persons other than passengers for claims resulting from acts of terrorism, war or similar events to $50 million per event and in the aggregate. In light of this development, under the Air Transportation Safety and System Stabilization Act, the U.S. government has provided domestic airlines with excess war risk coverage above $50 million up to an estimated $1.6 billion per event for us. In December 2002, through authority granted under the Homeland Security Act of 2002, the U.S. government expanded its insurance program to enable airlines to elect either the government’s excess third-party war risk coverage or for the government to become the primary insurer for all war risks coverage. We elected to take primary government coverage in February 2003 and dropped the commercially available war risk coverage. The current government war risk policy is in effect until August 31, 2007. We do not know whether the government will extend the coverage beyond August 31, 2007 and if it does how long the extension will last. We expect that if the government stops providing excess war risk coverage to the airline industry, the premiums charged by aviation insurers for this coverage will be substantially higher than the premiums currently charged by the government or the coverage will not be available from reputable underwriters. Significant increases in insurance premiums would harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our financial results and reputation could be harmed in the event of an accident or incident involving our aircraft. An accident or incident involving one of our aircraft could involve repair or replacement of a damaged aircraft and its consequential temporary or permanent loss from service, and significant potential claims of injured passengers and others. We are required by the DOT and our lenders and lessors to carry hull, liability and war risk insurance. Although we believe we currently maintain liability insurance in amounts and of the type generally consistent with industry practice, the amount of such coverage may not be adequate and we may be forced to bear substantial losses from an accident. Substantial claims resulting from an accident in excess of our related insurance coverage would harm our business and financial results. Moreover, any aircraft accident or incident, even if fully insured, could cause a public perception that we are less safe or reliable than other airlines, which would harm our business. 26 Table of Contents We are in a high fixed cost business, and any unexpected decrease in revenues would harm us. The airline industry is characterized by low profit margins and high fixed costs primarily for personnel, fuel, aircraft ownership and lease costs and other rents. The expenses of an aircraft flight do not vary significantly with the number of passengers carried and, as a result, a relatively small change in the number of passengers or in pricing would have a disproportionate effect on our operating and financial results. Accordingly, a shortfall from expected revenue levels can have a material adverse effect on our profitability and liquidity. We are often affected by factors beyond our control, including weather conditions, traffic congestion at airports and increased security measures, and irrational pricing from competitors, any of which could harm our operating results and financial condition. Delays or cancellations due to adverse weather conditions or other factors beyond our control could adversely affect us. Like other airlines, we are subject to delays caused by factors beyond our control, including adverse weather conditions, air traffic congestion at airports and increased security measures. Delays frustrate passengers, reduce aircraft utilization and increase costs, all of which negatively affect profitability. During periods of snow, rain, fog, hurricanes or other storms, or other adverse weather conditions, flights may be cancelled or significantly delayed. Cancellations or delays due to weather conditions, traffic control problems and breaches in security could harm our operating results and financial condition. In December 2006 and January 2007, major snow storms in Denver, Colorado had a significant negative impact on our operating results. In the December 2006 snow storms, we cancelled 875 flights, 104,567 passengers were impacted and one storm completely shut down DIA for almost 48 hours. We estimate that this storm reduced our revenue for the quarter ended December 31, 2006 by approximately $13,200,000 ($12,200,000 in mainline passenger revenue and $1,000,000 in regional partner revenue) and $3,500,000 in January 2007. In addition, the snow storms increased many variable costs including $3,300,000 in additional glycol expenses over the prior year and $889,000 in additional wages related to our flight crews and station personnel, offset by a reduction of fuel, landing fees, maintenance expenses and catering expenses of $3,306,000. We are subject to strict federal regulations, and compliance with federal regulations increases our costs and decreases our revenues. Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal requirements that involve significant compliance costs. Any future changes in regulatory oversight of airlines generally, or low-fare carriers in particular, could result in a material increase in our operating expenses or otherwise hinder our business. In the last several years, Congress has passed laws and the DOT and FAA have issued regulations relating to the operation of airlines that have required significant expenditures. For example, the President signed into law the Stabilization Act in November 2001. This law federalized substantially all aspects of civil aviation security and requires, among other things, the implementation of certain security measures by airlines and airports, including a requirement that all passenger baggage be screened. Funding for airline and airport security under the law is primarily provided by a $2.50 per enplanement ticket tax effective February 1, 2002, with authority granted to the TSA to impose additional fees on air carriers if necessary. Under the Appropriations Act enacted on April 16, 2003, the $2.50 enplanement tax was temporarily suspended on ticket sales from June 1, 2003 through September 30, 2003. This enplanement tax resumed on October 1, 2003, and recently proposed legislation, although unsuccessful to date, would increase the ticket tax to $5.00 per enplanement. To the extent this increase could not be passed on to the passenger, it would result in a significant increase in our cost of operations. In addition, the acquisition, installation and operation of the required baggage screening systems by airports will result in capital expenses and costs by those airports that will likely be passed on to the airlines through increased use and landing fees. On February 17, 2002, the Stabilization Act imposed a base security infrastructure fee on commercial air carriers in an amount equal to the calendar year ended 2000 airport security expenses. The infrastructure fee for us is $1,625,000 annually subject to final audit. Pursuant to authority granted to the TSA to impose additional fees on air carriers if necessary to cover additional federal 27 Table of Contents aviation security costs, the TSA has imposed an additional annual Security Infrastructure Fee on certain airlines, including Frontier. A revision in the fee structure assessed by the TSA could result in increased cost for us. The airline industry has opposed and disagrees with the higher assessment and is working with the TSA on a resolution. Although we have obtained the necessary authority from the DOT and the FAA to conduct flight operations and are currently seeking such authority from the FAA with respect to our Bombardier aircraft, we must maintain this authority by our continued compliance with applicable statutes, rules, and regulations pertaining to the airline industry, including any new rules and regulations that may be adopted in the future. We believe that the FAA strictly scrutinizes smaller airlines like ours, which makes us susceptible to regulatory demands that can negatively impact our operations. We may not be able to continue to comply with all present and future rules and regulations. In addition, we cannot predict the costs of compliance with these regulations and the effect of compliance on our profitability, although these costs may be material. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 28 Table of Contents Item 