ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSWe are subject to numerous known and unknown risks, many of which are presented below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in evaluating us and our common stock. Any of the risk factors described below or additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Risks Relating to Our IndustriesOur refining margins have been volatile and are likely to remain volatile, which may have a material adverse effect on our earnings and cash flows.Our earnings, cash flow and profitability from our refining operations are substantially determined by the difference between the market price of refined products and the market price of crude oil, which is referred to as the crack spread, refining margin or refined products margin. Refining margins historically have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile, as a result of numerous factors beyond our control, including volatility in the prices of the various types of crude oil and other feedstocks purchased by our refineries, volatility in the costs of natural gas and electricity used by our refineries, and volatility in the prices of gasoline and other refined petroleum products sold by our refineries. Although we monitor our refinery operating margins and seek to optimize results by adjusting throughput volumes, throughput types and product slates, there are inherent limitations on our ability to offset the effects of adverse market conditions.For example, although there are differences between published prices and margins and those experienced in our operations, certain published data illustrate the volatility we encounter. The NYMEX price for domestic light sweet crude oil (NYMEX: CL), the Argus price for WTI Midland crude oil, the U.S. Gulf Coast price for unleaded gasoline (Platts U.S. Gulf Coast Pipeline 87 CBOB), the U.S. Gulf Coast price for high sulfur diesel (Platts U.S. Gulf Coast Pipeline High Sulfur No. 2 Diesel), the Gulf Coast 5-3-2 crack spread and the differential between the price of NYMEX crude oil and Intercontinental Exchange ("ICE") Brent Crude Oil (ICE: B) have fluctuated between the following daily highs and lows during the preceding three calendar years: Year EndedYear EndedYear Ended December 31, 2014December 31, 2013December 31, 2012LowHighLowHighLowHigh NYMEX crude oil (per barrel)$53.27$107.26$86.68$110.53$77.69$109.77WTI — Midland crude oil (per barrel)$49.26$101.07$79.26$110.43$71.74$106.74U.S. Gulf Coast Unleaded Gasoline (per gallon)$1.08$2.99$2.28$3.13$2.27$3.29U.S. Gulf Coast High Sulfur Diesel (per gallon)$1.22$2.98$2.54$3.23$2.53$3.26U.S. Gulf Coast crack spread (per barrel)$(3.91)$21.36$4.73$37.07$15.59$39.05WTI — Cushing/Brent crude oil differential (per barrel)$1.77$14.95$0.02$23.18$9.17$25.53Such volatility is affected by, among other things:•changes in global and local economic conditions;•domestic and foreign supply and demand for crude oil and refined products;•the level of foreign and domestic production of crude oil and refined petroleum products;•increased regulation of feedstock production activities such as hydraulic fracturing;•infrastructure limitations that restrict, or events that disrupt, the distribution of crude oil, other feedstocks and refined petroleum products;•the actual or perceived lessening of infrastructure limitations on the distribution of crude oil, other feedstocks or refined products;•investor speculation in commodities;•worldwide political conditions, particularly in significant oil producing regions such as the Middle East, Africa, the former Soviet Union, and South America;•the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to maintain oil price and production controls;•pricing and other actions taken by competitors that impact the market;•the level of crude oil, other feedstocks and refined petroleum products imported into and exported out of the United States;•excess capacity and utilization rates of refineries worldwide; 18•development and marketing of alternative and competing fuels, such as ethanol and biodiesel;•changes in fuel specifications required by environmental and other laws, particularly with respect to oxygenates and sulfur content;•local factors, including market conditions, adverse weather conditions and the level of operations of other refineries and pipelines in our markets;•accidents, interruptions in transportation, inclement weather or other events that can cause unscheduled shutdowns or otherwise adversely affect our refineries or the supply and delivery of crude oil from third parties; and•U.S. government regulations.The crude oil we purchase and the refined products we sell are commodities whose prices are mainly determined by market forces beyond our control. While an increase or decrease in the price of crude oil will often result in a corresponding increase or decrease in the wholesale price of refined products, a change in the price of one commodity does not always result in a corresponding change in the other. A substantial or prolonged increase in crude oil prices without a corresponding increase in refined product prices or a substantial or prolonged decrease in refined product prices without a corresponding decrease in crude oil prices could also have a significant negative effect on our results of operations and cash flows. This is especially true for non-transportation refined products such as asphalt, butane, coke, sulfur, propane and slurry whose prices are less likely to correlate to fluctuations in the price of crude oil, all of which we produce at our refineries. For example, our refineries have been processing more light sweet crude oils than in the past due to increased local demand for gasoline and diesel fuels combined with lower pricing and demand for residual products, as well as through capital investments made by us that have increased their capacity to process light crudes. As a result, an increase in the cost of light sweet crude oils could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Also, the price for a significant portion of the crude oil processed at our refineries is based upon the WTI benchmark for such oil rather than the Brent benchmark. While the prices for WTI and Brent historically corresponded to one another, elevated inventories of WTI-priced crude oil in the Mid-Continent region have caused WTI prices to fall significantly below Brent prices at different points in time in recent years. During the years ended December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2014, this differential ranged from highs of $23.18 and $14.95, respectively, to lows of $0.02 and $1.77, respectively. Our ability to purchase and process favorably priced crude oils has allowed us to achieve higher net income and cash flow in recent years; however, we cannot assure you that these favorable conditions will continue. A substantial or prolonged narrowing in (or inversion to) the price differential between the WTI and Brent benchmarks for any reason, including, without limitation, increased crude oil distribution capacity from the Permian Basin and actual or perceived reductions in Mid-Continent crude oil inventories, could negatively impact our earnings and cash flows. In addition, because the premium or discount we pay for a portion of the crude oil processed at our refineries is established based upon this differential during the month prior to the month in which the crude oil is processed, rapid decreases in the differential may negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows.Finally, higher refined product prices often result in negative consequences for our retail operations such as higher credit card expenses (because credit card interchange fees are typically calculated as a percentage of the transaction amount rather than a percentage of gallons sold), lower retail fuel gross margin per gallon, reduced demand for gasoline and diesel, resulting in fewer retail gallons sold and fewer retail merchandise transactions.We operate in a highly regulated industry and increased costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future laws, regulations and other requirements could significantly increase our costs of doing business, thereby adversely affecting our profitability.Our industry is subject to extensive laws, regulations, permits and other requirements including, but not limited to, those relating to the environment, safety, transportation, pipeline tariffs, employment, labor, immigration, minimum wages and overtime pay, health care and benefits, working conditions, public accessibility, retail fuel pricing, the sale of alcohol and tobacco and other requirements. These permits, laws and regulations are enforced by federal agencies including the EPA, the U.S. Department of Transportation, the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, the Federal Railroad Administration, OSHA, National Labor Relations Board, Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and FERC, and state agencies such as the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality and the ADEQ, the Railroad Commission of Texas and the Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation as well as numerous other state and federal agencies. A violation of any of these requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Various permits, licenses, registrations and other authorizations are required under these laws for the operation of our refineries, terminals, pipelines and related operations, and these permits are subject to renewal and modification that may require operational changes involving significant costs. If key permits cannot be renewed or are revoked, the ability to continue operation of the effected facilities could be threatened. 19Ongoing compliance with laws, regulations and other requirements could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under various federal, state and local environmental requirements, as the owner or operator of refineries, biodiesel plants, bulk terminals, pipelines, tank farms, rail cars, trucks and retail locations, we may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of contamination at our existing or former locations, whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of such contamination. We have incurred such liability in the past and several of our current and former locations are the subject of ongoing remediation projects. The failure to timely report and properly remediate contamination may subject us to liability to third parties and may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent our property or to borrow money using our property as collateral. Additionally, persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances also may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of these substances at sites where they are located, regardless of whether the site is owned or operated by that person. We typically arrange for the treatment or disposal of hazardous substances in our refining and other operations. Therefore, we may be liable for removal or remediation costs, as well as other related costs, including fines, penalties and damages resulting from injuries to persons, property and natural resources. Our El Dorado refinery is a minor potentially responsible party at a Superfund site for which we expect our costs to be non-material. In the future, we may incur substantial expenditures for investigation or remediation of contamination that has not been discovered at our current or former locations or locations that we may acquire.In addition, new legal requirements, new interpretations of existing legal requirements, increased legislative activity and governmental enforcement and other developments could require us to make additional unforeseen expenditures. Companies in the petroleum industry, such as us, are often the target of activist and regulatory activity regarding pricing, safety, environmental compliance, derivatives trading and other business practices which could result in price controls, fines, increased taxes or other actions affecting the conduct of our business. For example, consumer activists are lobbying various authorities to enact laws and regulations mandating the removal of tetra-ethyl lead from aviation gasoline. Other activists seek to require reductions in greenhouse gas emissions from our refineries and fuel products and the use of temperature compensation devices for fuel dispensed at our retail stores.In 2012, the EPA announced an industry-wide enforcement initiative directed at flaring operations and performance at refineries and petrochemical plants and finalized revisions to NSPS Subpart Ja that primarily affects flares and process heaters. Affected flares have three years to comply with the new standard and it is likely the standard will impact the way some flares at our refineries are designed and/or operated. We expect to complete capital projects at our refineries related to flare compliance with NSPS J by 2016. We believe our existing process heaters meet the applicable NSPS Ja requirements, and our refineries have not received any inquiries or requests for information from the EPA regarding flaring operations and are not a party to any associated enforcement action at this time. In 2014, the EPA also proposed to further regulate refinery air emissions from a variety of sources (such as cokers, flares, tanks, and other process units) through additional NSPS and National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants and to change the way emissions from startup, shutdown and malfunction operations are regulated. Compliance with the rules as proposed could require additional capital projects and changes in the way we operate some equipment but is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.In 2007, the EPA issued final Mobile Source Air Toxic II rules for gasoline formulation that required the reduction of average benzene content beginning January 1, 2011 and the reduction of maximum annual average benzene content by July 1, 2012. We currently purchase credits to comply with these content requirements for one of our refineries, but there can be no assurance that such credits will continue to be available for purchase at reasonable prices or at all. In March 2014, the EPA issued final Tier 3 gasoline rules that require a reduction in annual average gasoline sulfur content from 30 ppm to 10 ppm by January 1, 2017 for "large refineries" and retains the current maximum per-gallon sulfur content limit of 80 ppm. Under the final rules, both our refineries are considered “small refineries” and are exempt from complying with the rules' requirements until January 1, 2020. We anticipate that the Tyler refinery will meet these new limits when they become effective with only minor operational changes and that a minor capital project may be required for additional sulfur removal capacity at the El Dorado refinery, but compliance is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.Environmental and safety regulations are becoming more stringent and new environmental and safety laws and regulations are continuously being enacted or proposed. Compliance with any future legislation or regulation of our produced fuels, including renewable fuel or carbon content; GHG emissions; sulfur, benzene or other toxic content; vapor pressure; or other fuel characteristics, may result in increased capital and operating costs and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Future process safety rules could also mandate changes to the way we operate, the processes and chemicals we use and the materials from which our process units are constructed. Such regulations could have a significant negative effect on our operations and profitability. While it is impractical to predict the impact that potential regulatory and activist activity may have, such future activity may result in increased costs to operate and maintain our facilities, as well as increased capital outlays to improve our facilities. Such future activity could also adversely affect our ability to expand production, result in damaging publicity about us, or reduce demand for our products. Our need to incur costs associated with complying with any resulting new legal or regulatory requirements that are substantial and not adequately provided for, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial 20condition and results of operations. For an example of a recently concluded regulatory action with the EPA, please see "Government Regulation and Environmental Matters" under Item 1, Business, and Item 3, Legal Proceedings, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.We are subject to regulation by the U.S. Department of Transportation and various state agencies in connection with our pipeline, trucking and rail transportation operations. These regulatory authorities exercise broad powers, governing activities such as the authorization to operate hazardous materials pipelines and engage in motor carrier operations. There are additional regulations specifically relating to the transportation industry, including integrity management of pipelines, testing and specification of equipment, product handling and labeling requirements and personnel qualifications. The transportation industry is subject to possible regulatory and legislative changes that may affect the economics of our business by requiring changes in operating practices or by changing the demand for common or contract carrier services or the cost of providing truckload services. Possible changes include, among other things, increasingly stringent environmental regulations, replacement of older pipelines, changes in the hours of service regulations that govern the amount of time a driver may drive in any specific period, onboard black box recorder devices or limits on vehicle weight and size. Proposed changes to the specifications governing rail cars carrying crude oil may eliminate the most commonly used tank car or require that such cars be upgraded. These rules could limit the availability of tank cars to transport crude to our refineries and increase the cost of crude oil transported by rail. In addition to the substantial remediation costs that could be caused by leaks or spills from our pipelines, regulators could prohibit our use of affected portions of the pipeline for extended periods thereby interrupting the delivery of crude oil to, or the distribution of refined products from, our refineries.The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act") is comprehensive financial reform legislation that, among other things, establishes comprehensive federal oversight and regulation of over-the-counter derivatives and many of the entities that participate in that market. Although the Dodd-Frank Act was enacted on July 21, 2010, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC, and the SEC, along with certain other regulators, must promulgate final rules and regulations to implement many of the Dodd-Frank Act's provisions relating to over-the-counter derivatives. While some of these rules have been finalized, others have not; and, as a result, the final form and timing of the implementation of the new regulatory regime affecting commodity derivatives remains uncertain.Finally, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “ACA”) as well as other healthcare reform legislation being considered by Congress and state legislatures may have an impact on our business. As of December 31, 2014, we had 4,361 employees, of whom 840 were employed in our refining segment, 142 were employed by Delek for the benefit of our logistics segment, 3,097 were employed either full or part-time in our retail segment and 282 were employed by Holdings. Although many of the rules, reforms and regulations required to implement the ACA have not yet been adopted, and consequently the precise costs of complying with the ACA remain unknown, an increase in our employee healthcare-related costs appears likely and that increase could be extensive and changes to our healthcare cost structure could have a significant, negative impact on our business.Increased supply of and demand for alternative transportation fuels, increased fuel economy standards and increased use of alternative means of transportation could lead to a decrease in transportation fuel prices and/or a reduction in demand for petroleum-based transportation fuels. A shortage of RINs could require that our refineries operate at reduced production rates.Pursuant to the EISA, the EPA promulgated RFS-2 requiring refiners to blend "renewable fuels" such as ethanol and biodiesel, with their petroleum fuels or purchase RINs in lieu of blending. The volume of renewable fuels required by the EISA increases from 9 billion gallons in 2008 to 36 billion gallons in 2022. Annually, the EPA establishes the volume of renewable fuels that refineries must blend into their finished petroleum fuels as a percentage of their gasoline and diesel sales. RFS-2 requires displacing increasing amounts of petroleum-based transportation fuels with biofuels, beginning with approximately 7.8% in 2011, 11% in 2015 and 18% or more in 2022, depending on demand for gasoline and diesel and final biofuel volumes established by EPA each year. If we are unable to pass the costs of compliance with RFS-2 on to our customers, our profits will be adversely impacted. Moreover, the market prices for RINs have been volatile. If we have to pay a significantly higher price for RINs, if sufficient RINs are unavailable for purchase or if we are otherwise unable to meet the RFS-2 mandates, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.Meeting the RFS-2 volume requirements now requires more ethanol to be blended than can be achieved with just 10% ethanol gasoline blends (E-10). In 2011, the EPA approved E-15 for use in model year 2001 and later vehicles. However, studies show that E-15 may cause engine and fuel system damage and most vehicle manufacturers do not recommend using E-15 in vehicles manufactured prior to 2013 or 2014 other than"Flex Fuel" vehicles. In addition, most existing USTs and retail dispenser systems are not certified by Underwriters Laboratory, local fire codes or the EPA for use with gasoline blends containing more than 10% ethanol. Flex Fuel vehicles can utilize E-85 but there are relatively few such vehicles on the road, there are few E-85 retail locations and the use of E-85 results in significant reductions in fuel economy. These and other impediments may present challenges to blending the required volumes of ethanol. If adequate supplies of the required types of biofuels are unavailable in volumes sufficient 21to meet our requirement, if we are unable to physically blend the required biofuel volumes without exceeding 10% ethanol, or if RINs are not available in sufficient volumes or at economical prices, refinery production or profitability could be negatively affected.In addition, as regulatory initiatives have required an increase in the consumption of renewable transportation fuels such as ethanol and biodiesel, consumer acceptance of electric, hybrid and other alternative vehicles is increasing. Increased use of renewable fuels and alternative vehicles may result in a decrease in demand for petroleum-based transportation fuels. Increased use of renewable fuels may also result in an increase in transportation fuel supply relative to decreased demand and a corresponding decrease in margins. A significant decrease in transportation fuel margins or demand for petroleum-based transportation fuels could have an adverse impact on our financial results. As described above, RFS-2 requires replacement of increasing amounts of petroleum-based transportation fuels with biofuels through 2022. RFS-2 and widespread use of E-15 or E-85 could cause decreased crude runs and materially affect our profitability unless fuel demand rises at a comparable rate or other outlets are found for the displaced petroleum products.Finally, the EPA and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration ("NHTSA") finalized new standards in 2010 that raised the required Corporate Average Fuel Economy ("CAFE") of the nation's passenger fleet by 40% to approximately 35 mpg by 2016 and imposed the first-ever federal GHG emissions standards on cars and light trucks. In September 2011, the EPA and the Department of Transportation finalized first-time standards for fuel economy of medium and heavy duty trucks. In September 2012, the EPA and NHTSA finalized rules raising the CAFE and GHG standards for passenger vehicles beginning with 2017 model year vehicles and increasing to the equivalent of 54.5 mpg by 2025. Such increases in fuel economy standards and potential electrification of the vehicle fleet, along with mandated increases in use of renewable fuels discussed above, could result in decreasing demand for petroleum fuels which, in turn, could materially affect profitability at our refineries and convenience stores.We operate independent refineries which may not be able to withstand volatile market conditions, compete on the basis of price or obtain sufficient quantities of crude oil in times of shortage to the same extent as integrated, multinational oil companies.We compete with a broad range of companies in our refining and petroleum product marketing operations. Many of these competitors are integrated, multinational oil companies that are substantially larger than us. Because of their diversity, integration of operations, larger capitalization, larger and more complex refineries and greater resources, these companies may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions relating to crude oil and refined product pricing, to compete on the basis of price and to obtain crude oil in times of shortage.We do not engage in petroleum exploration or production and therefore do not produce any of our crude oil feedstocks. Certain of our competitors, however, obtain a portion of their feedstocks from company-owned production activities. Competitors that have their own crude oil production are at times able to offset losses from refining operations with profits from producing operations and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. If we are unable to compete effectively with these competitors, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Decreases in commodity prices may lessen our borrowing capacities, increase collateral requirements for derivative instruments or cause a write-down of inventory.The nature of our business requires us to maintain substantial quantities of crude oil, refined petroleum product and blendstock inventories. Because these inventories are commodities, we have no control over their changing market value. For example, reductions in the value of our inventories or accounts receivable as a result of lower commodity prices could result in a reduction in our borrowing base under the Tyler refinery's revolving credit facility and a reduction in the amount of financial resources available to meet the Tyler and El Dorado refineries' credit requirements. Further, if at any time our availability under the revolving credit facility falls below certain thresholds, we may be required to take steps to reduce our utilization under the credit facility. In addition, changes in commodity prices may require us to post substantial amounts of cash collateral to some or all of our hedging counterparties in order to maintain hedging positions. Finally, because our inventory is valued at the lower of cost or market value, we would record a write-down of inventory and a non-cash charge to cost of sales if the market value of the inventory were to decline to an amount below our cost.A terrorist attack on our assets, or threats of war or actual war, may hinder or prevent us from conducting our business.Terrorist attacks in the United States, as well as events occurring in response to or in connection with them, including political instability in various Middle Eastern countries, may harm our business. Energy-related assets (which could include refineries, pipelines and terminals such as ours) may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other possible targets in the United States. 22A direct attack on our assets or the assets of others used by us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any terrorist attack or continued political instability in the Middle East could have an adverse impact on energy prices, including prices for crude oil, other feedstocks and refined petroleum products, and an adverse impact on the margins from our refining and petroleum product marketing operations. Disruption or significant increases in energy prices could also result in government-imposed price controls.Legislative and regulatory measures to address climate change and GHG emissions could increase our operating costs or decrease demand for our refined products.Various legislative and regulatory measures to address climate change and GHG emissions (including carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxides) are in various phases of discussion or implementation. They include proposed and recently enacted federal regulation and state actions to develop statewide, regional or nationwide programs designed to control and reduce GHG emissions from fixed sources, such as our refineries and coal-fired power plants, as well as mobile transportation sources and fuels. Although it is not possible to predict the requirements of any GHG legislation that may be enacted, any laws or regulations that have been or may be adopted to restrict or reduce GHG emissions will likely require us to incur increased operating and capital costs and/or increased taxes on GHG emissions and petroleum fuels. If we are unable to maintain sales of our refined products at a price that reflects such increased costs, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, any increase in the prices of refined products resulting from such increased costs, GHG cap and trade programs or taxes on GHGs, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.Since the 2010 calendar year, EPA rules require that we report GHG emissions from our refinery operations and consumer use of products produced at our refineries on an annual basis. While the cost of compliance with the rule is not material, data gathered under the rule may be used in the future to support additional regulation of GHGs. In January 2011, the EPA began regulating GHG emissions from refineries and other major sources through the PSD and Federal Operating Permit (Title V) programs. While these rules do not impose any limits or controls on GHG emissions from current operations, emission increases from future projects or operational changes, such as capacity increases, may be impacted and required to meet emission limits or technological requirements such as Best Available Control Technologies. The EPA recently proposed rules to limit GHG emissions from new and existing coal and natural gas electric generating plants and has announced its intent to further regulate refinery GHG emissions through a NSPS, although the timing of the EPA's proposal for refineries is currently unclear. GHG regulation, including taxes on the GHG content of fuels, could also impact the consumption of refined products, thereby affecting our refinery operations.Our retail segment is subject to loss of market share or pressure to reduce prices in order to compete effectively with a changing group of competitors in a fragmented retail industry.The markets in which we operate our retail fuel and convenience stores are highly competitive and characterized by ease of entry and constant change in the number and type of retailers offering the products and services found in our stores. We compete with other convenience store chains, gas stations, supermarkets, drug stores, discount stores, club stores, mass merchants, fast food operations, independent owner-operators and other retail outlets. In some of our markets, our competitors have been in existence longer and have greater financial, marketing and other resources than us. In addition, independent owner-operators can generally operate stores with lower overhead costs than ours. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond better to changes in the economy and new opportunities within the industry.In recent years, several non-traditional retailers, such as supermarkets, club stores and mass merchants, have affected the convenience store industry by entering the retail fuel business and/or selling merchandise traditionally found in convenience stores. These non-traditional gasoline and/or convenience merchandise retailers have obtained a significant share of the motor fuels market, may obtain a significant share of the convenience merchandise market and their market share in each market is expected to grow. Because of their diversity, integration of operations, experienced management and greater resources, these companies may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions or levels of low or no profitability in the retail segment. In addition, these retailers may use promotional pricing or discounts, both at the pump and in the store, to encourage in-store merchandise sales. These activities by our competitors could pressure us to offer similar discounts, adversely affecting our profit margins. Additionally, the loss of market share by our retail fuel and convenience stores to these and other retailers relating to either gasoline or merchandise could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23Risks Relating to Our BusinessWe are particularly vulnerable to disruptions to our refining operations because our refining operations are concentrated in two facilities.Because all of our refining operations are concentrated in the Tyler and El Dorado refineries, significant disruptions at either facility could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Refining segment contribution margin comprised approximately 76.0%, 79.2% and 91.9% of our consolidated contribution margin for the 2014, 2013 and 2012 fiscal years, respectively. We completed a maintenance turnaround of each processing unit at our El Dorado refinery in February 2014 and expect to complete a significant maintenance turnaround at our Tyler refinery in the first quarter of 2015. Depending on which units are affected, all or a portion of a refinery's production may be halted or disrupted during a turnaround.In addition, our refineries consist of many processing units, a number of which have been in operation for many years. Even if properly maintained, equipment may require significant capital expenditures to maintain desired efficiencies. One or more of the units may require additional unscheduled down time for unanticipated maintenance or repairs that are more frequent than our scheduled turnarounds. For example, an explosion and fire at the Tyler refinery in November 2008 suspended operations for more than five months.Refinery operations may also be disrupted by external factors such as a suspension of feedstock deliveries or an interruption of electricity, natural gas, water treatment or other utilities. Other potentially disruptive factors discussed elsewhere in these risk factors include natural disasters, severe weather conditions, workplace or environmental accidents, interruptions of supply, work stoppages, losses of permits or authorizations or acts of terrorism. Disruptions to our refining operations could reduce our revenues during the period of time that our processing units are not operating.The dangers inherent in transporting, storing and processing crude oil and intermediate and finished petroleum products could cause disruptions and expose us to potentially significant costs and liabilities.Our refining and logistics operations are subject to significant hazards and risks inherent in transporting, storing and processing crude oil and intermediate and finished petroleum products. These hazards and risks include, but are not limited to, natural or weather-related disasters, fires, explosions, pipeline ruptures and spills, trucking accidents, train derailments, third-party interference, mechanical failure of equipment and other events beyond our control. The occurrence of any of these events could result in production and distribution difficulties and disruptions, personal injury or death, environmental pollution and other damage to our properties and the properties of others. For example, an explosion and fire at our Tyler refinery in November 2008 resulted in two employee deaths, third-party claims and a suspension of production that continued for more than five months. In addition, we have detected several crude oil releases from pipelines owned by our logistics segment, including, without limitation, releases at Magnolia Station in March 2013, Macedonia, Arkansas in October 2013 and Haynesville, Louisiana in April 2014. Each of these releases resulted in the need for clean-up and remediation efforts.Because of these inherent dangers, our refining and logistics operations are subject to various laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety, process and operating safety and environmental protection. Continued efforts to comply with applicable laws and regulations related to health, safety and the environment, or a finding of non-compliance with current regulations, could result in additional capital expenditures or operating expenses, as well as fines and penalties.In addition, our refineries, pipelines and terminals are located in populated areas and any release of hazardous material or catastrophic event could affect our employees and contractors as well as persons outside our property. Our pipelines, trucks and rail cars carry flammable and toxic materials on public railways and roads and across populated and/or environmentally sensitive areas and waterways that could be severely impacted in the event of a release. An accident could result in significant personal injuries and/or cause a release that results in damage to occupied areas as well as damage to natural resources. It could also affect deliveries of crude oil to our refineries resulting in a curtailment of operations. The cost to remediate such an accidental release and address other potential liabilities as well as the costs associated with any interruption of operations could be substantial. Although we maintain significant insurance coverage for such events, it may not cover all potential losses or liabilities.In the event that personal injuries or deaths result from such events, or there are natural resource damages, we would likely incur substantial legal costs and liabilities. The extent of these costs and liabilities could exceed the limits of our available insurance. As a result, any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. 24The costs, scope, timelines and benefits of our refining projects may deviate significantly from our original plans and estimates.We may experience unanticipated increases in the cost, scope and completion time for our improvement, maintenance and repair projects at our refineries. Refinery projects are generally initiated to increase the yields of higher-value products, increase our ability to process a variety of crude oils, increase production capacity, meet new regulatory requirements or maintain the safe and reliable operations of our existing assets. Equipment that we require to complete these projects may be unavailable to us at expected costs or within expected time periods. Additionally, employee or contractor labor expense may exceed our expectations. Due to these or other factors beyond our control, we may be unable to complete these projects within anticipated cost parameters and timelines. In addition, the benefits we realize from completed projects may take longer to achieve and/or be less than we anticipated. Our inability to complete and/or realize the benefits of refinery projects in a cost-efficient and timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We depend upon our logistics segment for a substantial portion of the crude oil supply and refined product distribution networks that serve our refineries.Our logistics segment consists of Delek Logistics, a publicly traded master limited partnership, and our consolidated financial statements include its consolidated financial results. As of December 31, 2014, we owned a 59.9% limited partner interest in Delek Logistics, and a 95.8% interest in Logistics GP, which owns the entire 2.0% general partner interest in Delek Logistics. Delek Logistics operates a system of crude oil and refined product pipelines, distribution terminals and tankage in Arkansas, Louisiana, Tennessee and Texas. Delek Logistics generates revenues by charging tariffs for transporting crude oil and refined products through its pipelines, by leasing pipeline capacity to third parties, by charging fees for terminalling refined products and other hydrocarbons and storing and providing other services at its terminals.Our refineries are substantially dependent upon Delek Logistics' assets and services under several long-term pipeline and terminal, tankage and throughput agreements expiring in 2017 through 2030. Delek Logistics is subject to its own operating and regulatory risks, including, but not limited to:•its reliance on significant customers, including us;•macroeconomic factors such as commodity price volatility that could affect its customers' utilization of its assets;•its reliance on us for near-term growth;•sufficiency of cash flow for required distributions;•counterparty risks such as creditworthiness and force majeure;•competition from third-party pipelines and terminals and other competitors in the transportation and marketing industries;•environmental regulations;•operational hazards and risks;•pipeline tariff regulations;•limitations on additional borrowings and other restrictions in its debt agreements; and•other financial, operational and legal risks.The occurrence of any of these risks could directly or indirectly affect Delek Logistics' financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Because Delek Logistics is our consolidated subsidiary, the occurrence of any of these risks could also affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, if any of these risks affect Delek Logistics' viability, its ability to serve our supply and distribution needs will be jeopardized.For additional information about Delek Logistics, see "Logistics Segment" under Item 1, Business, and "Terminals and Pipelines" under Item 2, Properties, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 25Interruptions or limitations in the supply and delivery of crude oil or the supply and distribution of refined products may negatively affect our refining operations and inhibit the growth of our refining operations.We rely on Delek Logistics and third-party transportation systems for the delivery of crude oil to our refineries. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2014, we relied upon the West Texas Gulf pipeline for the delivery of approximately 67.0% of the crude oil processed by our refineries. We could experience an interruption or reduction of supply and delivery, or an increased cost of receiving crude oil, if the ability of these systems to transport crude oil is disrupted because of accidents, adverse weather conditions, governmental regulation, terrorism, maintenance or failure of pipelines or other delivery systems, other third-party action or other events beyond our control. The unavailability for our use for a prolonged period of time of any system of delivery of crude oil could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. For example, on two separate occasions since we assumed control of the El Dorado refinery in April 2011, a third-party pipeline operator has temporarily suspended crude oil shipments on a pipeline system that has historically supplied significant amounts of crude oil to the refinery. In May 2011, the suspension resulted from flooding along the Mississippi River and lasted approximately five weeks. In April 2012, the suspension resulted from a pipeline rupture and lasted approximately ten months. In each instance, the El Dorado refinery operated at reduced throughput rates until the pipeline system resumed normal operations.Moreover, interruptions in delivery or limitations in delivery capacity may not allow our refining operations to draw sufficient crude oil to support current refinery production or increases in refining output. In order to maintain or materially increase refining output, existing crude delivery systems may require upgrades or supplementation, which may require substantial additional capital expenditures.In addition, the El Dorado refinery distributes most of its light product production through a third-party pipeline system. An interruption to or change in the operation of the third-party pipeline system may result in a material restriction to our distribution channels. Because demand in the El Dorado market is limited, a material restriction to the El Dorado refinery's distribution channels may cause us to reduce production and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Finally, our West Texas terminals sell refined products produced by refineries owned mostly by third parties. In 2014, these terminals received a majority of their supply of refined products from a single supplier. We could experience an interruption or termination of supply or delivery of refined products if our suppliers partially or completely ceased operations, temporarily or permanently. The ability of these refineries and our suppliers to supply refined products to us could be disrupted by anticipated events such as scheduled upgrades or maintenance, as well as events beyond their control, such as unscheduled maintenance, fires, floods, storms, explosions, power outages, accidents, acts of terrorism or other catastrophic events, labor difficulties and work stoppages, governmental or private party litigation, or legislation or regulation that adversely impacts refinery operations. In addition, any reduction in capacity of other pipelines that connect with our suppliers' pipelines or our pipelines due to testing, line repair, reduced operating pressures, or other causes could result in reduced volumes of refined product supplied to our West Texas terminals. A reduction in the volume of refined products supplied to our West Texas terminals could adversely affect our sales and earnings.General economic conditions may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.Economic slowdowns may have serious negative consequences for our business and operating results because our performance is subject to domestic economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer spending. Some of the factors affecting consumer spending include general economic conditions, unemployment, consumer debt, reductions in net worth based on declines in equity markets and residential real estate values, adverse developments in mortgage markets, taxation, energy prices, interest rates, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors. During a period of economic weakness or uncertainty, current or potential customers may travel less, reduce or defer purchases, go out of business or have insufficient funds to buy or pay for our products and services. Moreover, a financial market crisis may have a material adverse impact on financial institutions and limit access to capital and credit. This could, among other things, make it more difficult for us to obtain (or increase our cost of obtaining) capital and financing for our operations. Our access to additional capital may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all.Also, because both of our refineries are located in the Gulf Coast Region, we primarily market our refined products in a relatively limited geographic area. As a result, we are more susceptible to regional economic conditions compared to our more geographically diversified competitors, and any unforeseen events or circumstances that affect the Gulf Coast Region could also materially and adversely affect our revenues and cash flows. The primary factors include, among other things, changes in the economy, weather conditions, demographics and population, increased supply of refined products from competitors and reductions in the supply of crude oil or other feedstocks. In the event of a shift in the supply/demand balance in the Gulf Coast Region due to changes in the local economy, an increase in aggregate refining capacity or other reasons, resulting in supply 26exceeding the demand in the region, our refineries may have to deliver refined products to more customers outside of the Gulf Coast Region and thus incur considerably higher transportation costs, resulting in lower refining margins, if any.Finally, substantially all of our retail fuel and convenience stores are located in the southeastern United States and approximately 92% of them were situated in the states of Alabama, Georgia and Tennessee at December 31, 2014. As a result, our results of operations are particularly vulnerable to general economic conditions in that region. An economic downturn in the southeastern United States could cause our sales and the value of our assets to decline and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.From time to time, our cash and credit needs may exceed our internally generated cash flow and available credit, and our business could be materially and adversely affected if we are not able to obtain the necessary cash or credit from financing sources.We have significant short-term cash needs to satisfy working capital requirements such as crude oil purchases which fluctuate with the pricing and sourcing of crude oil. We rely in part on our access to credit to purchase crude oil for our refineries. If the price of crude oil increases significantly, we may not have sufficient available credit, and may not be able to sufficiently increase such availability, under our existing credit facilities or other arrangements to purchase enough crude oil to operate our refineries at desired capacities. Our failure to operate our refineries at desired capacities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also have significant long-term needs for cash, including any capital expenditures for expansion and upgrade plans, as well as projects necessary for regulatory compliance.Depending on the conditions in credit markets, it may become more difficult to obtain cash or credit from third-party sources. If we cannot generate cash flow or otherwise secure sufficient liquidity to support our short-term and long-term capital requirements, we may not be able to comply with regulatory deadlines or pursue our business strategies, in which case our operations may not perform as well as we currently expect.Our debt levels may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities.As of December 31, 2014, we had total debt of $589.7 million, including current maturities of $56.4 million. In addition to our outstanding debt, as of December 31, 2014, our letters of credit issued under our various credit facilities were $102.7 million. Our borrowing availability under our various credit facilities as of December 31, 2014 was $708.5 million.Our level of debt could have important consequences for us. For example, it could:•increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;•require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt and lease obligations, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;•place us at a disadvantage relative to our competitors that have less indebtedness or better access to capital by, for example, limiting our ability to enter into new markets, upgrade our refining assets, renovate our stores or pursue acquisitions or other business opportunities;•limit our ability to borrow additional funds in the future; and•increase interest costs for our borrowed funds and letters of credit.In addition, a substantial portion of our debt has a variable rate of interest, which increases our exposure to interest rate fluctuations, to the extent we elect not to hedge such exposures.If we are unable to meet our principal and interest obligations under our debt and lease agreements, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our obligations, seek additional equity financing or sell assets, which we may not be able to do on satisfactory terms or at all. Our default on any of those agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify.Our debt agreements contain operating and financial restrictions that might constrain our business and financing activities.The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit facilities and any future financing agreements could adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in, expand or pursue our business activities. For example, to varying degrees our credit facilities restrict our ability to: 27•declare dividends and redeem or repurchase capital stock;•prepay, redeem or repurchase debt;•make loans and investments, issue guaranties and pledge assets;•incur additional indebtedness or amend our debt and other material agreements;•make capital expenditures;•engage in mergers, acquisitions and asset sales; and•enter into certain intercompany arrangements or make certain intercompany payments, which in some instances could restrict our ability to use the assets, cash flows or earnings of one operating segment to support another operating segment or Holdings.Other restrictive covenants require that we meet certain financial covenants, including leverage coverage, fixed charge coverage and net worth tests as described in the applicable credit agreements. In addition, the covenant requirements of our various credit agreements require us to make many subjective determinations pertaining to our compliance thereto and exercise good faith judgment in determining our compliance.Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our debt instruments may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants and restrictions may be impaired. If we breach any of the restrictions or covenants in our debt agreements, a significant portion of our indebtedness may become immediately due and payable, and our lenders' commitments to make further loans to us may terminate. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these immediate payments. In addition, our obligations under our credit facilities are secured by substantially all of our assets. If we are unable to timely repay our indebtedness under our credit facilities, the lenders could seek to foreclose on the assets or we may be required to contribute additional capital to our subsidiaries. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Changes in our credit profile could affect our relationships with our suppliers, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to operate our refineries at full capacity.Changes in our credit profile could affect the way crude oil, feedstock and refined product suppliers view our ability to make payments. As a result, suppliers could shorten the payment terms of their invoices with us or require us to provide significant collateral to them that we do not currently provide. Due to the large dollar amounts and volume of our crude oil and other petroleum product purchases, as well as the historical volatility of crude oil pricing, any imposition by our suppliers of more burdensome payment terms or collateral requirements may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to make payments to our suppliers. This, in turn, could cause us to be unable to operate our refineries at desired capacities. A failure to operate our refineries at desired capacities could adversely affect our profitability and cash flows.The termination or expiration of our Amended and Restated Master Supply and Offtake Agreement could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity.On December 23, 2013, we entered into the S&O Agreement with J. Aron, which became effective on April 30, 2014 and expires on April 30, 2017. Pursuant to the agreement, J. Aron purchases a substantial portion of the crude oil and refined products in Lion Oil’s inventory at market prices. Upon any termination of the agreement, including at expiration or in connection with a force majeure or default, the parties are required to negotiate with third parties for the assignment to us of certain contracts, commitments and arrangements including procurement contracts, commitments for the sale of product, and pipeline, terminalling, storage and shipping arrangements. Additionally, upon any termination, we will be required to repurchase or refinance the consigned crude oil and refined products from J. Aron at then market prices, which may have a material impact on our working capital needs. At December 31, 2014, we had approximately 3.2 million barrels of inventory consigned to J. Aron, and we had recorded a liability associated with this consigned inventory of $200.9 million.Our insurance policies do not cover all losses, costs or liabilities that we may experience, and insurance companies that currently insure companies in the energy industry may cease to do so or substantially increase premiums.We carry property, business interruption, pollution and casualty insurance, but we do not maintain insurance coverage against all potential losses, costs or liabilities. We could suffer losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. In addition, because our business interruption policy does not cover losses during the first 21 to 60 days of the interruption, a significant part or all of a business interruption loss could be uninsured. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 28The energy industry is highly capital intensive, and the entire or partial loss of individual facilities or multiple facilities can result in significant costs to both industry companies, such as us, and their insurance carriers. In recent years, several large energy industry claims have resulted in significant increases in the level of premium costs and deductible periods for participants in the energy industry. For example, hurricanes have caused significant damage to several petroleum refineries along the Gulf Coast, in addition to numerous oil and gas production facilities and pipelines in that region. As a result of large energy industry claims, insurance companies that have historically participated in underwriting energy-related facilities may discontinue that practice, may reduce the insurance capacity they are willing to offer or demand significantly higher premiums or deductible periods to cover these facilities. If significant changes in the number or financial solvency of insurance underwriters for the energy industry occur, or if other adverse conditions over which we have no control prevail in the insurance market, we may be unable to obtain and maintain adequate insurance at reasonable cost.In addition, we cannot assure you that our insurers will renew our insurance coverage on acceptable terms, if at all, or that we will be able to arrange for adequate alternative coverage in the event of non-renewal. The unavailability of full insurance coverage to cover events in which we suffer significant losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We may not be able to successfully execute our strategy of growth through acquisitions.A significant part of our growth strategy is to acquire assets such as refineries, pipelines, terminals, and retail fuel and convenience stores that complement our existing assets and/or broaden our geographic presence. If attractive opportunities arise, we may also acquire assets in new lines of business that are complementary to our existing businesses. From our inception in 2001 through December 2014, we acquired the Tyler and El Dorado refineries, acquired approximately 500 retail fuel and convenience stores and developed our logistics segment through the acquisition of transportation and marketing assets. We expect to continue to acquire assets that complement our existing assets and/or broaden our geographic presence as a major element of our growth strategy, however:•we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or acquire additional assets on favorable terms;•we usually compete with others to acquire assets, which competition may increase, and, any level of competition could result in decreased availability or increased prices for acquisition candidates;•we may experience difficulty in anticipating the timing and availability of acquisition candidates;•we may not be able to obtain the necessary financing, on favorable terms or at all, to finance any of our potential acquisitions;•as a public company, we are subject to reporting obligations, internal controls and other accounting requirements with respect to any business we acquire, which may prevent or negatively affect the valuation of some acquisitions we might otherwise deem favorable or increase our acquisition costs. For example, prior to April 2011, the El Dorado refinery was controlled by a privately held entity that was not required to comply with public financial reporting obligations such as the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Now that we control the El Dorado refinery, we must ensure that it maintains appropriate disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting.The occurrence of any of these factors could adversely affect our growth strategy.Acquisitions involve risks that could cause our actual growth or operating results to differ adversely compared with our expectations.Due to our emphasis on growth through acquisitions, we are particularly susceptible to transactional risks that could cause our actual growth or operating results to differ adversely compared with our expectations. For example:•during the acquisition process, we may fail or be unable to discover some of the liabilities of companies or businesses that we acquire;•we may assume contracts or other obligations in connection with particular acquisitions on terms that are less favorable or desirable than the terms that we would expect to obtain if we negotiated the contracts or other obligations directly;•we may fail to successfully integrate or manage acquired assets;•acquired assets may not perform as we expect or we may not be able to obtain the cost savings and financial improvements we anticipate;•acquisitions may require us to incur additional debt or issue additional equity;•acquired assets may suffer a diminishment in fair value as a result of which we may need to record a write-down or impairment (such as the $60.0 million impairment of our minority investment in Lion Oil in the fourth quarter of 2010); 29•we may fail to grow our existing systems, financial controls, information systems, management resources and human resources in a manner that effectively supports our growth;•to the extent that we acquire assets in new lines of business, we may become subject to additional regulatory requirements and additional risks that are characteristic or typical of these lines of business; and•to the extent that we acquire equity interests in entities that control assets (rather than acquiring the assets directly), we may become subject to liabilities that predate our ownership and control of the assets. For example, in 2011, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Lion Oil, the Arkansas corporation that owns and operates the El Dorado refinery. Because we acquired the stock of Lion Oil (rather than acquiring the refinery assets directly), we may be subject to Lion Oil's historic liabilities.The occurrence of any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.We may incur significant costs and liabilities with respect to investigation and remediation of environmental conditions at our refineries.Prior to our purchase of our refineries, the previous owners had been engaged for many years in the investigation and remediation of hydrocarbons and other materials which contaminated soil and groundwater at the purchased facilities. Upon purchase of the facilities, we became responsible and liable for certain costs associated with the continued investigation and remediation of known and unknown impacted areas at the refineries. In the future, it may be necessary to conduct further assessments and remediation efforts at our refinery, pipeline, tank, terminal and store locations. In addition, we have identified and self-reported certain other environmental matters subsequent to our purchase of the refineries.Based upon environmental evaluations performed internally and by third parties subsequent to the purchase of our refineries and other properties, we recorded environmental liabilities and accrued amounts we believe are sufficient to complete remediation. We expect remediation of soil, sediment and groundwater at some properties to continue for the foreseeable future. The need to make future expenditures for these purposes that exceed the amounts we estimated and accrued for could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.In the future, we may incur substantial expenditures for investigation or remediation of contamination that has not been discovered at our current or former locations or locations that we may acquire. In addition, new legal requirements, new interpretations of existing legal requirements, increased legislative activity and governmental enforcement and other developments could require us to make additional unforeseen expenditures. We anticipate that compliance with environmental, health and safety regulations will require us to spend approximately $32.6 million in capital costs in 2015 and approximately $66.0 million during the next five years.We could incur substantial costs or disruptions in our business if we cannot obtain or maintain necessary permits and authorizations or otherwise comply with health, safety, environmental and other laws and regulations.Our operations require numerous permits and authorizations under various laws and regulations. These authorizations and permits are subject to revocation, renewal or modification and can require operational changes to limit impacts or potential impacts on the environment and/or health and safety. A violation of authorization or permit conditions or other legal or regulatory requirements could result in substantial fines, criminal sanctions, permit revocations, injunctions, and/or facility shutdowns. In addition, major modifications of our operations could require modifications to our existing permits or upgrades to our existing pollution control equipment. Any or all of these matters could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows.Our Tyler refinery currently has no ability to distribute refined petroleum products outside the northeast Texas market.In recent years, we have expanded our refined product distribution capacities in northeast Texas with our acquisition of refined product terminals located in Big Sandy, Texas and Mount Pleasant, Texas. However, unlike most other refineries, the Tyler refinery currently has no ability to distribute refined products outside the northeast Texas market. For the year ended December 31, 2014, nearly all of the refinery sales volume in Tyler was completed through a rack system located at the Tyler refinery, which is owned by our logistics segment. The Tyler refinery's limited distribution capabilities may continue to limit its ability to increase its production, attract new customers for its refined petroleum products or increase sales of the Tyler refinery products. In addition, if demand for the Tyler refinery's products diminishes within the northeast Texas market, its production may be reduced and our financial results would be adversely affected unless additional distribution capabilities are identified. 30An increase in competition and/or reduction in demand in the markets in which we purchase feedstocks and sell our refined products could increase our costs and/or lower prices and adversely affect our sales and profitability.Our Tyler refinery is currently the only supplier of a full range of refined petroleum products within a radius of approximately 100 miles of its location and there are no competitive fuel loading terminals within approximately 90 miles of our San Angelo terminal. If competitors commence operations within these niche markets, we could lose our niche market advantage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our El Dorado refinery's profitability may be impacted by increased competition from refineries that operate in different regions that have access to Canadian and domestic crudes, which, from time to time may be discounted from crudes available to our El Dorado refinery. In addition, third party pipelines are currently in development that are expected to increase the supply of third party refined products in Little Rock, Arkansas.In addition, the maintenance or replacement of our existing customers depends on a number of factors outside of our control, including increased competition from other suppliers and demand for refined products in the markets we serve. The market for distribution of wholesale motor fuel is highly competitive and fragmented. Some of our competitors have significantly greater resources and name recognition than us. The loss of major customers, or a reduction in amounts purchased by major customers, could have an adverse effect on us to the extent that we are not able to correspondingly increase sales to other purchasers.Finally, our ability to purchase and process favorably priced crude oils has allowed us to achieve higher net income and cash flow in recent years. For example, we currently enjoy access to mid-continent and southern Arkansas crude oils that are favorably priced due, in part, to the limited markets for them. If the price of these crude oils increases as a result of increased competition for them, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Compliance with and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our performance.We are subject to extensive tax liabilities, including federal and state income taxes and transactional taxes such as excise, sales/use, payroll, franchise, withholding, and ad valorem taxes. New tax laws and regulations and changes in existing tax laws and regulations are continuously being enacted or proposed that could result in increased expenditures for tax liabilities in the future. Certain of these liabilities are subject to periodic audits by the respective taxing authority which could increase or otherwise alter our tax liabilities. Subsequent changes to our tax liabilities as a result of these audits may also subject us to interest and penalties and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.For example, the tax treatment of our logistics segment depends on its status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If a change in law, our failure to comply with existing law or other factors were to cause our logistics segment to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, it would become subject to entity-level taxation. As a result, our logistics segment would pay federal income tax on all of its taxable income at regular corporate income tax rates (subject to corporate alternative minimum tax), our logistics segment would likely pay additional state and local income taxes at varying rates, and distributions to unitholders, including us, would be generally treated as taxable dividends from a corporation. In such case, the logistics segment would likely experience a material reduction in its anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to its unitholders and we would likely experience a substantial reduction in its value.In addition, recent regulatory proposals in the U.S. could effectively limit, or even eliminate, use of the LIFO inventory method for financial and income tax purposes. Although the final outcome of these proposals cannot be ascertained at this time, the ultimate impact to us of the transition from LIFO to another inventory method could be material. We use the LIFO method with respect to our inventories at the Tyler refinery. A change to the FIFO inventory method could result in a material increase/decrease in the tax basis of our inventory at the Tyler refinery. This increase/decrease in inventory value could impact our taxable income in the year of change or ratably over several tax years.Our commodity and interest rate derivative activity may limit potential gains, increase potential losses, result in earnings volatility and involve other risks.At times, we enter into commodity derivative contracts to manage our price exposure to our inventory positions, future purchases of crude oil and ethanol, future sales of refined products or to secure margins on future production. We also use interest rate swap and cap agreements to manage our market exposure to changes in interest rates related to our floating rate borrowings. We expect to continue to enter into these types of transactions from time to time and have increased our use of these risk management activities in recent years. 31While these transactions are intended to limit our exposure to the adverse effects of fluctuations in crude oil prices, refined products prices and interest rates, they may also limit our ability to benefit from favorable changes in market conditions and may subject us to period-by-period earnings volatility in the instances where we do not seek hedge accounting for these transactions. Further, because the volume of derivative activity is less than our actual use of crude oil or production of refined products, our risk management activity does not completely limit our exposure to market volatility. Also, in connection with such derivative transactions, we may be required to make cash payments to maintain margin accounts and to settle the contracts at their value upon termination. Finally, this activity exposes us to potential risk of counterparties to our derivative contracts failing to perform under the contracts. As a result, the effectiveness of our risk management policies could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and cash flows. For additional information about the nature and volume of these transactions, see Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.We are exposed to certain counterparty risks which may adversely impact our results of operations.We evaluate the creditworthiness of each of our various counterparties, but we may not always be able to fully anticipate or detect deterioration in a counterparty's creditworthiness and overall financial condition. The deterioration of creditworthiness or overall financial condition of a material counterparty (or counterparties) could expose us to an increased risk of nonpayment or other default under our contracts with them. If a material counterparty (or counterparties) defaults on their obligations to us, this could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. For example, under the terms of the S&O Agreement with J. Aron, we granted J. Aron the exclusive right to store and withdraw crude and certain products in the tanks associated with the El Dorado refinery. The S&O Agreement also provides that the ownership of substantially all crude oil and certain other refined products in the tanks associated with the refinery will be retained by J. Aron, and that J. Aron will purchase substantially all of the specified refined products processed at the El Dorado refinery. An adverse change in J. Aron's business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition could adversely affect its ability to timely discharge its obligations to us, which would consequently have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or liquidity.Adverse weather conditions or other unforeseen developments could damage our facilities, reduce customer traffic and impair our ability to produce and deliver refined petroleum products or receive supplies for our retail fuel and convenience stores.The regions in which we operate are susceptible to severe storms, including hurricanes, thunderstorms, tornadoes, floods, extended periods of rain, ice storms and snow, all of which we have experienced in the past few years. Inclement weather conditions could damage our facilities, interrupt production, adversely impact consumer behavior, travel and retail fuel and convenience store traffic patterns or interrupt or impede our ability to operate our locations. If such conditions prevail near our refineries, they could interrupt or undermine our ability to produce and transport products from our refineries and receive and distribute products at our terminals. Regional occurrences, such as energy shortages or increases in energy prices, fires and other natural disasters, could also hurt our business. The occurrence of any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our operating results are seasonal and generally lower in the first and fourth quarters of the year for our refining and logistics segments and in the first quarter of the year for our retail segment. We depend on favorable weather conditions in the spring and summer months.Demand for gasoline, convenience merchandise and asphalt products is generally higher during the summer months than during the winter months due to seasonal increases in motor vehicle traffic and road and home construction. Varying vapor pressure requirements between the summer and winter months also tighten summer gasoline supply. As a result, the operating results of our refining segment and logistics segment are generally lower for the first and fourth quarters of each year. Seasonal fluctuations in traffic also affect sales of motor fuels and merchandise in our retail fuel and convenience stores. As a result, the operating results of our retail segment are generally lower for the first quarter of the year.Weather conditions in our operating area also have a significant effect on our operating results in our retail segment. Customers are more likely to purchase more gasoline and higher profit margin items such as fast foods, fountain drinks and other beverages during the spring and summer months. Unfavorable weather conditions during these months and a resulting lack of the expected seasonal upswings in traffic and sales could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 32A substantial portion of the workforce at our refineries is unionized, and we may face labor disruptions that would interfere with our operations.As of December 31, 2014, we employed 301 and 501 people in our Tyler and El Dorado operations, respectively. From among these employees, 161 operations and maintenance hourly employees and 40 truck drivers at the Tyler refinery were represented by the United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union and its Local 202 at year end. The Tyler operations and maintenance hourly employees are currently covered by a collective bargaining agreement that expired January 31, 2015. National-level negotiations are currently ongoing between the International Union and a third party. While these negotiations are in process, we are operating under rolling, 24-hour extensions to this agreement. The Tyler truck drivers are currently covered by a collective bargaining agreement that expires March 1, 2015. Renewal negotiations for this agreement are in process but not yet finalized. In the event that the union strikes, Delek has a plan in place for continued operation of the Tyler refinery utilizing company employees and/or third party contractors. We do not anticipate these negotiations will prevent the continuous operation of the Tyler refinery. As of December 31, 2014, 167 operations and maintenance hourly employees at the El Dorado refinery were represented by the International Union of Operating Engineers and its Local 381. These employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement which expires on August 1, 2017. Although these collective bargaining agreements contain provisions to discourage strikes or work stoppages, we cannot assure you that strikes or work stoppages will not occur. A strike or work stoppage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our business.We rely on information technology systems across our operations, including management of our supply chain, point of sale processing at our retail sites, and various other processes and transactions. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential customer information, such as payment card and personal credit information.In addition, the systems currently used for certain transmission and approval of payment card transactions, and the technology utilized in payment cards themselves, may put certain payment card data at risk. These systems are determined and controlled by the PCI, and not by us. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and constantly changing requirements. We have taken the necessary steps to assure the PCI compliance and Data Security Standards are being employed at all our locations. However, compliance with these requirements may result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes and the development of new administrative processes.In recent years, several retailers, including us, have experienced data breaches resulting in the exposure of sensitive customer data, including payment card information. For example, our retail segment experienced a security breach in 2013 that may have compromised the payment card information of certain retail customers. Any compromise or breach of our information and payment technology systems could cause interruptions in our operations, damage our reputation, reduce our customers' willingness to visit our sites and conduct business with us, or expose us to litigation from customers or sanctions from the PCI. In addition, a compromise of our internal data network at any of our refining or terminal locations may have disruptive impacts similar to that of our retail operations. These disruptions could range from inconvenience in accessing business information to a disruption in our refining and/or logistics operations. Cost increases may be incurred in this area to combat the continued escalation of cyber attacks and/or disruptive criminal activity.Also, we utilize information technology systems and controls that monitor the movement of petroleum products through our pipelines and terminals. An undetected failure of these systems could result in environmental damage, operational disruptions, regulatory enforcement or private litigation. Further, the failure of any of our systems to operate effectively, or problems we may experience with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, could significantly harm our business and operations and cause us to incur significant costs to remediate such problems. 33If we lose any of our key personnel, our ability to manage our business and continue our growth could be negatively impacted.Our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and key technical personnel. We do not currently maintain key person life insurance policies for any of our senior management team. The loss or unavailability to us of any member of our senior management team or a key technical employee could significantly harm us. We face competition for these professionals from our competitors, our customers and other companies operating in our industry. To the extent that the services of members of our senior management team and key technical personnel would be unavailable to us for any reason, we would be required to hire other personnel to manage and operate our company and to develop our products and technology. We cannot assure you that we would be able to locate or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms or at all.We may seek to diversify our retail fuel and convenience store operations by entering new geographic areas, which may present operational and competitive challenges.Since our inception, we have grown our retail segment primarily by acquiring stores in the southeastern United States. In the future, we may seek to grow by selectively operating stores in geographic areas other than those in which we currently operate, or in which we currently have a relatively small number of stores. This growth strategy would present numerous operational and competitive challenges to our senior management and employees and would place significant pressure on our operating systems. In addition, we cannot assure you that consumers located in the regions in which we may expand our operations would be as receptive to our stores as consumers in our existing markets. The success of any such growth plans will depend in part upon our ability to:•select, and compete successfully in, new markets;•obtain suitable sites at acceptable costs;•identify and contract with financially stable developers;•realize an acceptable return on the capital invested in new facilities;•hire, train, and retain qualified personnel;•integrate new retail fuel and convenience stores into our existing distribution, inventory control, and information systems;•expand relationships with our suppliers or develop relationships with new suppliers; and•secure adequate financing, to the extent required.We cannot assure you that we will achieve our development goals, manage our growth effectively, or operate our existing and new retail fuel and convenience stores profitability. The failure to achieve any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our retail segment is dependent on fuel sales which makes us susceptible to increases in the cost of gasoline and interruptions in fuel supply.Net fuel sales of our retail segment represented approximately 78.5%, 79.6% and 79.9% of total net sales of our retail segment for the fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Our dependence on fuel sales makes us susceptible to increases in the cost of gasoline and diesel fuel and fuel profit margins have a significant impact on our earnings. The volume of fuel sold by us and our fuel profit margins are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including the supply and demand for fuel, volatility in the wholesale fuel market and the pricing policies of competitors in local markets. Although we can rapidly adjust our pump prices to reflect higher fuel costs, a material increase in the price of fuel could adversely affect demand. A material, sudden increase in the cost of fuel that causes our fuel sales to decline could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our dependence on fuel sales also makes us susceptible to interruptions in fuel supply. At December 31, 2014, fuel from the Gulf Coast transported to us through the Colonial and Plantation pipelines was the primary source of fuel supply for approximately 93.7% of our retail fuel and convenience stores. To mitigate the risks of cost volatility, we typically have no more than a five-day supply of fuel at each of our stores and our fuel contracts do not guarantee an uninterrupted, unlimited supply in the event of a shortage. Gasoline sales generate customer traffic to our retail fuel and convenience stores and any decrease in gasoline sales, whether due to shortage or otherwise, could adversely affect our merchandise sales. A serious interruption in the supply of gasoline to our retail fuel and convenience stores could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 34If there is negative publicity concerning our brand names or the brand names of our suppliers, fuel and merchandise sales in our retail segment may suffer.We offer food products in our stores that are marketed under our brand names and certain nationally recognized brands such as Subway®, Krispy Krunchy Chicken® and Quizno's®. Negative publicity, regardless of whether the concerns are valid, concerning food or beverage quality, food or beverage safety or other health concerns, facilities, employee relations or other matters may materially and adversely affect demand for food and beverages offered in our stores and could result in a decrease in customer traffic to our stores. Additionally, we may be the subject of complaints or litigation arising from food or beverage-related illness or injury in general which could have a negative impact on our business. Health concerns, poor food or beverage quality or operating issues stemming from one store or a limited number of stores can materially and adversely affect the operating results of some or all of our stores and harm our proprietary brands.In addition, we are an independent retailer of fuel that markets some of our products under major oil company brands including BP® and Marathon®. Fuel sold under these major brands represented approximately 14.3% of total fuel sales volume for our retail segment during the year ended December 31, 2014. Negative publicity concerning any of these major oil companies could adversely affect fuel and merchandise sales volumes in our retail segment. For example, the Deepwater Horizon accident in the Gulf of Mexico in April 2010 resulted in consumer boycotts of independent retailers of BP® branded fuels. If negative publicity pertaining to the major brands adversely affects our sales volumes, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Wholesale cost increases, vendor pricing programs and tax increases applicable to tobacco products, as well as campaigns to discourage their use, could adversely impact our results of operations in our retail segment.Sales of tobacco products accounted for approximately 8.8%, 8.2% and 7.8% of net sales in our retail segment during the fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Our tobacco gross profit accounted for approximately 11.9%, 12.2% and 14.8% of total gross profit in our retail segment during the same periods. Increases in the retail price of tobacco products as a result of increased taxes or wholesale costs could materially impact our cigarette sales volume and/or revenues, merchandise gross profit and overall customer traffic. In addition, national and local campaigns to discourage the use of tobacco products may have an adverse effect on demand for these products. A reduction in cigarette sales volume and/or revenues, merchandise gross profit from tobacco products or overall customer demand for tobacco products could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations of our retail segment.Major cigarette manufacturers currently offer substantial rebates to us; however, there can be no assurance that such rebate programs will continue. We include these rebates as a component of our gross margin from sales of cigarettes. In the event these rebates are decreased or eliminated, our wholesale cigarette costs will increase. For example, certain major cigarette manufacturers have offered rebate programs that provide rebates only if we follow the manufacturer's retail pricing guidelines. If we do not receive the rebates because we do not participate in the program or if the rebates we receive by participating in the program do not offset or surpass the revenue lost as a result of complying with the manufacturer's pricing guidelines, our cigarette gross margin will be adversely impacted. In general, we attempt to pass wholesale price increases on to our customers. However, due to competitive pressures in our markets, we may not be able to do so. In addition, reduced retail display allowances on cigarettes offered by cigarette manufacturers negatively impact gross margins. These factors could materially impact our retail price of cigarettes, cigarette sales volume and/or revenues, merchandise gross profit and overall customer traffic, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 35If we are, or become, a U.S. real property holding corporation, special tax rules may apply to a sale, exchange or other disposition of common stock and non-U.S. holders may be less inclined to invest in our stock as they may be subject to U.S. federal income tax in certain situations.A non-U.S. holder of our common stock may be subject to U.S. federal income tax with respect to gain recognized on the sale, exchange or other disposition of our common stock if we are, or were, a "U.S. real property holding corporation" ("USRPHC") at any time during the shorter of the five-year period ending on the date of the sale or other disposition and the period such non-U.S. holder held our common stock (the shorter period referred to as the "lookback period"). In general, we would be a USRPHC if the fair market value of our "U.S. real property interests," as such term is defined for U.S. federal income tax purposes, equals or exceeds 50% of the sum of the fair market value of our worldwide real property interests and our other assets used or held for use in a trade or business. The test for determining USRPHC status is applied on certain specific determination dates and is dependent upon a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control (including, for example, fluctuations in the value of our assets). If we are or become a USRPHC, so long as our common stock is regularly traded on an established securities market such as the NYSE, only a non-U.S. holder who, actually or constructively, holds or held during the lookback period more than five percent of our common stock will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the disposition of our common stock.Risks Related to Our Common StockThe price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment.The market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including:•our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry;•inaccuracies in and changes to our previously published quarterly or annual earnings;•changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;•general economic and stock market conditions;•the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock or the cessation of such coverage;•changes in financial estimates by securities analysts and the frequency and accuracy of such reports;•future sales of our common stock;•announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions;•sales of common stock by us, our senior officers or our affiliates; and•the other factors described in these "Risk Factors."In recent years, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. The changes often occur without any apparent regard to the operating performance of these companies. The price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our stock price. In addition, recent distress in the credit and financial markets resulted in extreme volatility in trading prices of securities and diminished liquidity, and we cannot assure you that our liquidity will not be affected by changes in the financial markets and the global economy.In the past, some companies that have experienced volatile market prices for their securities have been subject to securities class action suits filed against them. The filing of a lawsuit against us, regardless of the outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as it could result in substantial legal costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources. 36The risk of stockholder activism has increased because no stockholder controls a majority of our common stock.Prior to March 20, 2013, Delek Group Ltd. ("Delek Group") controlled a majority of our common stock but, by December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2014, it controlled only 30.5% and 7.8%, respectively. Our stockholders may from time to time engage in proxy solicitations, advance stockholder proposals or otherwise attempt to effect changes or acquire control over us, and Delek Group's divestitures have increased this risk. Campaigns by stockholders to effect changes at publicly traded companies are sometimes led by investors seeking to increase short-term stockholder value through actions such as financial restructuring, increased debt, special dividends, stock repurchases or sales of assets or the entire company. Responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist stockholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupting our operations and divert the attention of our Board of Directors and senior management from the pursuit of business strategies. As a result, stockholder campaigns could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Future sales of shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock.The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of the introduction of a large number of shares of our common stock into the market or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate.Our stockholders may suffer substantial dilution.We may sell securities in the public or private equity markets if and when conditions are favorable, even if we do not have an immediate need for capital. In addition, if we have an immediate need for capital, we may sell securities in the public or private equity markets even when conditions are not otherwise favorable. Our stockholders will suffer dilution if we issue currently unissued shares of our stock in the future. Our stockholders will also suffer dilution if stock, restricted stock units, restricted stock, stock options, stock appreciation rights, warrants or other equity awards, whether currently outstanding or subsequently granted, are exercised.We depend upon our subsidiaries for cash to meet our obligations and pay any dividends.We are a holding company. Our subsidiaries conduct substantially all of our operations and own substantially all of our assets. Consequently, our cash flow and our ability to meet our obligations or pay dividends to our stockholders depend upon the cash flow of our subsidiaries and the payment of funds by our subsidiaries to us in the form of dividends, tax sharing payments or otherwise. Our subsidiaries' ability to make any payments will depend on many factors, including their earnings, cash flows, the terms of their indebtedness, tax considerations and legal restrictions.We may be unable to pay future regular and/or special dividends in the anticipated amounts and frequency set forth herein.We will only be able to pay regular and/or special dividends from our available cash on hand and funds received from our subsidiaries. Our ability to receive dividends and other cash payments from our subsidiaries is restricted under the terms of their respective credit facilities. For example, under the terms of their credit facilities, our subsidiaries are subject to certain customary covenants that limit their ability to, subject to certain exceptions as defined in their respective credit agreements, remit cash to, distribute assets to, or make investments in, us as the parent company. Specifically, these covenants limit the payment, in the form of cash or other assets, of dividends or other cash payments to us. The declaration of future regular and/or special dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon many factors, including our results of operations, financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, restrictions in our debt agreements and legal requirements. Although we currently intend to pay regular quarterly cash dividends on our common stock at an annual rate of $0.60 per share, we cannot provide any assurances that any regular and/or special dividends will be paid in the anticipated amounts and frequency set forth herein, if at all.Provisions of Delaware law and our organizational documents may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our stockholders may consider in their best interests, which could negatively affect our stock price.Provisions of Delaware law, our Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and our Second Amended and Restated Bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company or deterring tender offers for our common stock that other stockholders may consider in their best interests. For example, our Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that:•stockholder actions may only be taken at annual or special meetings of stockholders;•members of our Board of Directors can be removed with or without cause by a supermajority vote of stockholders; 37•the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is, with certain exceptions, the exclusive forum for certain legal actions;•our bylaws, as may be in effect from time to time, can be amended only by a supermajority vote of stockholders; and•certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation, as may be in effect from time to time, can be amended only by a supermajority vote of stockholders.In addition, the certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more different series with terms to be fixed by our Board of Directors. Stockholder approval is not necessary to issue preferred stock in this manner. Issuance of these shares of preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult and more expensive for a person or group to acquire control of us and could effectively be used as an anti-takeover device. On the date of this report, no shares of our preferred stock are outstanding.Finally, our Second Amended and Restated Bylaws provide for an advance notice procedure for stockholders to nominate director candidates for election or to bring business before an annual meeting of stockholders and require that special meetings of stockholders be called only by our chairman of the Board of Directors, president or secretary after written request of a majority of our Board of Directors. The advance notice provision requires disclosure of derivative positions, hedging transactions, short interests, rights to dividends and other similar positions of any stockholder proposing a director nomination, in order to promote full disclosure of such stockholder's economic interest in us.The anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and provisions in our organizational documents may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future.We are exposed to risks relating to evaluations of internal controls required by Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley.To comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, we are required to evaluate our internal controls systems to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to audit, our internal controls over financial reporting. During this process, we may identify control deficiencies of varying degrees of severity under applicable SEC and Public Company Accounting Oversight Board rules and regulations that remain unremediated. As a public company, we are required to report, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute a "material weakness" or changes in internal controls that, or are reasonably likely to, materially affect internal controls over financial reporting. A "material weakness" is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the Company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.If we fail to comply with the requirements of Section 404, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities such as the SEC or the NYSE. Additionally, failure to comply with Section 404 or the report by us of a material weakness may cause investors to lose confidence in our financial statements and our stock price may be adversely affected. If we fail to remedy any material weakness, our financial statements may be inaccurate, we may face restricted access to the capital markets, and our stock price may decline.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone. 