Item 1A. Risk FactorsIn addition to the other information set forth in this annual report on Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the risk factors discussed below and in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission that could materially affect our business, financial condition, cash flows or future results. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as general economic conditions and geopolitical events. Further, additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.We might not be successful in executing our strategy of focusing on the Global Enterprise & Education segment and on more serious learners, and our company reorganization and realignment might not produce the desired results. 8Table of ContentsWe recently announced a strategic reorganization and realignment of our business to accelerate and prioritize our focus on satisfying the needs of more serious corporate and K-12 learners, and on those who wish to speak and read English. If we do not successfully execute our accelerated strategy, our revenues and profitability could decline. In connection with the implementation of our revised strategy, we have announced a company realignment plan that includes changes in our organizational structure and non-voluntary workforce reductions. Significant risks associated with these actions that may impair our ability to achieve anticipated cost reductions or that may otherwise harm our business include delays in implementation of anticipated workforce reductions in highly regulated locations outside of the United States, decreases in employee morale and the failure to meet our business goals due to the loss of employees. In addition, our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from these actions within the expected time frame is subject to many estimates and assumptions, which are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. If these estimates and assumptions are incorrect, if we experience delays, or if other unforeseen events occur, our business and financial results could be adversely affected.Our actual operating results may differ significantly from our guidance.Historically, our practice has been to release guidance in our quarterly earnings releases, quarterly earnings conference calls, or otherwise, regarding our future performance that represents our management's estimates as of the date of release. This guidance, which includes forward-looking statements, is based on projections prepared by our management. These projections are not prepared with a view toward compliance with published guidelines of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and neither our registered public accountants nor any other independent expert or outside party confirms or examines the projections and, accordingly, no such person expresses any opinion or any other form of assurance with respect thereto.Projections are based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control and are based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which will change. We generally state possible outcomes as high and low ranges, which are intended to provide a sensitivity analysis as variables are changed but actual results could fall outside of the suggested ranges. The principal reason that we release guidance is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by any such persons.Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions in the guidance furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, our guidance is only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results will vary from our guidance and the variations may be material. In light of the foregoing, investors are urged not to rely upon, or otherwise consider, our guidance in making an investment decision in respect of our common stock.Any failure to successfully implement our strategy or the occurrence of any of the events or circumstances set forth in these "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K could result in the actual operating results being different from our guidance, and such differences may be adverse and material.Intense competition in our industry may hinder our ability to attract and retain customers and generate revenue, and may diminish our margins.The business environment in which we operate is rapidly evolving, highly fragmented and intensely competitive, and we expect competition to persist and intensify. Increased competition could adversely affect operating results by causing lower demand for our products and services, reduced revenue, more product returns, price reductions or concessions, reduced gross margins and loss of customers. Many of our current and potential competitors in the U.S. and internationally have substantially greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we do, as well as greater name recognition in some locations, as well as in some cases, lower costs. Some competitors offer more differentiated products (for example, online learning as well as physical classrooms and textbooks) that may allow them to more flexibly meet changing consumer preferences. The resources of our competitors also may enable them to respond more rapidly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements and preferences and to offer lower prices than ours or to offer free language-learning software or online services. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors.There are a number of free online language-learning opportunities to learn grammar, pronunciation, vocabulary (including specialties in areas such as medicine and business), reading, and conversation by means of podcasts and MP3s, mobile applications, audio courses and lessons, videos, games, stories, news, digital textbooks, and through other means. We estimate that there are thousands of free mobile applications on language-learning; free products are provided in at least 50 languages by private companies, universities, and government agencies. Low barriers to entry allow start-up companies with 9Table of Contentslower costs and less pressure for profitability to compete with us. Funded by venture capital that is often focused more on user acquisition rather than profitability, these companies can offer products at significantly lower prices or for free. As free online translation services improve and become more widely available and used, people may become less interested in language learning generally. Although we also offer free products such as mobile apps, if we cannot successfully attract users of these free products and convert a sufficient portion of these free users into paying customers, our business could be adversely affected. If free products become more engaging and competitive or gain widespread acceptance by the public, demand for our products could decline or we may have to lower our prices, which could adversely impact our revenues and other results. Because a substantial portion of our revenue is currently generated from our consumer business, if we fail to accurately anticipate consumer demand and trends in consumer preferences, our brands, sales and customer relationships may be harmed.Demand for our language-learning, literacy and brain fitness software products and related services, and for consumer products and services in general, is subject to rapidly changing consumer demand and trends in consumer preferences. Therefore, our success depends upon our ability to:•identify, anticipate, understand and respond to these trends in a timely manner;•introduce appealing new products and performance features on a timely basis;•provide appealing solutions that engage our customers;•adapt and offer our products and services using rapidly evolving, widely varying and complex technologies; •anticipate and meet consumer demand for additional languages, learning levels and new platforms for delivery;•effectively position and market our products and services;•identify and secure cost-effective means of marketing our products to reach the appropriate consumers;•identify cost-effective sales distribution channels and other sales outlets where interested consumers will buy our products;•anticipate and respond to consumer price sensitivity and pricing changes of competitive products; and•identify and successfully implement ways of building brand loyalty and reputation.We anticipate having to make investments in new products in the future and we may incur significant expenses without achieving the anticipated benefits of our investment or preserving our brand and reputation. Investments in new products and technology are speculative, the development cycle for products may exceed planned estimates and commercial success depends on many factors, including innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and marketing. Customers might not perceive our latest offerings as providing significant new value and may reduce their purchases of our offerings, unfavorably impacting revenue. We might not achieve significant revenue from new product and service investments for a number of years, if at all. We also might not be able to develop new solutions or enhancements in time to capture business opportunities or achieve sustainable acceptance in new or existing places. Furthermore, consumers may defer purchases of our solutions in anticipation of new products or new versions from us or our competitors. A decline in consumer demand for our solutions, or any failure on our part to satisfy such changing consumer preferences, could harm our business and profitability.10Table of ContentsIf the recognition by schools and other organizations of the value of technology-based education does not continue to grow, our ability to generate revenue from organizations could be impaired.Our success depends in part upon the continued adoption by organizations and potential customers of technology-based education initiatives. Some academics and educators oppose online education in principle and have expressed concerns regarding the perceived loss of control over the education process that could result from offering courses online. If the acceptance of technology-based education does not continue to grow, our ability to continue to grow our Global Enterprise & Education business could be impaired. We depend on discretionary consumer spending in the consumer segment of our business. Adverse trends in general economic conditions, including retail and online shopping patterns or consumer confidence, as well as other external consumer dynamics may compromise our ability to generate revenue.The success of our business depends to a significant extent upon discretionary consumer spending, which is subject to a number of factors, including general economic conditions, consumer confidence, employment levels, business conditions, interest rates, availability of credit, inflation and taxation. Adverse trends in any of these economic indicators may cause consumer spending to decline further, which could hurt our sales and profitability. Because a significant portion of our consumer sales are made to or through retailers and distributors, none of which has any obligation to sell our products, the failure or inability of these parties to sell our products effectively could hurt our revenue and profitability.We rely on retailers and distributors, together with our direct sales force, to sell our products. Our sales to retailers and distributors are highly concentrated on a small group that comprises a mix of websites, such as Digital River and Apple iTunes App Store, select retail resellers such as Amazon.com, Barnes & Noble, Target, Best Buy, Books-a-Million, Staples, Sam's Club, and Costco, daily deal partners such as Groupon, home shopping networks such as GS Home Shopping in Korea, and consignment distributors such as Wynit Distribution and Software Packaging Associates. Sales to or through our retailers and distributors accounted for approximately 13% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to 18% for the year ended December 31, 2013.We have no control over the amount of products that these retailers and distributors purchase from us or sell on our behalf, we do not have long-term contracts with any of them, and they have no obligation to offer or sell our products or to give us any particular shelf space or product placement within their stores. Thus, there is no guarantee that this source of revenue will continue at the same level as it has in the past or that these retailers and distributors will not promote competitors' products over our products or enter into exclusive relationships with competitors. Any material adverse change in the principal commercial terms, material decrease in the volume of sales generated by our larger retailers or distributors or major disruption or termination of a relationship with these retailers and distributors could result in a significant decline in our revenue and profitability. Furthermore, product display locations and promotional activities that retailers undertake can affect the sales of our products. The fact that we also sell our products directly could cause retailers or distributors to reduce their efforts to promote our products or stop selling our products altogether. Many traditional physical retailers are experiencing diminished foot traffic and sales. For our retail business, even though online sales have increased in popularity and are growing in importance, we continue to depend on sales that take place in physical stores and shopping malls. Reduced customer foot traffic in these stores and malls is likely to reduce their sales of our products. In addition, if one or more of these retailers or distributors are unable to meet their obligations with respect to accounts payable to us, we could be forced to write off such accounts. Any bankruptcy, liquidation, insolvency or other failure of any of these retailers or distributors could result in significant financial loss and cause us to lose revenue in future periods.Price reductions and other concessions could reduce our revenue.We continue to test and offer changes to the pricing of our products. If we reduce our prices in an effort to increase our sales, this could have an adverse impact on our revenues to the extent that unit sales do not increase in a sufficient amount to compensate for the lower pricing. Reducing our pricing to individual consumers could also cause us to have to lower pricing to our Global Enterprise and Education customers. Any increase in the taxation of online sales could have the effect of a price increase to consumers and could cause us to have to lower our prices or could cause sales to decline. It is uncertain whether we will need to continue to lower prices to effectively compete and what the other short and long-term impacts could be. We also may provide our retailers and distributors with price protection on existing inventories, which would allow these retailers and distributors a credit against amounts owed with respect to unsold packaged product under certain conditions. These price protection reserves could be material in future periods.11Table of ContentsIn the U.S. and Canada, we offer consumers who purchase our packaged software and audio practice products directly from us a 30-day, unconditional, full money-back refund. We also permit some of our retailers and distributors to return packaged products, subject to certain limitations. We establish revenue reserves for packaged product returns based on historical experience, estimated channel inventory levels, the timing of new product introductions and other factors. If packaged product returns exceed our reserve estimates, the excess would offset reported revenue, which could hurt our reported financial results.Our future growth and profitability will depend in large part upon the effectiveness and efficiency of our marketing.Our future growth and profitability will depend in large part upon the effectiveness and efficiency of our marketing, including our ability to:•appropriately and efficiently allocate our marketing for multiple products;•accurately identify, target and reach our audience of potential customers with our marketing messages;•select the right marketplace, media and specific media vehicle in which to advertise;•identify the most effective and efficient level of spending in each marketplace, media and specific media vehicle;•determine the appropriate creative message and media mix for advertising, marketing and promotional expenditures;•effectively manage marketing costs, including creative and media expenses, in order to maintain acceptable customer acquisition costs;•differentiate our products as compared to other products;•create greater awareness of our new products like kids' literacy and brain fitness, and of our brands and learning solutions;•drive traffic to our websites, call centers, distribution channels and retail partners; and•convert customer inquiries into actual orders.Our planned marketing may not result in increased revenue or generate sufficient levels of product and brand name awareness, and we may not be able to increase our net sales at the same rate as we increase our advertising expenditures.Some of our radio, television, print, and online advertising has been through the purchase of "remnant" advertising segments. These segments are random time slots and publication dates that have remained unsold and are offered at discounts to advertisers who are willing to be flexible with respect to time slots. There is a limited supply of this type of advertising and the availability of such advertising may decline or the cost of such advertising may increase. In addition, if we increase our marketing budget it cannot be assured that we can increase the amount of remnant advertising at the discounted prices we have obtained in the past. If any of these events occur, we may be forced to purchase time slots and publication dates at higher prices, which will increase our costs.We engage in an active public relations program, including through social media sites such as Facebook and Twitter. We also seek new customers through our online marketing efforts, including paid search listings, banner ads, text links and permission-based e-mails, as well as our affiliate and reseller programs. If one or more of the search engines or other online sources on which we rely for website traffic were to modify their general methodology for how they display our websites, 12Table of Contentsresulting in fewer consumers clicking through to our websites, our sales could suffer. If any free search engine on which we rely begins charging fees for listing or placement, or if one or more of the search engines or other online sources on which we rely for purchased listings, modifies or terminates its relationship with us, our expenses could rise, we could lose customers and traffic to our websites could decrease.We dynamically adjust our mix of marketing programs to acquire new customers at a reasonable cost with the intention of achieving overall financial goals. If we are unable to maintain or replace our sources of customers with similarly effective sources, or if the cost of our existing sources increases, our customer levels and marketing expenses may be adversely affected.Our international expansion may not succeed and imposes special risks.Our business strategy contemplates stabilizing the losses we have experienced internationally in order to prepare for future international growth and expansion. We are currently augmenting and optimizing certain of our website direct sales channels in Europe, Asia and Latin America. In addition, we are continuing to selectively expand and optimize our indirect sales channels in Europe, Asia and Latin America through reseller and other arrangements with third parties. If we are unable to stabilize losses in our international operations successfully and in a timely manner, our ability to subsequently pursue our growth strategy will be impaired. Such stabilization and expansion may be more difficult or take longer than we anticipate, and we may not be able to successfully market, sell, deliver and support our products and services internationally to the extent we expect.Our international operations and our efforts to increase international sales are subject to a number of risks that are in addition to or different than those affecting our U.S. operations, including:•difficulty in staffing and managing geographically dispersed operations and culturally diverse work forces and increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations;•difficulty in effectively managing third-party resellers of our products and services;•difficulty in establishing and maintaining financial and other internal controls over geographically dispersed operations;•competition from local language-learning software providers and preferences for local products in some regions;•expenses associated with customizing products, support services and websites for foreign countries;•inability to register domain names in Country Code Top Level Domains in order to operate country specific websites to permit consumers to easily locate our products in other countries due in large part to cybersquatting;•difficulties with providing appropriate and appealing products to suit consumer preferences and capabilities, such as the potential need to customize our English-based language-learning software solutions by country or region;•difficulties with establishing successful sales channels;•inability to successfully develop relationships with significant retailers and distributors;•potential political and economic instability in some regions;13Table of Contents•potential unpredictable changes in foreign government regulations;•legal and cultural differences in the conduct of business;•import and export license requirements, tariffs, taxes and other trade barriers;•fluctuations in currency exchange rates;•potentially adverse tax consequences;•difficulties in enforcing contracts and collecting accounts receivable, and longer payment cycles, especially in emerging markets;•the need to accept different and higher cost consumer payment methods; •the costs and difficulties of complying with a wide variety of U.S. and foreign laws, regulations, trade standards, treaties and technical standards, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;•difficulty in protecting our intellectual property and the high incidence of software piracy in some regions;•costs and delays in hiring or downsizing foreign work forces as a result of differing employment and other laws;•protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competitors; and•costs and difficulties of complying with differing laws on the collection, use and storage of personal data and the liabilities for unauthorized disclosure or theft of this data under the laws of different countries..The effects of any of the risks described above could reduce our future revenue from our international operations and could harm our overall business, revenue and financial results.If we are unable to continually adapt our products and services to mobile devices and technologies other than personal computers and laptops, and to adapt to other technological changes and customer needs generally, we may be unable to attract and retain customers, and our revenue and business could suffer.We need to anticipate, develop and introduce new products, services and applications on a timely and cost-effective basis that keeps pace with technological developments and changing customer needs. The process of developing new high technology products, services and applications and enhancing existing products, services and applications is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our ability to attract and retain customers and our results of operations. For example, the number of individuals who access the internet through devices other than a personal computer, such as tablet computers, mobile devices, televisions and set-top box devices, has increased dramatically and this trend is likely to continue. Our products and services may not work or be viewable on these devices because each manufacturer or distributor may establish unique technical standards for such devices. Accordingly, we may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support and maintenance of such versions. If we fail to develop or sell products and services on a cost-effective basis that respond to these or other technological developments and changing customer needs, we may be harmed in our ability to attract and retain customers, and 14Table of Contentsour revenue and business could suffer. Furthermore, our customers who view our advertising via mobile devices might not buy our products to the same extent that they do when viewing our advertising via personal computers or laptops. Accordingly, if we cannot convince customers to purchase our products via mobile devices, our business and results of operations could be harmed to the extent that the trend to mobile devices continues. We offer our software products on operating systems and platforms including Windows, Macintosh, Apple OS, Android, and Amazon apps. The demand for personal computers has been declining, which means that we must be able to market to potential customers and to provide customers with access to and use of our products and services on many platforms and operating systems, as they may be changed from time to time. To the extent new releases of operating systems, including for mobile and non-PC devices, or other third-party products, platforms or devices make it more difficult for our products to perform, and our customers use alternative technologies, our business could be harmed.Our software products must interoperate with computer operating systems of our customers. If we are unable to ensure that our products interoperate properly with customer systems, our business could be harmed.Our products must interoperate with our customers' computer systems, including student learning management systems of our enterprise and education customers. As a result, we must continually ensure that our products interoperate properly with these systems. Changes in operating systems, the technologies we incorporate into our products or the computer systems our customers use may damage our business.If there are changes in the spending policies or budget priorities for government funding of colleges, universities, schools, other education providers, or government agencies, we could lose revenue.Many of our enterprise and education customers are colleges, universities, primary and secondary schools and school districts, other education providers, armed forces and government agencies that depend substantially on government funding. Accordingly, any general decrease, delay or change in federal, state or local funding for colleges, universities, primary and secondary schools and school districts, or other education providers or government agencies that use our products and services could cause our current and potential customers to reduce their purchases of our products and services, to exercise their right to terminate licenses, or to decide not to renew licenses, any of which could cause us to lose revenue. In addition, a specific reduction in governmental funding support for products such as ours would also cause us to lose revenue and could hurt our overall gross margins. Some of our enterprise and education business faces a lengthy and unpredictable sales cycle, which could delay new sales.We face a lengthy sales cycle between our initial contact with some potential enterprise and education customers and the signing of license agreements with these customers. As a result of this lengthy sales cycle, we have only a limited ability to forecast the timing of such enterprise and education sales. A delay in or failure to complete license transactions could cause us to lose revenue, and could cause our financial results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our sales cycle varies widely, reflecting differences in our potential enterprise and education customers' decision-making processes, procurement requirements and budget cycles, and is subject to significant risks over which we have little or no control, including:•customers' budgetary constraints and priorities;•the timing of our customers' budget cycles;•the need by some customers for lengthy evaluations that often include administrators and faculties; and•the length and timing of customers' approval processes.As we move our consumer business online and sell our solutions as a subscription, rather than for an upfront fee, our revenue, results of operations and cash flow could be negatively impacted.Historically, we have predominantly sold our packaged software programs under a perpetual license for a single upfront fee and recorded 65-90% of the revenue at the time of sale. Certain of our online products are sold under different subscription terms, from short-term to 36-month subscriptions with a corresponding license term. Selling in this manner could result in substantially less cash and revenue from the initial sale to the customer and could have a substantially negative impact on our revenue, results of operations and cash flow in the short term. Furthermore, to the extent that customers use our products and 15Table of Contentsservices for only a short time after purchase, online subscription customers could be less likely to continue their subscriptions past the initial term with the effect that we could earn less revenue over time from each customer than historically. Our revenue is subject to seasonal and quarterly variations, which could cause our financial results to fluctuate significantly.We have experienced, and we believe we will continue to experience, substantial seasonal and quarterly variations in our revenue, cash flows and net income. These variations are primarily related to increased sales of our products and services to consumers in the fourth quarter during the holiday selling season as well as higher sales to governmental and educational institutions in the second and third quarters. We sell to a significant number of our retailers, distributors and enterprise and education customers on a purchase order basis and we receive orders when these customers need products and services. As a result, their orders are typically not evenly distributed throughout the year. Our quarterly results of operations also may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of other factors, including the timing of holidays and advertising initiatives, changes in our products, services and advertising initiatives and changes in those of our competitors. Budgetary constraints of our enterprise and education customers may also cause our quarterly results to fluctuate.As a result of these seasonal and quarterly fluctuations, we believe that comparisons of our results of operations between different quarters are not necessarily meaningful and that these comparisons are not reliable as indicators of our future performance. In addition, these fluctuations could result in volatility and adversely affect our cash flows. Any seasonal or quarterly fluctuations that we report in the future may differ from the expectations of market analysts and investors. This could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly.Acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic alliances may have an adverse effect on our business.We have made and may continue to make acquisitions or enter into joint ventures and strategic alliances as part of our long-term business strategy. Such transactions involve significant challenges and risks including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy, that we do not realize a satisfactory return on our investment, that we experience difficulty integrating new technology, employees, and business systems, diversion of management's attention from our other businesses or that we acquire undiscovered liabilities such as patent infringement claims or violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. It may take longer than expected to realize the full benefits, such as increased revenue, enhanced efficiencies, or more customers, or those benefits may ultimately be smaller than anticipated, or may not be realized. These events and circumstances could harm our operating results or financial condition.The anticipated benefits of recent acquisitions could be impacted by a number of risks specific to our business, as well as by risks related to the integration process. The Company made four acquisitions from 2013 until early 2014. The significant risks and challenges that may limit our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of acquisitions include:•lack of employee retention stemming from the acquisitions;•sales of the acquired products and services might not perform as we anticipated;•the risk of increased attrition of the acquired entities’ customers;•the risk that cross-selling Rosetta Stone products and services to customers of the acquired entities (and vice versa) might not be successful;•the pipeline of the acquired entities’ future products under development may take longer than predicted to launch or might fail to launch at all; •the difficulty of integrating the acquired entities’ technology into our current and future products and services; and•the difficulty in managing a more complex technology environment which may reduce opportunities for economies of scale that otherwise could result from an acquisition.If we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks and challenges, our business and prospects could be harmed.We may incur significant costs related to data security breaches that could compromise our information technology network security, trade secrets and customer data. Threats to our information technology network security can take a variety of forms. Individual hackers and groups of hackers, and sophisticated organizations or individuals may threaten our information technology network security. Cyber attackers may develop and deploy malicious software to attack our services and gain access to our networks, data centers, or act in a coordinated manner to launch distributed denial of service or other coordinated attacks. Cyber threats and attacks are constantly evolving, thereby increasing the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them. Cyber threats and attacks can have cascading impacts that unfold with increasing speed across internal networks and systems. Breaches of our network or data security could disrupt the security of our internal systems and business applications, impair our ability to provide services to our customers and protect the privacy of their data, resulting in product development delays, could compromise confidential or technical business information harming our competitive position, result in theft or misuse of our intellectual property or other assets, require us to allocate more resources to improved technologies, or otherwise adversely affect our business.Our possession and use of personal information presents risks and expenses that could harm our business. Unauthorized disclosure or manipulation of such data, whether through breach of our network security or otherwise, could expose us to costly litigation and damage our reputation.Possession and use of personal information in conducting our business subjects us to legislative and regulatory obligations that could require notification of data breaches, restrict our use of personal information and hinder our ability to acquire new customers or market to existing customers. As our business evolves and as we expand internationally, we may become subject to additional and even more stringent legal obligations concerning our treatment of customer information. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, expenses to comply with privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards or contractual obligations.If third parties improperly obtain and use the personal information of our customers or employees, we may be required to expend significant resources to resolve these problems. A major breach of our network security and systems could have serious negative consequences for our businesses, including possible fines, penalties and damages, reduced customer demand for our products and services, harm to our reputation and brand and loss of our ability to accept and process customer credit card orders.We are exposed to risks associated with credit card and payment fraud, and with our obligations under rules on credit card processing and alternative payment methods, which could cause us to lose revenue or incur costs.As an e-commerce provider that accepts debit and credit cards for payment, we are subject to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard ("PCI DSS"), issued by the PCI Council. PCI DSS contains compliance guidelines and standards with regard to our network security surrounding the physical and electronic storage, processing and transmission of individual cardholder data. Despite our compliance with these standards and other information security measures, we cannot guarantee that all our information technology systems are able to prevent, contain or detect any cyber attacks, cyber terrorism, or security breaches from currently known viruses or malware, or viruses or malware that may be developed in the future. To the extent any disruption results in the loss, damage or misappropriation of information, we may be adversely affected by claims from customers, financial institutions, regulatory authorities, payment card associations and others. In addition, the cost of complying with stricter privacy and information security laws and standards could be significant.We are subject to rules, regulations and practices governing our accepted payment methods which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. A failure to comply with these rules or requirements could make us subject to fines and higher transaction fees and we could lose our ability to accept these payment methods. Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if these changes were to occur.Any significant interruptions in the operations of our website, call center or third-party call centers, especially during the holiday shopping season, could cause us to lose sales and disrupt our ability to process orders and deliver our solutions in a timely manner.We rely on our website, an in-house call center and third-party call centers to sell our solutions, respond to customer service and technical support requests and process orders. These activities are especially important during the holiday season 16Table of Contentsand in particular Black Friday through Cyber Monday. Any significant interruption in the operation of these facilities, including an interruption caused by our failure to successfully expand or upgrade our systems or to manage these expansions or upgrades, could reduce our ability to receive and process orders and provide products and services, which could result in lost and cancelled sales and damage to our brand and reputation. These risks are more important during the Black Friday through Cyber Monday holiday season, when many sales of our products and services take place. We structure our marketing and advertising to drive potential customers to our website and call centers to purchase our solutions. If we experience technical difficulties with our websites or if our call center operators do not convert inquiries into sales at expected rates, our ability to generate revenue could be impaired. Training and retaining qualified call center operators is challenging due to the expansion of our product and service offerings and the seasonality of our business. If we do not adequately train our call center operators, they will not convert inquiries into sales at an acceptable rate.If any of our products or services contain defects or errors or if new product releases or services are delayed, our reputation could be harmed, resulting in significant costs to us and impairing our ability to sell our solutions.If our products or services contain defects, errors or security vulnerabilities, our reputation could be harmed, which could result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our products in the future. In the past, we have encountered product development delays due to errors or defects. We would expect that, despite our testing, errors could be found in new products and product enhancements in the future. Significant errors in our products or services could lead to, among other things:•delays in or loss of marketplace acceptance of our products and services;•diversion of our resources;•a lower rate of license renewals or upgrades for consumer and enterprise and education customers;•injury to our reputation; •increased service expenses or payment of damages; or•costly litigation.If we fail to effectively upgrade our information technology systems, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud.As part of our efforts to continue improving our internal control over financial reporting, we plan to continue to upgrade our existing financial information technology systems in order to automate several controls that are currently performed manually. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to these upgraded systems, including loss of data and decreases in productivity, as personnel become familiar with these new systems. In addition, our management information systems will require modification and refinement as our business needs change, which could prolong difficulties we experience with systems transitions, and we may not always employ the most effective systems for our purposes. If we experience difficulties in implementing new or upgraded information systems or experience significant system failures, or if we are unable to successfully modify our management information systems or respond to changes in our business needs, we may not be able to effectively manage our business and we may fail to meet our reporting obligations. In addition, as a result of the automation of these manual processes, the data produced may cause us to question the accuracy of previously reported financial results.Failure to maintain the availability of the systems, networks, databases and software required to operate and deliver our internet-based products and services could damage our reputation and cause us to lose revenue. We rely on internal and external systems, networks and databases maintained by us and third-party providers to process customer orders, handle customer service requests, and host and deliver our internet-based learning solutions. Any damage, interruption or failure of our systems, networks and databases could prevent us from processing customer orders and result in degradation or interruptions in delivery of our products and services. Notwithstanding our efforts to protect against interruptions in the availability of our e-commerce websites and internet-based products and services, we do occasionally experience unplanned outages or technical difficulties. In addition, we do not have complete redundancy for all of our systems. 17Table of ContentsIn the event of an interruption or system event we may be unable to meet contract service level requirements, or we could experience an unrecoverable loss of data which could cause us to lose customers and could harm our reputation and cause us to face unexpected liabilities and expenses. If we continue to expand our business, we will put additional strains on these systems. As we continue to move additional product features to online systems or place more of our business online, all of these considerations will become more significant.We may also need to grow, reconfigure or relocate our data centers in response to changing business needs, which may be costly and lead to unplanned disruptions of service.We may incur losses associated with currency fluctuations and may not be able to effectively hedge our exposure, which could impair our financial performance.Our operating results are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We currently do not attempt to mitigate a portion of these risks through foreign currency hedging, based on our judgment of the appropriate trade-offs among risk, opportunity and expense. In the future, we might choose to engage in foreign currency hedging transactions, which would involve different risks and uncertainties. Our revolving credit facility contains covenants which may adversely impact our business and the failure to comply with such covenants could cause any outstanding debt to become immediately payable. Our revolving credit facility contains financial covenants currently applicable to us, as well as a number of restrictive covenants, including restrictions on incurring additional debt, making investments and other restricted payments, selling assets, paying dividends and redeeming or repurchasing capital stock and debt, subject to certain exceptions. Our $25 million revolving credit facility requires us to maintain a minimum Adjusted EBITDA and quick ratio during its term. Collectively, these covenants could constrain our ability to grow our business through acquisition or engage in other transactions. If we are not able to comply with all of these covenants, for any reason, some or all of any outstanding debt could become immediately due and payable which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and ability to conduct our business.If our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings.Under GAAP, we review our goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment at least annually and when there are changes in circumstances. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry. In the first quarter of 2014, we recorded a goodwill impairment loss of $2.2 million, which represents a full impairment of the ROW Consumer reporting unit’s goodwill and in the fourth quarter of 2014, we recorded a goodwill impairment loss of $18.0 million, which represents a full impairment of the North America Consumer Language reporting unit's goodwill. We may be required to record additional significant charges to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or indefinite lived intangible assets is determined, resulting in a negative effect on our results of operations.We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities.We are subject to income and indirect tax in the U.S. and many foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income and indirect taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. The application of indirect taxes (such as sales and use tax, value-added tax (VAT), goods and services tax, business tax and gross receipt tax) to our businesses and to our users is complex, uncertain and evolving, in part because many of the fundamental statutes and regulations that impose indirect taxes were established before the adoption and growth of the internet and e-commerce. We are subject to audit by multiple tax authorities throughout the world. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our financial statements in the period or periods for which that determination is made. Further, any changes to the U.S. or any foreign jurisdictions’ tax laws, tax rates, or the interpretation of such tax laws, including the Base Erosion Profit Shifting (“BEPS”) project being conducted by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (“OECD”) could significantly impact how U.S. multinational corporations are taxed. Although we cannot predict whether or in what form any legislation changes may pass, if enacted it could have a material adverse impact on our tax expense, deferred tax assets and cash flows.Our deferred tax assets may not be fully realizable.At December 31, 2014, we had gross deferred tax assets of $61.1 million which was offset by a valuation allowance of $53.8 million for certain jurisdictions. We recorded the valuation allowance to reflect uncertainties about whether we will be able to realize some of our deferred tax assets before they expire. The valuation allowance is based on our estimates of taxable 18Table of Contentsincome for the jurisdictions in which we operate and the period over which our deferred tax assets will be realizable. We could in the future be required to increase the valuation allowance to take into account additional deferred tax assets that we may be unable to realize. An increase in the valuation allowance would have an adverse impact, which could be material, on our income tax provision and net income in the period in which we record the increase.We are subject to U.S. and foreign government regulation of online services which could subject us to claims, judgments, and remedies, including monetary liabilities and limitations on our business practices.We are subject to regulations and laws directly applicable to providers of online services. The application of existing domestic and international laws and regulations to us relating to issues such as user privacy and data protection, data security, defamation, promotions, billing, consumer protection, accessibility, content regulation, quality of services, and intellectual property ownership and infringement in many instances is unclear or unsettled. Also, the collection and protection of information from children under the age of 13 is subject to the provisions of the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA), which is particularly relevant to our learning solutions focused on children. In addition, we will also be subject to any new laws and regulations directly applicable to our domestic and international activities. Internationally, we may also be subject to laws regulating our activities in foreign countries and to foreign laws and regulations that are inconsistent from country to country. We may incur substantial liabilities for expenses necessary to defend litigation in connection with such regulations and laws or to comply with these laws and regulations, as well as potential substantial penalties for any failure to comply.Changes in how network operators handle and charge for access to data that travel across their networks could adversely impact our business.We rely upon the ability of customers to access many of our products through the internet. To the extent that network operators implement usage based pricing, including meaningful bandwidth caps, or otherwise try to monetize access to their networks by data providers, we could incur greater operating expenses and our customer acquisition and retention could be negatively impacted. Furthermore, to the extent network operators were to create tiers of internet access service and either charge us for or prohibit us from being available through these tiers, our business could be negatively impacted.Protection of our intellectual property is limited, and any misuse of our intellectual property by others, including software piracy, could harm our business, reputation and competitive position.Our intellectual property is important to our success. We believe our trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, patents, pending patent applications, trade dress and designs are valuable and integral to our success and competitive position. To protect our proprietary rights, we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade dress, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions and technical measures. However, even if we are able to secure such rights in the United States, the laws of other countries in which our products are sold may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States.In addition to issued patents, we have several patent applications on file in the U.S. and other countries. However, we do not know whether any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents or whether the examination process will require us to narrow our claims. Even if patents are issued from our patent applications, which are not certain, they may be challenged, circumvented or invalidated in the future. Moreover, the rights granted under any issued patents may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages, and, as with any technology, competitors may be able to develop similar or superior technologies now or in the future. In addition, we have not emphasized patents as a source of significant competitive advantage and have instead sought to primarily protect our proprietary rights under laws affording protection for trade secrets, copyright and trademark protection of our products, brands, and other intellectual property where available and appropriate. These measures afford only limited protection and may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. In addition, these protections may not be adequate to prevent our competitors or customers from copying or reverse-engineering our products. Third parties could copy all or portions of our products or otherwise obtain, use, distribute and sell our proprietary information without authorization. Third parties may also develop similar or superior technology independently by designing around our intellectual property, which would decrease demand for our products. In addition, our patents may not provide us with any competitive advantages and the patents of others may seriously impede our ability to conduct our business.We protect our products, trade secrets and proprietary information, in part, by requiring all of our employees to enter into agreements providing for the maintenance of confidentiality and the assignment of rights to inventions made by them while employed by us. We also enter into non-disclosure agreements with our technical consultants, customers, vendors and resellers to protect our confidential and proprietary information. We cannot guarantee that our confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and other third parties will not be breached, that we will be able to effectively enforce these agreements, 19Table of Contentsthat we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets and other proprietary information will not be disclosed or will otherwise be protected.We rely on contractual and license agreements with third parties in connection with their use of our products and technology. There is no guarantee that such parties will abide by the terms of such agreements or that we will be able to adequately enforce our rights, in part because we rely, in many instances, on "click-wrap" and "shrink-wrap" licenses, which are not negotiated or signed by individual licensees. Accordingly, some provisions of our licenses, including provisions protecting against unauthorized use, copying, transfer, resale and disclosure of the licensed software program, could be unenforceable under the laws of several jurisdictions.Protection of trade secret and other intellectual property rights in the places in which we operate and compete is highly uncertain and may involve complex legal questions. The laws of countries in which we operate may afford little or no protection to our trade secrets and other intellectual property rights. Although we defend our intellectual property rights and combat unlicensed copying and use of software and intellectual property rights through a variety of techniques, preventing unauthorized use or infringement of our intellectual property rights is inherently difficult. Despite our enforcement efforts against software piracy, we could lose significant revenue due to illegal use of our software and from counterfeit copies of our software. If piracy activities increase, it could further harm our business.We also expect that competitors might try to illegally use our proprietary information and develop products that are similar to ours, which may infringe on our proprietary rights. In addition, we could potentially lose trade secret protection for our source code if any unauthorized disclosure of such code occurs. The loss of trade secret protection could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality. In addition, any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, the trade secret and other intellectual property laws in any country in which we operate may compromise our ability to enforce our trade secret and intellectual property rights. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our confidential information and trade secret protection. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights or if third parties independently develop or gain access to our or similar technologies, our business, revenue, reputation and competitive position could be harmed.Third-party use of our trademarks as keywords in internet search engine advertising programs may direct potential customers to competitors' websites, which could harm our reputation and cause us to lose sales.Competitors and other third parties, including counterfeiters, purchase our trademarks and confusingly similar terms as keywords in internet search engine advertising programs in order to divert potential customers to their websites. Preventing such unauthorized use is inherently difficult. If we are unable to protect our trademarks and confusingly similar terms from such unauthorized use, competitors and other third parties may continue to drive potential online customers away from our websites to competing and unauthorized websites, which could harm our reputation and cause us to lose sales.Our trademarks are limited in scope and geographic coverage and might not significantly distinguish us from our competition.We own several U.S. trademark registrations, including registrations of the Rosetta Stone, Tell Me More, Livemocha, and Lexia trademarks, as well as U.S. registrations of the color yellow as a trademark. In addition, we hold common law trademark rights and have trademark applications pending in the U.S. and abroad for additional trademarks. Even if federal registrations and registrations in other countries are granted to us, our trademark rights may be challenged. It is also possible that our competitors will adopt trademarks similar to ours, thus impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to customer confusion. In fact, various third parties have registered trademarks that are similar to ours in the U.S. and overseas. Furthermore, notwithstanding the fact that we may have secured trademark rights for our various trademarks in the United States and in some countries where we do business, in other countries we may not have secured similar rights and, in those countries there may be third parties who have prior use and prior or superior rights to our own. That prior use, prior or superior right could limit use of our trademarks and we could be challenged in our efforts to use the Company’s trademarks. We could incur substantial costs in prosecuting or defending trademark infringement suits. If we fail to effectively enforce our trademark rights, our competitive position and brand recognition may be diminished.We must monitor and protect our internet domain names to preserve their value. We may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe on or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks.We own several domain names related to our business. Third parties may acquire substantially similar domain names or Top Level Domains ("TLDs") that decrease the value of our domain names and trademarks and other proprietary rights which may hurt our business. Third parties also may acquire country specific domain names in the form of Country Code TLDs that include our trademarks or similar terms and which prevent us from operating country specific websites from which customers can view our products and engage in transactions with us. Moreover, the regulation of domain names in the United States and foreign countries is subject to change. Governing bodies could appoint additional domain name registrars, modify the 20Table of Contentsrequirements for holding domain names or release additional TLDs. As a result, we may have to incur additional costs to maintain control over potentially relevant domain names or may not maintain exclusive rights to all potentially relevant domain names in the United States or in other countries in which we conduct business, which could harm our business or reputation. Moreover, attempts may be made to register our trademarks as new TLDs or as domain names within new TLDs and we will have to make efforts to enforce our rights against such registration attempts.Claims that we misuse the intellectual property of others could subject us to significant liability and disrupt our business.We may become subject to material claims of infringement by competitors and other third parties with respect to current or future products, e-commerce and other web-related technologies, online business methods, trademarks or other proprietary rights. Our competitors, some of which may have made significant investments in competing products and technologies, and may have, or seek to apply for and obtain, patents, copyrights or trademarks that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use and sell our current and future products and technologies, and we may not be successful in defending allegations of infringement of these patents, copyrights or trademarks. Further, we may not be aware of all of the patents and other intellectual property rights owned by third parties that may be potentially adverse to our interests. We may need to resort to litigation to enforce our proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity of a third-party's patents or other proprietary rights, including whether any of our products, technologies or processes infringe the patents or other proprietary rights of third parties. We may incur substantial expenses in defending against third-party infringement claims regardless of the merit of such claims. The outcome of any such proceedings is uncertain and, if unfavorable, could force us to discontinue advertising and sale of the affected products or impose significant penalties, limitations or restrictions on our business. We do not conduct comprehensive patent searches to determine whether the technologies used in our products infringe upon patents held by others. In addition, product development is inherently uncertain in a rapidly evolving technological environment in which there may be numerous patent applications pending, many of which are confidential when filed, with regard to similar technologies.We do not own all of the software, other technologies and content used in our products and services, and the failure to obtain rights to use such software, other technologies and content could harm our business.Some of our products and services contain intellectual property owned by third parties, including software that is integrated with internally developed software and voice recognition software, which we license from third parties. From time to time we may be required to renegotiate with these third parties or negotiate with new third parties to include their technology or content in our existing products, in new versions of our existing products or in wholly new products. We may not be able to negotiate or renegotiate licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and the third-party software may not be appropriately supported, maintained or enhanced by the licensors. If we are unable to obtain the rights necessary to use or continue to use third-party technology or content in our products and services, this could harm our business, by resulting in increased costs, or in delays or reductions in product shipments until equivalent software could be developed, identified, licensed and integrated.Our use of open source software could impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our products.We incorporate open source software into our products and may use more open source software in the future. The use of open source software is governed by license agreements. The terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. Therefore, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products, make generally available, in source code form, proprietary code that links to certain open source modules, re-engineer our products, discontinue the sale of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a cost-effective and timely basis, or become subject to other consequences. In addition, open source licenses generally do not provide warranties or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the code. Thus, we may have little or no recourse if we become subject to infringement claims relating to the open source software or if the open source software is defective in any manner.As our product and service offerings become more complex, our reported revenue may become less predictable.During 2014, we continued to transition our consumer distribution to more online. The accounting policies that apply to these sources of revenue may be more complex than those that apply to our traditional products and services. In addition, we may change the manner in which we sell our software licenses, and such change could cause delays in revenue recognition in accordance with accounting standards. Under these accounting standards, even if we deliver products and services to, and collect cash from, a customer in a given fiscal period, we may be required to defer recognizing revenue from the sale of such product or service until a future period when all the conditions necessary for revenue recognition have been satisfied. If we move more of our consumer business online we will also collect less cash from our initial transactions with consumers which could substantially decrease our revenues in the short term. Conditions that can cause delays in revenue recognition include software arrangements that have undelivered elements for which we have not yet established vendor specific objective 21Table of Contentsevidence of fair value, requirements that we deliver services for significant enhancements or modifications to customize our software for a particular customer or material customer acceptance criteria.Our consumer language-learning packages that include perpetual software and online services have increased our costs as a percentage of revenue, and these and future product introductions may not succeed and may harm our business, financial results and reputation.Our consumer language-learning packages integrate our language-learning software solutions with online services, which provide opportunities for practice with dedicated language conversation coaches and other language learners to increase language socialization. The online services associated with this software package have decreased our margins. Customers may choose to not engage with conversation coaches or be willing to pay higher prices to do so. In addition, we are required to defer recognition of a portion of each sale of this packaged software in connection with the terms of our online service periods. We cannot assure you that our software package offerings will be successful or profitable, or if they are profitable, that they will provide an adequate return on capital expended. If our software package offering is not successful, our business, financial results and reputation may be harmed. Substantially all of our inventory is located in one warehouse facility. Any damage or disruption at this facility could cause significant financial loss, including loss of revenue and harm to our reputation.Substantially all of our inventory is located in one warehouse facility. We could experience significant interruption in the operation of this facility or damage or destruction of our inventory due to natural disasters, accidents, failures of the inventory locator or automated packing and shipping systems or other events. If a material portion of our inventory were to be damaged or destroyed, we might be unable to meet our contractual obligations which could cause us significant financial loss, including loss of revenue and harm to our reputation. As our business continues to move online, we expect that this risk will diminish over time. Provisions in our organizational documents and in the Delaware General Corporation Law may prevent takeover attempts that could be beneficial to our stockholders.Provisions in our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and second amended and restated bylaws, and in the Delaware General Corporation Law, may make it difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a takeover attempt we oppose even if a change in control of our company would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. Any provision of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation or second amended and restated bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the powers, preferences and rights of each series without stockholder approval. The ability to issue preferred stock could discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our company, or otherwise could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Further, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. This section generally prohibits us from engaging in mergers and other business combinations with stockholders that beneficially own 15% or more of our voting stock, or with their affiliates, unless our directors or stockholders approve the business combination in the prescribed manner. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.