ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following important factors, among others, could cause our actual operating results to differ materially from those indicated or suggested by forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have incurred losses since inception and anticipate that we will continue to incur increasing losses for the foreseeable future. We are a development stage company with a limited operating history and no revenue. As of December 31, 2006, we had a deficit accumulated during the development stage of $94.4 million. We have incurred losses in each year since our formation in 1999. Our net losses applicable to common shareholders for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004 were $27.1 million, $20.2 million, and $18.4 million, respectively. Development of a new medical device, including conducting clinical trials and seeking regulatory approvals, is a long, expensive and uncertain process. We expect to continue to incur significant and increasing operating losses for the next several years. These losses, among other things, have had, and will continue to have, an adverse effect on our shareholders’ equity and working capital. We expect our clinical and regulatory expenses to increase in connection with our ongoing clinical trials, trials that we may initiate in the future, and activities related to pursuing marketing approval of our Renova-ST by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA. We also expect our product development expenses to increase in connection with our ongoing and future product development initiatives. In addition, we expect to incur significant corporate infrastructure and sales and marketing expenses, prior to recording sufficient revenue to offset these expenses, if our Renova-ST is approved for marketing by the FDA. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing new medical devices, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if ever. Our product development programs are based on novel technologies and are inherently risky. We are subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of products based on new technologies. The use of our Renova Cortical Stimulation System for stroke motor recovery and other neurological diseases and disorders is a novel application of neurostimulation therapy that has not previously been investigated to any meaningful extent. The novel nature of these applications results in significant challenges in regards to product development and optimization, government regulation, third party reimbursement and market acceptance. These challenges may prevent us from developing and commercializing products on a timely and profitable basis, or at all. Our success as a company will depend heavily on the success of the initial application of our cortical stimulation therapy, our Renova Cortical Stimulation System, for which we are conducting a pivotal clinical trial. If we are unable to commercialize our Renova Cortical Stimulation System, our ability to generate revenue will be significantly harmed. Since June 2003 we have invested substantially all of our financial resources and our research and product development efforts in our Renova Cortical Stimulation System, which we hope to introduce the Renova-ST for commercial sales starting in the first quarter of 2009, subject to FDA approval. We do not anticipate generating any revenue prior to that time. The commercial success of our Renova-ST tem will depend upon: • completing our ongoing EVEREST trial and successfully demonstrating the safety and efficacy for using our system in treating upper-extremity hemeparisis; • obtaining marketing approval from the FDA; 19 Table of Contents • manufacturing of our system in commercial quantities; • the successful commercial launch of our system; and • the availability and levels of reimbursement by governmental and other third party payors, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs and private healthcare insurers. If we are unable to complete our EVEREST or other trials, or if we experience significant delays, our ability to commercialize our Renova Cortical Stimulation System and our financial position, will be impaired. Our EVEREST trial protocol requires us to obtain clinical data from at least 151 patients to meet our primary safety and efficacy endpoints. Depending on the attrition level, which is the number of enrolled patients who fail for any reason to complete the trial, we will have to treat more than 151 patients to end up with the full set of patient data required by the FDA. Our clinical plan assumes that the attrition level could be as high as 20% of the patients we enroll. We will monitor actual patient attrition during the trial and increase our enrollment accordingly. We currently have approval from the FDA to treat up to 174 patients in the EVEREST trial. If we are required to treat more than 174 patients in the EVEREST trial to obtain a full set of data on 151 patients, we will request an increase in the permissible number of patients from the FDA. Conducting a clinical trial of this size, which involves screening, assessing, testing, treating, and monitoring patients at clinical sites across the United States, and coordinating with patients and clinical institutions as well as with neurologists, neurosurgeons, radiologists, physiatrists and physical therapists, is a complex and uncertain process. To enroll and treat patients at a clinical site, we must first obtain clinical site approvals, finalize contracts at trial sites and train and validate site personnel. We currently expect to reach the primary endpoint of the trial and submit for approval to the FDA by the end of 2007. Completion of our EVEREST trial, and our other ongoing or future clinical trials, could be delayed for several reasons, including: • patients may not enroll in, or complete, clinical trials at the rate we expect; • patients may experience adverse side effects, causing the data safety monitoring board, a clinical site IRB, the FDA, or other regulatory authority to place the clinical trial on hold; • clinical investigators may not perform our clinical trials on our anticipated schedule or consistent with the clinical trial protocol and good clinical practices; and • regulatory inspections of clinical trials or manufacturing facilities may result in our being required to undertake corrective action or suspend or terminate our clinical trials if inspectors find us not to be in compliance with regulatory requirements. In addition, adverse events during a clinical trial could cause us to repeat or terminate a trial, or cancel an entire development program. If our clinical trials are delayed, it will take us longer to commercialize a product and achieve revenue. Moreover, our development costs will increase if we have material delays in our clinical trials or if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. If our EVEREST trial does not meet our anticipated safety or efficacy endpoints our financial position will be materially impaired. If we are not successful in completing our EVEREST trial, or if the data from our EVEREST trial are not satisfactory, we may not proceed with our planned filing of an application for regulatory marketing approval or we may be forced to delay our regulatory filings to conduct additional trials. If we are not successful in securing FDA marketing approval, we may never generate any revenue and may be forced to cease operations. Before we can market our Renova Cortical Stimulation System, we must successfully complete our ongoing EVEREST trial and demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our system. For purposes of the EVEREST trial we 20 Table of Contents will consider our system to be effective if the trial data show that the percentage of patients who undergo cortical stimulation therapy in combination with intensive rehabilitative therapy and achieve clinically meaningful improvements in a combined endpoint of the Upper Extremity Fugl-Meyer (UEFM) test, which provides an index of patients’ neurological and motor function, and the Arm Motor Ability Test (AMAT), a measure of activities of daily living, is 20 percentage points greater than the combined data for patients who undergo intensive rehabilitative therapy alone. The results of the EVEREST trial are “blinded.” We do not know how patients treated with the Renova Cortical Stimulation System to date have responded to treatment. Despite the encouraging results from our two smaller completed feasibility trials, we may be unable to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our system in the EVEREST trial. We may not secure regulatory approval for our Renova Cortical Stimulation System or any other products that we may develop in the future, even if we believe our clinical trial results demonstrate the efficacy of our cortical stimulation therapy. We cannot market our products unless the FDA has approved them. Even if we file an application with clinical data that we believe justifies marketing approval for the Renova Cortical Stimulation System or any other product we may in the future develop, the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may not approve our filing, or may request additional information, including data from additional clinical trials. The FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may also approve our system or any other product for very limited purposes with many restrictions on its use, may delay approval, or ultimately may not grant marketing approval for our system. Because our system represents a novel way to treat motor disabilities caused by stroke, and because there is a large population of stroke patients who might be eligible for treatment, it is possible, if not likely, that the FDA and other regulatory bodies will review an application for approval of our Renova Cortical Stimulation System with greater scrutiny, which may include a panel review, which could cause that process to be lengthier and more involved than that for products without such characteristics. There can be no assurance that the FDA will approve our Renova Cortical Stimulation System for the treatment of any indication even if the clinical trial data demonstrate our anticipated or greater levels of efficacy. We have used two different implantable pulse generators, or IPGs, in our EVEREST trial, switching from a third party IPG to our proprietary IPG after treating 11 investigational patients, which could cause the FDA to require us to treat additional patients in our EVEREST trial. With the FDA’s knowledge and consent, for the first 11 investigational patients in our EVEREST trial we used a third party IPG before switching to use of our proprietary IPG for subsequent EVEREST investigational patients. The parameters of stimulation for the third party IPG and our proprietary IPG are substantially the same. We believe that the FDA will permit us to use the trial data from the patients who received cortical stimulation therapy using a third party IPG, but there is a risk that the FDA could reject this data and require us to obtain data on an additional 11 or more patients using our proprietary IPG, which would delay the completion of our trial and cause us to incur additional expense. Even if our Renova Cortical Stimulation System is approved by regulatory authorities, if we fail to comply with ongoing regulation, or if we experience unanticipated problems with our products, our products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market, and we and/or our suppliers could be subject to legal action. Any product for which we obtain marketing approval will be subject to ongoing regulation, including inspections by the FDA and other regulatory agencies of our products’ manufacturing processes, compliance with Quality System Regulations and review of post-market approval data, as well as review of our promotional activities. Even if regulatory approval of a product is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses or populations for which the product may be marketed. For example, we might be limited to marketing our Renova Cortical Stimulation System for only a subpopulation of stroke patients, which could significantly affect the size of the potential market. In addition, if the data from an FDA-mandated post-market 21 Table of Contents approval trial are not obtained, we may have to collect further data on study patients. This would entail additional clinical costs and continued monitoring by the FDA. Furthermore, later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products, including unanticipated adverse events, manufacturer or manufacturing problems, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of the products from the market, voluntary or mandatory recall, fines, suspension of regulatory approvals, product seizures, injunctions, or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. Our Renova Cortical Stimulation System may never achieve market acceptance or adequate levels of reimbursement even if we obtain regulatory approvals. Market acceptance of our Renova Cortical Stimulation System will depend on successfully communicating the benefits of our cortical stimulation therapy to each of the four different constituencies involved in deciding whether to treat a particular patient using cortical stimulation therapy: • the various healthcare providers, such as neurosurgeons, neurologists and physiatrists, who treat stroke patients; • institutions such as hospitals and stroke rehabilitation centers, where the procedure and rehabilitative therapy would be performed, as well as opinion leaders in these institutions; • the stroke survivors, and their families; and • third party payors, such as private healthcare insurers and Medicare, which would ultimately bear most of the costs for the various providers and medical devices involved in the procedures. Marketing to each of these constituencies requires a different marketing approach, and we must convince each of these groups of the efficacy and utility of using our Renova Cortical Stimulation System to be successful. Our ability to market our system successfully to each of these constituencies will depend on a number of factors, including: • the perceived effectiveness and sustainability of the results of our therapy; • the level of education and awareness among physicians and potential patients concerning our system; • acceptance of the measures used to assess the efficacy of our system; • the price of our system and the associated costs of the surgical procedure and treatment; • the availability of sufficient third party coverage or reimbursement; • the frequency and severity of any side effects; • the willingness of patients to undergo surgery; and • the availability and perceived advantages and disadvantages of alternative treatments. If our system, or any other cortical stimulation therapy for other neurological diseases and disorders that we may develop, does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by the relevant constituencies, we may not generate significant product revenue and may not become profitable. If we fail to obtain adequate levels of reimbursement for our products by the government and other third party payors, there may be no commercially viable markets for our Renova Cortical Stimulation System or other products we may develop or our target markets may be much smaller than expected. The availability and levels of reimbursement by governmental and other third party payors, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs and private healthcare insurers, will substantially affect the markets for cortical stimulation therapy and our ability to commercialize our Renova Cortical Stimulation System. The efficacy, safety, ease of use and cost-effectiveness of our system and of any competing products will in part determine the 22 Table of Contents availability and level of reimbursement. In particular, we expect that securing reimbursement for our system will be more difficult if our EVEREST trial does not demonstrate a level of motor function improvement that healthcare providers, stroke institutions, and stroke survivors consider clinically meaningful, whether or not regulatory agencies consider the improvement of patients treated in clinical trials to have been clinically meaningful. Reimbursement also may be more difficult to obtain if payors view our system as adding to their costs because our therapy may be delivered to many stroke survivors who are not otherwise receiving a significant amount of reimbursed stroke-related treatment or therapy. Moreover, the novelty of cortical stimulation to treat patients will likely complicate the establishment of a uniform and favorable reimbursement policy. We expect that both government and third party payors will continue to attempt to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare by challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and services. If reimbursement for our Renova Cortical Stimulation System and the related surgery, hospital stay, and rehabilitative therapy is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, market acceptance of our system would be impaired and our future revenue, if any, would be materially and adversely affected. The manufacturing facilities of our suppliers must comply with applicable regulatory requirements. If these manufacturing facilities do not maintain or receive regulatory approval, our business and our results of operations would be harmed. Completion of our clinical trials and commercialization of our Renova Cortical Stimulation System require access to manufacturing facilities that meet applicable regulatory standards to manufacture a sufficient supply of our products. We rely solely on third parties to manufacture and assemble our system, and do not currently plan to manufacture or assemble any of our proposed products. The FDA must determine that compliance is satisfactory at facilities that manufacture and assemble our products intended for sale in the United States, as well as the manufacturing controls and specifications for the product. Suppliers of some components of our products must also comply with FDA and foreign regulatory requirements, which often requires significant time, money, and record-keeping and quality assurance efforts, and subjects us and our suppliers to potential regulatory inspections and stoppages. Our suppliers may not satisfy these requirements. If the FDA finds their compliance status to be unsatisfactory, completion of our clinical trials or our commercialization efforts could be delayed, which would harm our business and our results of operations. We depend on a limited number of manufacturers and single source suppliers of various critical components for our Renova Cortical Stimulation System. The loss of any of these manufacturer or supplier relationships could delay our clinical trials or prevent or delay commercialization of our Renova Cortical Stimulation System. We rely entirely on third parties to manufacture our Renova Cortical Stimulation System and to supply us with all of the critical components of our system, including our IPGs, cortical stimulation leads and handheld programmers. We have entered into multi-year agreements with our manufacturers and primary suppliers that generally require us to fulfill all of our manufacturing needs and purchase all of our worldwide requirements for components from these parties. These agreements run through April 2010 to August 2010. There is no overlap among these suppliers, insofar as we obtain each of our components from a single supplier. There are a limited number of alternative suppliers that are capable of manufacturing the components of our Renova Cortical Stimulation System, and the terms of our agreements significantly limit our ability to work with other suppliers to ensure backup sources of our components. If any of our existing suppliers was unable or unwilling to meet our demand for product components, or if the components or finished products that they supply do not meet quality and other specifications, our clinical trials could be delayed and the development and commercialization of our Renova Cortical Stimulation System could be delayed or prevented. If we have to switch to a replacement manufacturer or replacement supplier for any of our product components, we may face additional regulatory delays, and the manufacture and delivery of our cortical 23 Table of Contents stimulation system could be interrupted for an extended period of time, which could delay completion of our clinical trials or commercialization of our system. In addition, we may be required to obtain regulatory clearance from the FDA to use different suppliers or components. To date, our component requirements have consisted only of the limited quantities that we need to conduct our clinical trials. If we obtain market approval for our Renova Cortical Stimulation System, however, we anticipate that we will require substantially larger quantities of various components. Our suppliers may not provide us with sufficient quantities of necessary components in a timely manner that meet quality and other specifications, and we may not be able to locate an alternative supplier in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Establishing additional or replacement suppliers for these components may take a substantial amount of time, which could delay or prevent commercial launch of our system. We may also have difficulty obtaining similar components from other suppliers that are acceptable to the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities. We may not be successful in our efforts to utilize our cortical stimulation therapy in various applications. A key element of our business strategy is to develop a cortical stimulation technology platform for use in treating many neurological diseases and disorders. We are conducting research on other potential applications of our cortical stimulation therapy, including some that we believe are based on a mechanism of action different from that for stroke motor recovery. Research to identify new target applications requires substantial technical, financial, and human resources, whether or not any new applications for our cortical stimulation therapy are ultimately identified. We may be unable to identify or pursue other applications of our technology for many reasons, including the following: • the research methodology used may not be successful in identifying other potential applications; • competitors may develop alternatives, including nonsurgical alternatives, that render our cortical stimulation therapy obsolete for treating a particular neurological disease or disorder; • we may not be able to optimize the delivery of our cortical stimulation therapy in a manner that would effectively treat a particular neurological disease or disorder, if such optimization is even possible; • cortical stimulation therapy for certain neurological diseases or disorders may be shown to have harmful side effects or other characteristics that indicate it is unlikely to be effective; • cortical stimulation therapy may be ineffective in treating a sufficiently large patient population with a particular disorder to make further study cost-effective; and • our cortical stimulation therapy may not be suitable for certain other potential applications. Even if we identify a potential new application for our cortical stimulation therapy, investigating the safety and efficacy of our therapy requires extensive clinical testing, which is expensive and time-consuming. If we terminate a clinical trial in which we have invested significant resources, our prospects will suffer, as we will have expended resources on a program that will not provide a return on our investment and missed the opportunity to allocate those resources to potentially more productive uses. We will also need to obtain regulatory approval for these new applications, as well as achieve market acceptance and an acceptable level of reimbursement. Even if we obtain regulatory approval to commercialize our Renova Cortical Stimulation System, we will need to develop an infrastructure, or contract with a third party, capable of successfully marketing and selling our products. Even if we obtain approval to market our Renova Cortical Stimulation System, to generate sales we will need to develop a sales and marketing infrastructure or contract with a third party to perform that function. We do not currently have extensive marketing capabilities and have no sales capabilities. Establishing these capabilities would be expensive and time-consuming. We may be unable to develop an effective sales and marketing organization. If we contract with third parties to perform the sales and marketing function for us, our 24 Table of Contents profit margins would likely be lower than if we performed these functions ourselves. In addition, we would necessarily be relying on the skills and efforts of others for the successful marketing of our products. If we are unable to establish and maintain effective sales and marketing capabilities, independently or with others, we may not be able to generate product revenue and may not become profitable. We may need substantial additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. We believe that the cash, cash equivalents and investments, will be sufficient to fund our continuing operations and other demands and commitments through 2009. After, and possibly prior to, such date we may need or elect to raise substantial additional capital to: • continue our research and development programs; • commercialize our Renova Cortical Stimulation System, if approved by the FDA, for commercial sale; and • fund our operations generally. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the scope, rate of progress and cost of our clinical trials and other research and development activities; • clinical trial results; • the cost of filing and prosecuting patent applications and defending and enforcing our patent and other intellectual property rights; • the cost of defending, in litigation or otherwise, any claims that we infringe third party patent or other intellectual property rights; • the timing and cost of regulatory approvals; • the cost and timing of establishing sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; • the cost of establishing clinical and commercial supplies of our Renova Cortical Stimulation System and any other products that we may develop; • the rate of market acceptance of our Renova Cortical Stimulation System and any other future products; • the effect of competing products and market developments; • the working capital required for selling, general, and administrative expenses; • any revenue generated by sales of our planned and future products; and • the extent to which we acquire or invest in businesses, products and technologies. Until the time, if ever, when we can generate a sufficient amount of product revenue, we expect to finance our future cash needs through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or corporate collaboration, licensing arrangements, and grants, as well as through interest income earned on cash and investment balances. Additional capital may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our shareholders will experience dilution. Debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants or additional security interests in our assets. Examples of such restrictive covenants may include limitations on our ability to incur additional debt or liens on any of our assets, dispose of our property, make dividend payments or distributions to our shareholders, or enter into certain transactions that would result in a change in control of us. Any additional debt or equity financing may contain terms that are not favorable to our shareholders or us. If we raise additional funds through collaboration or licensing arrangements with third parties, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies or products, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are unable to raise adequate funds, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate some or all of, our development programs, or liquidate some or all of our assets. 25 Table of Contents The financial reporting obligations of being a public company place significant demands on our management. In addition, if we are unable to satisfy regulatory requirements relating to internal control over financial reporting, or if our internal control is not effective, our business and financial results may suffer. The obligations of being a public company, including substantial public reporting and auditing obligations, require significant additional expenditures, place additional demands on our management, and require the hiring of additional personnel. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the SEC rules and regulations implementing such act will require us to conduct an annual evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting, and have that evaluation attested to by our independent registered public accounting firm starting with our fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. This process will increase our legal and financial compliance costs, and make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly. If we fail to have an effectively designed and operating system of internal control, we may be unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner. The medical device industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. If our competitors are able to develop and market products that are safer or more effective than our products, our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated. The medical device industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. In particular, the neurostimulation industry in which we operate has grown significantly in recent years, and is expected to continue to expand as technology continues to evolve and awareness of neurostimulation as an effective or potential therapy for many applications expands. We face potential competition from competing neurostimulation technologies, off-label use of current technologies, and currently available, non-invasive, stroke therapies that are medically accepted for treating large populations of stroke survivors and for which reimbursement levels are or may be established. Many of our competitors in the field of neurostimulation devices have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing approved products than we do. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly if they pursue competing solutions through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. Our competitors may: • develop and patent processes or products earlier than us; • obtain regulatory approvals for competing products more rapidly than we are able to do so; and • develop more effective, safer, less invasive or less expensive products or technologies. The field of human therapeutics is characterized by large public and private investment in existing and new technologies, constant evolution and occasional breakthrough products that revolutionize treatment of a particular disease or disorder. It is possible that, even if we successfully commercialize a product, subsequent pharmaceutical or medical device breakthroughs would render our product non-competitive or obsolete. Some of the potential applications of our cortical stimulation therapy system will likely require sustained delivery of electrical stimulation, which involves additional risks. Some of the applications for our cortical stimulation therapy system that we are studying, such as tinnitus and major depressive disorder, will likely require a long-term implant and sustained delivery of electrical stimulation to the cortex. Long-term implants and sustained delivery of stimulation may involve additional challenges and risks, including the following: • the battery in our current IPG is not rechargeable, and replacing the IPG in patients may be necessary to support sustained electrical stimulation; 26 Table of Contents • the therapeutic effect on the patient may not be sustained; • the clinical trials necessary to support FDA approval of a long-term implantable device that delivers sustained electrical stimulation will likely take longer, and may require longer term follow-up data for such trials; and • the FDA may require additional data. We may be unable to attract and retain management and other personnel we need to succeed. Our success depends on the services of our senior management and other key research and development and clinical trial employees. The loss of the services of one or more of these employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. Each of our officers may terminate his or her employment without notice and without cause or good reason. We do not carry key person life insurance on any of our officers. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees. We cannot be certain that we will be able to do so. If we do not achieve our projected business goals in the time frames we announce and expect, our stock price may decline. From time to time, we estimate and publicly announce the anticipated timing of the accomplishment of various clinical, regulatory and product development goals. These statements, which are forward-looking statements, include our estimates regarding enrolling patients in our clinical trials, when we will complete our EVEREST trial or our other clinical trials, when we will submit our first premarket approval application, or PMA, to the FDA to seek regulatory approval to market our Renova Cortical Stimulation System, and when we will obtain FDA approval for or begin to receive revenue from any of our products. These estimates are and must necessarily be based on a variety of assumptions. The timing of the actual achievement of these milestones may vary dramatically compared to our estimates, in some cases for reasons beyond our control. Our failure to meet any publicly announced goals may be perceived negatively by the public markets, and, as a result, our stock price may decline. We face the risk of product liability claims and may not be able to obtain adequate insurance. Our business exposes us to a risk of product liability claims that is inherent in the testing, manufacturing, and marketing of medical devices. We may be subject to product liability claims if our Renova Cortical Stimulation System, or any other products we sell, causes, or appears to have caused, an injury. Claims may be made by consumers, healthcare providers, third party strategic collaborators or others selling our products. We have $10.0 million of product liability insurance, which covers the use of our products in our clinical trials, which amount we believe is appropriate. Our current product liability insurance may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, and, if available, the coverages may not be adequate to protect us against any future product liability claims. If we are unable to obtain insurance at an acceptable cost and on acceptable terms for an adequate coverage amount or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims, we could be exposed to significant liabilities, which may harm our business. A product liability claim, recall or other claim with respect to uninsured liabilities or for amounts in excess of insured liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These liabilities could prevent or interfere with our product commercialization efforts. Defending a suit, regardless of merit, could be costly, could divert management attention and might result in adverse publicity, which could result in the withdrawal of, or inability to recruit, clinical trial volunteers or result in reduced acceptance of our Renova Cortical Stimulation System in the market. We may be subject to product liability claims even if it appears that the claimed injury is due to the actions of others. For example, we rely on the expertise of surgeons, other physicians, therapists, and other medical personnel to perform the medical procedures to implant and remove our Renova Cortical Stimulation System and 27 Table of Contents to perform the related rehabilitative therapy. If these medical personnel are not properly trained or are negligent, the therapeutic effect of our system may be diminished or the patient may suffer critical injury, which may subject us to liability. In addition, an injury that is caused by the negligence of one of our suppliers in supplying us with a defective component that injures a patient could be the basis for a claim against us. We may be unable to manage our company’s growth effectively. Our business strategy entails significant future growth. For example, we will have to expand existing operations in order to conduct additional clinical trials, increase our contract manufacturing capabilities, hire and train new personnel to handle the marketing and sales of our products, assist patients in obtaining reimbursement for the use of our products, and create and develop new applications for our technology. Such growth may place significant strain on our management, financial and operational resources. Successful growth is also dependent upon our ability to implement appropriate financial and management controls, systems, and procedures. Our ability to effectively manage growth depends on our success in attracting and retaining highly qualified personnel, for which the competition may be intense. If we fail to manage these challenges effectively, our business could be harmed. Risks Related to Intellectual Property If we are unable to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights relating to our technology and cortical stimulation therapy system, the commercial value of our technology and any future products will be adversely affected and our competitive position will be harmed. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain protection in the United States and other countries for our cortical stimulation therapy system and processes by establishing and maintaining intellectual property rights relating to or incorporated into our technology and products. Our pending and future patent applications may not issue as patents or, if issued, may not issue in a form that will provide us any competitive advantage. Even if issued, existing or future patents may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products or limit the length of term of patent protection we may have for our products. Changes in patent laws or their interpretation in the United States and other countries could also diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. As a result, our patent portfolio may not provide us with sufficient rights to exclude others from commercializing products similar or identical to ours. In order to preserve and enforce our patent and other intellectual property rights, we may need to make claims or file lawsuits against third parties. This can entail significant costs to us and divert our management’s attention from developing and commercializing our products. If we infringe or are alleged to infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, our business could be adversely affected. Our cortical stimulation therapy may infringe or be claimed to infringe patents that we do not own or license, including patents that may issue in the future based on patent applications of which we are currently aware, as well as applications of which we are unaware. For example, we are aware of other companies that are investigating neurostimulation, including cortical stimulation, and of patents and published patent applications held by these companies in those fields. While the applicability of such patents and patent applications to our products and technologies under development and validity of these patents and patent applications are uncertain, third parties who own or control these patents and patent applications in the United States and abroad could bring claims against us that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, could cause us to pay substantial damages and would divert management’s attention. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us, we could be forced to stop our ongoing or planned clinical trials, or delay or abandon commercialization of the product that is the subject of the suit. As a result of patent infringement claims, or to avoid potential claims, we may choose or be required to seek a license from the third party and be required to pay license fees or royalties, or both. These licenses may not be 28 Table of Contents available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which could result in our competitors gaining access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, we are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. This could harm our business significantly. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and products could be adversely affected. In addition to patented technology, we rely on our unpatented proprietary technology, trade secrets, processes, and know-how. We generally seek to protect this information by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, scientific advisors and third parties. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. To the extent that our employees, consultants or contractors use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our principal shareholders and management own a significant percentage of our stock and will be able to exercise significant influence over our affairs. Our executive officers, current directors and holders of five percent or more of our common stock own a significant portion of our common stock. These shareholders significantly influence the composition of our board of directors, retain the voting power to approve some matters requiring shareholder approval and continue to have significant influence over our operations. The interests of these shareholders may be different than the interests of other shareholders on these matters. This concentration of ownership could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could reduce the price of our common stock. If our stock price is volatile, purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. Our stock price is likely to be volatile. The stock market in general and the market for small healthcare companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: • results of our clinical trials; • delays in enrolling or conducting our ongoing clinical trials, or other developments concerning ongoing clinical trials; • delays in obtaining regulatory approvals for clinical trials or commercial marketing efforts; • failure of any of our future products, if approved for commercial sale, to achieve commercial success; • regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; • regulatory issues related to our quality systems; • developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; • ability to manufacture our products; • public concern over our products; • introduction of competing products; • litigation or other disputes with third parties; 29 Table of Contents • departure of key personnel; • sales or anticipated sales of our common stock; • variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us; • changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems; • investors’ perceptions of us; and • general economic, industry and market conditions. A decline in the market price of our common stock could cause investors to lose some or all of their investment and may adversely impact our ability to attract and retain employees and raise capital. In addition, shareholders may initiate securities class action lawsuits if the market price of our stock drops significantly, which may cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of our management. If there are substantial sales of common stock, our stock price could decline. If our existing shareholders sell a large number of shares of common stock or the public market perceives that existing shareholders might sell shares of common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. Anti-takeover defenses that we have in place could prevent or frustrate attempts to change our direction or management. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and applicable provisions of Washington law may make it more difficult or impossible for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions: • limit who may call a special meeting of shareholders; • provide for a classified board of directors; • provide that our board of directors may only be removed for cause by the affirmative vote of our shareholders; • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on at shareholder meetings; • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of our directors; and • provide our board of directors the ability to designate the terms of and issue a new series of preferred stock without shareholder approval. In addition, the Washington Business Corporation Act generally prohibits us from engaging in any business combination with certain persons who acquire 10% or more of our voting securities without the prior approval of our board of directors for a period of five years following the date such person acquires the shares. We cannot “opt out” of this statute. These provisions may have the effect of entrenching our management team and may deprive investors of the opportunity to sell their shares to potential acquirors at a premium over prevailing prices. This potential inability to obtain a control premium could reduce the price of our common stock. 30 Table of Contents 