D. RISK FACTORS Our assets are primarily engaged in offshore contract drilling for the oil and gas industry in benign and harsh environments worldwide, including ultra-deepwater environments. The following summarizes risks that may materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Unless otherwise indicated in this Annual Report, all information concerning our business and our assets is as of April 22, 2013. Risks Relating to Our Industry Our business in the offshore drilling sector depends on the level of activity in the offshore oil and gas industry, which is significantly affected by, among other things, volatile oil and gas prices, and may be materially and adversely affected by a decline in the offshore oil and gas industry. The offshore contract drilling industry is cyclical and volatile. Our business in the offshore drilling sector depends on the level of activity in oil and gas exploration, development and production in offshore areas worldwide. The availability of quality drilling prospects, exploration success, relative production costs, the stage of reservoir development and political and regulatory environments affect our customers' drilling programs. Oil and gas prices and market expectations of potential changes in these prices also significantly affect this level of activity and demand for drilling units. Oil and gas prices are extremely volatile and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including the following: — worldwide production and demand for oil and gas; — the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and gas; — expectations regarding future energy prices; 2 — advances in exploration, development and production technology; — the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, to set and maintain levels and pricing; — the level of production in non-OPEC countries; — government regulations, including restrictions on offshore transportation of oil and natural gas; — local and international political, economic and weather conditions; — domestic and foreign tax policies; — development and exploitation of alternative fuels; — the policies of various governments regarding exploration and development of their oil and gas reserves; — accidents, severe weather, natural disasters and other similar incidents relating to the oil and gas industry; and — the worldwide political and military environment, including uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities or other crises in the Middle East or other geographic areas or further acts of terrorism in the United States, or elsewhere. Declines in oil and gas prices for an extended period of time, or market expectations of potential decreases in these prices, could negatively affect our business in the offshore drilling sector. Sustained periods of low oil prices typically result in reduced exploration and drilling because oil and gas companies' capital expenditure budgets are subject to cash flow from such activities and are therefore sensitive to changes in energy prices. These changes in commodity prices can have a dramatic effect on rig demand, and periods of low demand can cause excess rig supply and intensify the competition in the industry which often results in drilling units, particularly older and less technologically-advanced drilling units, being idle for long periods of time. We cannot predict the future level of demand for our services or future conditions of the oil and gas industry. Any decrease in exploration, development or production expenditures by oil and gas companies could reduce our revenues and materially harm our business and results of operations. In addition to oil and gas prices, the offshore drilling industry is influenced by additional factors, including: — the availability of competing offshore drilling units; — the level of costs for associated offshore oilfield and construction services; — oil and gas transportation costs; — the level of rig operating costs, including crew and maintenance; — the discovery of new oil and gas reserves; — the cost of non-conventional hydrocarbons; and — regulatory restrictions on offshore drilling. Any of these factors could reduce demand for our services and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business and operations involve numerous operating hazards. Our operations are subject to hazards inherent in the drilling industry, such as blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of production, loss of well control, lost or stuck drill strings, equipment defects, punch-throughs, craterings, fires, explosions and pollution. Contract drilling and well servicing require the use of heavy equipment and exposure to hazardous conditions, which may subject us to liability claims by employees, customers and third parties. These hazards can cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, pollution or environmental damage, claims by third parties or customers and suspension of operations. Our offshore fleet is also subject to hazards inherent in marine operations, either while on-site or during mobilization, such as capsizing, sinking, grounding, collision, damage from severe weather and marine life infestations. Operations may also be suspended because of machinery breakdowns, abnormal drilling conditions, failure of subcontractors to perform or supply goods or services or personnel shortages. We customarily provide contract indemnity to our customers for claims that could be asserted by us relating to damage to or loss of our equipment, including rigs and claims that could be asserted by us or our employees relating to personal injury or loss of life. 3 Damage to the environment could also result from our operations, particularly through spillage of fuel, lubricants or other chemicals and substances used in drilling operations, or extensive uncontrolled fires. We may also be subject to property, environmental and other damage claims by oil and gas companies. Our insurance policies and contractual rights to indemnity may not adequately cover losses, and we do not have insurance coverage or rights to indemnity for all risks. Consistent with standard industry practice, our clients generally assume, and indemnify us against, well control and subsurface risks under daily rates contracts. These are risks associated with the loss of control of a well, such as blowout or cratering, the cost to regain control of or re-drill the well and associated pollution. However, there can be no assurances that these clients will be willing or financially able to indemnify us against all these risks. In addition, a court may decide that certain indemnities in our current or future contracts are not enforceable. For example, in 2012, a U.S. District Court in the Eastern District of Louisiana invalidated certain contractual indemnities for punitive damages and for civil penalties under the U.S. Clean Water Act under a drilling contract governed by U.S. maritime law as a matter of public policy. We maintain insurance coverage for property damage, occupational injury and illness, and general and marine third-party liabilities (except as described below with respect to drilling units and equipment in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, "GOM"). However, pollution and environmental risks generally are not totally insurable. We maintain a portion of deductibles for damage to our offshore drilling equipment and third-party liabilities. With respect to hull and machinery we currently maintain a deductible per occurrence of $5 million for all of our fleet, except for tender barges, for which it is $1 million. However, in the event of a total loss or a constructive total loss of a drilling unit, such loss is fully covered by our insurance with no deductible. For general and marine third-party liabilities we generally maintain up to $25,000 deductible per occurrence on personal injury liability for crew claims as well as non-crew claims and per occurrence on third-party property damage, except for our drilling units operating in the U.S. GOM where the deductible is $500,000 per occurrence. If a significant accident or other event occurs that is not fully covered by our insurance or an enforceable or recoverable indemnity from a client, the occurrence could adversely affect our consolidated statement of financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The amount of our insurance may also be less than the related impact on enterprise value after a loss. Our insurance coverage will not in all situations provide sufficient funds to protect us from all liabilities that could result from our drilling operations. Our coverage includes annual aggregate policy limits. As a result, we retain the risk through self-insurance for any losses in excess of these limits. Any such lack of reimbursement may cause us to incur substantial costs. In addition, we could decide to retain more risk through self-insurance in the future. This self-insurance results in a higher risk of losses, which could be material, that are not covered by third party insurance contracts. Specifically, we have elected to self-insure for physical damage to rigs and equipment caused by named windstorms in the U.S. GOM due to the substantial costs associated with such coverage. If such windstorms cause significant damage to any rig and equipment we have in the U.S. GOM, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Moreover, no assurance can be made that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates that we consider reasonable, or obtain insurance against certain risks. As of the date of this Annual Report, all of the drilling units that we owned or operated were covered by existing insurance policies. An over-supply of offshore drilling units may lead to a reduction in daily rates and therefore may materially impact our revenues and profitability. During the recent period of high utilization and high daily rates, industry participants have increased the supply of drilling units by ordering construction of new drilling units. Historically, this has resulted in an over-supply of drilling units and has caused a subsequent decline in utilization and daily rates when the drilling units have entered the market, sometimes for extended periods of time until the new units have been absorbed into the active fleet. The worldwide fleet of ultra-deepwater drilling units consisted of 128 rigs, including 64 semi-submersible rigs and 64 drillships as of April 22, 2013. An additional 14 semi-submersible rigs and 70 drillships are under construction or on order, which would bring the total fleet to 212 units. A relatively large number of the drilling units currently under construction have not been contracted for future work, which may intensify price competition as scheduled delivery dates occur and lead to a reduction in daily rates as the active fleet grows. Lower utilization and daily rates could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Prolonged periods of low utilization and daily rates could also result in the recognition of impairment charges on our drilling units if future cash flow estimates, based on information available to management at the time, indicate that the carrying value of these drilling units may not be recoverable. 4 The market value of our current drilling units and those we acquire in the future may decrease, which could cause us to incur losses if we decide to sell them following a decline in their market values. If the offshore contract drilling industry suffers adverse developments in the future, the fair market value of our drilling units may decline. The fair market value of the drilling units that we currently own, or may acquire in the future, may increase or decrease depending on a number of factors, including: — general economic and market conditions affecting the offshore contract drilling industry, including competition from other offshore contract drilling companies; — types, sizes and ages of drilling units; — supply and demand for drilling units; — costs of newbuildings; — prevailing level of drilling services contract daily rates; — governmental or other regulations; and — technological advances. If we sell any drilling unit at a time when prices for drilling units have fallen, such a sale may result in a loss. Such a loss could materially and adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Consolidation of suppliers may increase the cost of obtaining supplies, or restrict our ability to obtain needed supplies, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We rely on certain third parties to provide supplies and services necessary for our offshore drilling operations, including but not limited to drilling equipment suppliers, caters and machinery suppliers. Recent mergers have reduced the number of available suppliers, resulting in fewer alternatives for sourcing key supplies. With respect to certain items, such as blow-out preventers, or BOPs, we are dependent on the original equipment manufacturer for repair and replacement of the item or its spare parts. For instance, we experienced an interruption of operations in early 2013 as a result of a defective batch of connector bolts procured by a supplier of BOP equipment, and the only source of approved replacement bolts was that same supplier. Such consolidation, combined with a high volume of drilling units under construction, may result in a shortage of supplies and services thereby increasing the cost of supplies and/or potentially inhibiting the ability of suppliers to deliver on time. These cost increases or delays could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and result in rig downtime, and delays in the repair and maintenance of our drilling rigs. 5 Our international operations in the offshore drilling sector involve additional risks, which could adversely affect our business. We operate in various regions throughout the world. As a result of our international operations, we may be exposed to political and other uncertainties, including risks of: — terrorist acts, armed hostilities, war and civil disturbances; — acts of piracy, which have historically affected ocean-going vessels, trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea and in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia and which have increased significantly in frequency since 2008, particularly in the Gulf of Aden and off the west coast of Africa; — significant governmental influence over many aspects of local economies; — seizure, nationalization or expropriation of property or equipment; — repudiation, nullification, modification or renegotiation of contracts; — limitations on insurance coverage, such as war risk coverage, in certain areas; — political unrest; — foreign and U.S. monetary policy and foreign currency fluctuations and devaluations; — the inability to repatriate income or capital; — complications associated with repairing and replacing equipment in remote locations; — import-export quotas, wage and price controls, imposition of trade barriers; — U.S. and foreign sanctions or trade embargoes; — regulatory or financial requirements to comply with foreign bureaucratic actions; — changing taxation policies, including confiscatory taxation; — other forms of government regulation and economic conditions that are beyond our control; and — governmental corruption. In addition, international contract drilling operations are subject to various laws and regulations of the countries in which we operate, including laws and regulations relating to: — the equipping and operation of drilling units; — repatriation of foreign earnings and exchange controls; — oil and gas exploration and development; — taxation of offshore earnings and the earnings of expatriate personnel; and — use and compensation of local employees and suppliers by foreign contractors. Some foreign governments favor or effectively require (i) the awarding of drilling contracts to local contractors or to drilling rigs owned by their own citizens, (ii) the use of a local agent or (iii) foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. These practices may adversely affect our ability to compete in those regions. It is difficult to predict what governmental regulations may be enacted in the future that could adversely affect the international drilling industry. The actions of foreign governments, including initiatives by OPEC, may adversely affect our ability to compete. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including those relating to sanctions and export restrictions, may subject us to criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions or seizures of assets. 6 If our drilling units are located in countries that are subject to economic sanctions or other operating restrictions imposed by the U.S. or other governments, our reputation and the market for our common stock could be adversely affected. In 2010, the U.S. enacted the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions Accountability and Divestment Act or CISADA, which expanded the scope of the former Iran Sanctions Act. Among other things, CISADA expands the application of the prohibitions to non-U.S. companies, such as our Company, and introduces limits on the ability of companies and persons to do business or trade with Iran when such activities relate to the investment, supply or export of refined petroleum or petroleum products. On August 10, 2012, the U.S. signed into law the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, or the Iran Threat Reduction Act, which places further restrictions on the ability of non U.S. companies to do business or trade with Iran and Syria. Perhaps the most significant provision in the Iran Threat Reduction Act is that prohibitions in the existing Iran sanctions applicable to U.S. persons will now apply to any foreign entity owned or controlled by a U.S. person (essentially making the U.S. sanctions against Iran as expansive as U.S. sanctions against Cuba). These new sanctions were codified within the Iranian Transactions Regulations on or about December 26, 2012. However, we do not believe this provision is applicable to us, as we are primarily owned and controlled by non U.S. persons. The other major provision in the Iran Threat Reduction Act is that issuers of securities must disclose to the SEC in their annual and quarterly reports filed after February 6, 2013 if the issuer or "any affiliate" has "knowingly" engaged in certain sanctioned activities involving Iran during the timeframe covered by the report. The disclosure must describe the nature and extent of the activity in detail and the SEC will publish the disclosure on its website. The President of the U.S. must then initiate an investigation and determine whether sanctions on the issuer or its affiliate will be imposed. Such negative publicity and the possibility that sanctions could be imposed would present a risk for any issuer that is knowingly engaged in sanctioned conduct or that has an affiliate that is knowingly engaged in such conduct. At this time, we are not aware of any violative activity, conducted by ourselves or by any affiliate, that is likely to trigger an SEC disclosure requirement. Sanctions affecting non-U.S. companies like us were expanded yet again under the 2013 National Defense Authorization Act, with the passage of the Iran Freedom and Counter-Proliferation Act, and we believe that these sanctions will continue to become more restrictive for the foreseeable future. In addition to the sanctions against Iran, U.S. law continues to restrict U.S. owned or controlled entities from doing business with Cuba and various U.S. sanctions have certain other extraterritorial effects that need to be considered by non U.S. companies. Moreover, any U.S. persons who serve as officers, directors or employees of our subsidiaries would be fully subject to U.S. sanctions. It should also be noted that other governments are more frequently implementing versions of U.S. sanctions. We do not currently have any drilling contracts or plans to initiate any drilling contracts involving operations in countries or with government controlled entities that are subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government and/or identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism. However, from time to time, we may enter into drilling contracts with countries or government-controlled entities that are subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government and/or identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism where entering into such contracts would not violate U.S. law, or may enter into drilling contracts involving operations in countries or with government-controlled entities that are subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S government and/or identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism. However, this could negatively affect our ability to obtain investors. In some cases, U.S. investors would be prohibited from investing in an arrangement in which the proceeds could directly or indirectly be transferred to a sanctioned entity. Moreover, even in cases where the investment would not violate U.S. law, potential investors could view such drilling contracts negatively, which could adversely affect our reputation and the market for our shares. As stated above, we believe that we are in compliance with all applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations, and intend to maintain such compliance. However, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future, particularly as the scope of certain laws may be unclear and may be subject to changing interpretations. Any such violation could result in fines or other penalties and could result in some investors deciding, or being required, to divest their interest, or not to invest, in our shares. Additionally, some investors may decide to divest their interest, or not to invest, in our shares simply because we may do business with companies that do business in sanctioned countries. Moreover, our drilling contracts may violate applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations as a result of actions that do not involve us, or our drilling rigs, and those violations could in turn negatively affect our reputation. Investor perception of the value of our shares may also be adversely affected by the consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest and governmental actions in these and surrounding countries. Our ability to operate our drilling units in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico could be restricted by governmental regulation. Hurricanes Ivan, Katrina, Rita, Gustav and Ike caused damage to a number of drilling units unaffiliated to us in the Gulf of Mexico, or GOM. The Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement, or BOEMRE, formerly the Minerals Management Service of the U.S. Department of the Interior, effective October 1, 2011, reorganized into two new organizations, the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, or BOEM, and the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, or BSEE, and issued guidelines for tie-downs on drilling units and permanent equipment and facilities attached to outer continental shelf production platforms, and moored drilling unit fitness that apply through the 2013 hurricane season. These guidelines effectively impose new requirements on the offshore oil and natural gas industry in an attempt to increase the likelihood of survival of offshore drilling units during a hurricane. The guidelines also provide for enhanced information and data requirements from oil and natural gas companies that operate properties in the U.S. GOM region of the Outer Continental Shelf. BOEM and BSEE may issue similar guidelines for future hurricane seasons and may take other steps that could increase the cost of operations or reduce the area of operations for our ultra-deepwater drilling units, thereby reducing their marketability. Implementation of new guidelines or regulations that may apply to ultra-deepwater drilling units may subject us to increased costs and limit the operational capabilities of our drilling units, although such risks to the extent possible should rest with our clients. 7 We currently do not have any jack-up rigs or moored drilling units operating in the U.S. GOM. However, we do have two ultra-deepwater semi-submersible drilling rigs contracted for operations in the U.S. GOM that are self-propelled and equipped with thrusters and other machinery, which enable the rig to move between drilling locations and remain in position while drilling without the need for anchors. Furthermore we have three ultra-deepwater drillships contracted for operations in the Mexican part of the GOM. Public health threats could have an adverse effect on our operations and our financial results. Public health threats, such as swine flu, bird flu, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome and other highly communicable diseases, outbreaks of which have already occurred in various parts of the world in which we operate, could adversely impact our operations, the operations of our customers and the global economy, including the worldwide demand for oil and gas and, ultimately, the level of demand for our services. Any of these public health threats could adversely affect our financial results. Fluctuations in exchange rates and non-convertibility of currencies could result in losses to us. As a result of our international operations, we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates due to revenues being received and operating expenses paid in currencies other than U.S. dollars. Accordingly, we may experience currency exchange losses if we have not fully hedged our exposure to a foreign currency, or if revenues are received in currencies that are not readily convertible. We may also be unable to collect revenues because of a shortage of convertible currency available to the country of operation, controls over currency exchange or controls over the repatriation of income or capital. We use the U.S. dollar as our functional currency because the majority of our revenues and expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars. Accordingly, our reporting currency is also U.S. dollars. We do, however, earn revenues and incur expenses in other currencies and there is a risk that currency fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our statements of operations and cash flows. Governmental laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, may add to our costs or limit our drilling activity. Our business in the offshore drilling industry is affected by laws and regulations relating to the energy industry and the environment in the geographic areas where we operate. The offshore drilling industry is dependent on demand for services from the oil and gas exploration and production industry, and, accordingly, we are directly affected by the adoption of laws and regulations that, for economic, environmental or other policy reasons, curtail exploration and development drilling for oil and gas. We may be required to make significant capital expenditures to comply with governmental laws and regulations. It is also possible that these laws and regulations may, in the future, add significantly to our operating costs or significantly limit drilling activity. Our ability to compete in international contract drilling markets may be limited by foreign governmental regulations that favor or require the awarding of contracts to local contractors or by regulations requiring foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. Governments in some countries are increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of concessions, the exploration for oil and gas, and other aspects of the oil and gas industries. Offshore drilling in certain areas has been curtailed and, in certain cases, prohibited because of concerns over protection of the environment. Operations in less developed countries can be subject to legal systems that are not as mature or predictable as those in more developed countries, which can lead to greater uncertainty in legal matters and proceedings. 8 To the extent new laws are enacted or other governmental actions are taken that prohibit or restrict offshore drilling or impose additional environmental protection requirements that result in increased costs to the oil and gas industry, in general, or the offshore drilling industry, in particular, our business or prospects could be materially adversely affected. The operation of our drilling units will require certain governmental approvals, the number and prerequisites of which cannot be determined until we identify the jurisdictions in which we will operate on securing contracts for the drilling units. Depending on the jurisdiction, these governmental approvals may involve public hearings and costly undertakings on our part. We may not obtain such approvals or such approvals may not be obtained in a timely manner. If we fail to timely secure the necessary approvals or permits, our customers may have the right to terminate or seek to renegotiate their drilling contracts to our detriment. The amendment or modification of existing laws and regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations curtailing or further regulating exploratory or development drilling and production of oil and gas could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Future earnings may be negatively affected by compliance with any such new legislation or regulations. We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations in the form of international conventions and treaties, national, state and local laws and national and international regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which our drilling units operate or are registered, which can significantly affect the ownership and operation of our drilling units. These requirements include, but are not limited to, the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, or MARPOL, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 1969, generally referred to as CLC, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Bunker Oil Pollution Damage, or Bunker Convention, the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA, the U.S. Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, and Brazil's National Environmental Policy Law (6938/81), Environmental Crimes Law (9605/98) and Law 9966/2000 relating to pollution in Brazilian waters. Compliance with such laws, regulations and standards, where applicable, may require installation of costly equipment or operational changes and may affect the resale value or useful lifetime of our drilling units. We may also incur additional costs in order to comply with other existing and future regulatory obligations, including, but not limited to, costs relating to air emissions, including greenhouse gases, the management of ballast waters, maintenance and inspection, development and implementation of emergency procedures and insurance coverage or other financial assurance of our ability to address pollution incidents. These costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations. Environmental laws often impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject us to liability without regard to whether we were negligent or at fault. Under OPA, for example, owners, operators and bareboat-charterers are jointly and severally strictly liable for the discharge of oil in U.S. waters, including the 200-nautical mile exclusive economic zone around the United States. An oil spill could result in significant liability, including fines, penalties and criminal liability and remediation costs for natural resource damages under other international and U.S. federal, state and local laws, as well as third-party damages. We are required to satisfy insurance and financial responsibility requirements for potential oil (including marine fuel) spills and other pollution incidents and our insurance may not be sufficient to cover all such risks. As a result, claims against us could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Although our drilling units are separately owned by our subsidiaries, under certain circumstances a parent company and all of the unit-owning affiliates in a group under common control engaged in a joint venture could be held liable for damages or debts owed by one of the affiliates, including liabilities for oil spills under OPA or other environmental laws. Therefore, it is possible that we could be subject to liability upon a judgment against us or any one of our subsidiaries. Our drilling units could cause the release of oil or hazardous substances, especially as our drilling units age. Any releases may be large in quantity, above our permitted limits or occur in protected or sensitive areas where public interest groups or governmental authorities have special interests. Any releases of oil or hazardous substances could result in fines and other costs to us, such as costs to upgrade our drilling rigs, clean up the releases, and comply with more stringent requirements in our discharge permits. Moreover, these releases may result in our customers or governmental authorities suspending or terminating our operations in the affected area, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. 9 If we are able to obtain from our customers some degree of contractual indemnification against pollution and environmental damages in our contracts, such indemnification may not be enforceable in all instances or the customer may not be financially able to comply with its indemnity obligations in all cases, and we may not be able to obtain such indemnification agreements in the future. In addition, a court may decide that certain indemnities in our current or future contracts are not enforceable. For example, in 2012, a U.S. District Court in the Eastern District of Louisiana invalidated certain contractual indemnities for punitive damages and for civil penalties under the U.S. Clean Water Act under a drilling contract governed by U.S. maritime law as a matter of public policy. Our insurance coverage may not be available in the future, or we may not obtain certain insurance coverage. Even if insurance is available and we have obtained the coverage, it may not be adequate to cover our liabilities or our insurance underwriters may be unable to pay compensation if a significant claim should occur. Any of these scenarios could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Climate change and regulation of greenhouse gases could have a negative impact on our business. Due to concern over the risk of climate change, a number of countries and the United Nations' International Maritime Organization, or IMO, have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Currently, the emissions of greenhouse gases from international shipping are not subject to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which entered into force in 2005 and pursuant to which adopting countries have been required to implement national programs to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. However, in July 2011 the IMO's Maritime Environment Protection Committee, or MEPC, adopted two new sets of mandatory requirements to address greenhouse gas emissions from ships that will enter into force in January 2013. Currently operating ships will be required to develop Ship Energy Efficiency Management Plans, and minimum energy efficiency levels per capacity mile will apply to new ships. These requirements could cause us to incur additional compliance costs. The IMO is also considering the development of market-based mechanisms to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from ships. In April 2013, the European Union Parliament rejected proposed changes to the European Union Emissions law regarding carbon trading. The European Union is still considering expansion of the existing European Union emissions trading scheme to include emissions of greenhouse gases from marine vessels, including drilling units, and in January 2012, the European Commission launched a public consultation on possible measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from ships. In the United States, the EPA has issued a finding that greenhouse gases endanger the public health and safety and has adopted regulations to limit greenhouse gas emissions from certain mobile sources and large stationary sources. Although the mobile source emissions regulations do not apply to greenhouse gas emissions from drilling units, such regulation of drilling units is foreseeable, and the EPA has in recent years received petitions from the California Attorney General and various environmental groups seeking such regulation. Compliance with changes in laws, regulations and obligations relating to climate change could increase our costs related to operating and maintaining our assets, and might also require us to install new emission controls, acquire allowances or pay taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions, or administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. Additionally, adverse effects upon the oil and gas industry relating to climate change, including growing public concern about the environmental impact of climate change, may also adversely affect demand for our services. For example, increased regulation of greenhouse gases or other concerns relating to climate change may reduce the demand for oil and gas in the future or create greater incentives for use of alternative energy sources. Any long-term material adverse effect on the oil and gas industry could have a significant financial and operational adverse impact on our business. The aftermath of the moratorium on offshore drilling in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, and new regulations adopted as a result of the investigation into the Macondo well blowout, could negatively impact us. In the near-term aftermath of the Deepwater Horizon Incident, in which we were not involved, that led to the Macondo well blow out situation, the U.S. government on May 30, 2010 imposed a six-month moratorium on certain drilling activities in water deeper than 500 feet in the U.S. GOM and subsequently implemented Notices to Lessees 2010-N05 and 2010 N-06, providing enhanced safety requirements applicable to all drilling activity in the U.S. GOM, including drilling activities in water shallower than 500 feet. On October 12, 2010, the U.S. government lifted the moratorium subject to compliance with the requirements set forth in Notices to Lessees 2010-N05 and 2010-N06. Additionally, all drilling in the U.S. GOM must comply with the Interim Final Rule to Enhance Safety Measures for Energy Development on the Outer Continental Shelf (Drilling Safety Rule) and the Workplace Safety Rule on Safety and Environmental Management Systems. We continue to evaluate these new measures to ensure that our rigs and equipment are in full compliance, where applicable. As new standards and procedures are being integrated into the existing framework of offshore regulatory programs, we anticipate that there may be increased costs associated with regulatory compliance and delays in obtaining permits for other operations such as recompletions, workovers and abandonment activities. 10 Additional requirements could be forthcoming based on further recommendations by regulatory agencies investigating the Macondo incident. We are not able to predict the likelihood, nature or extent of additional rulemaking or when the interim rules, or any future rules, could become final. The current and future regulatory environment in the U.S. GOM could impact the demand for drilling units in the U.S. GOM in terms of overall number of rigs in operations and the technical specification required for offshore rigs to operate in the U.S. GOM. It is possible that short-term potential migration of rigs from the U.S. GOM could adversely impact dayrates levels and fleet utilization in other regions. Additional governmental regulations concerning licensing, taxation, equipment specifications, training requirements or other matters could increase the costs of our operations, and escalating costs borne by our customers, along with permitting delays, could reduce exploration and development activity in the U.S. GOM and, therefore, reduce demand for our services. In addition, insurance costs across the industry are expected to increase as a result of the Macondo incident and, in the future, certain insurance coverage is likely to become more costly, and may become less available or not available at all. We cannot predict if the U.S. government will issue new drilling permits in a timely manner, nor can we predict the potential impact of new regulations that may be forthcoming as the investigation into the Macondo well incident continues. Nor can we predict if implementation of additional regulations might subject us to increased costs of operating and/or a reduction in the area of operation in the U.S. GOM. As such, our cash flow and financial position could be adversely affected if our two ultra-deepwater drilling rigs in the U.S. GOM were subject to the risks mentioned above. We cannot guarantee that the use of our drilling units will not infringe the intellectual property rights of others. The majority of the intellectual property rights relating to our drilling units and related equipment are owned by our suppliers. In the event that one of our suppliers becomes involved in a dispute over infringement of intellectual property rights relating to equipment owned by us, we may lose access to repair services, replacement parts, or could be required to cease use of some equipment. In addition, our competitors may assert claims for infringement of intellectual property rights related to certain equipment on our drilling units and we may be required to stop using such equipment and/or pay damages and royalties for the use of such equipment. The consequences of technology disputes involving our suppliers or competitors could adversely affect our financial results and operations. We have provisions in some of our supply contracts to provide indemnity from the supplier against intellectual property lawsuits. However, we cannot be assured that these suppliers will be willing or financially able to honor their indemnity obligations, or guarantee that the indemnities will fully protect us from the adverse consequences of such technology disputes. We also have provisions in some of our client contracts to require the client to share some of these risks on a limited basis, but we cannot provide assurance that these provisions will fully protect us from the adverse consequences of such technology disputes. We may not be able to keep pace with the continual and rapid technological developments that characterize the market for our services, and our failure to do so may result in our loss of market share. The market for our services is characterized by continual and rapid technological developments that have resulted in, and will likely continue to result in, substantial improvements in equipment functions and performance. As a result, our future success and profitability will be dependent in part upon our ability to keep pace with technological developments. If we are not successful in acquiring new equipment or upgrading our existing equipment in a timely and cost-effective manner in response to technological developments or changes in standards in our industry, we could lose business and profits. In addition, current competitors or new market entrants may develop new technologies, services or standards that could render some of our services or equipment obsolete, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. 11 Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or the U.K. Bribery Act could result in fines, criminal penalties, drilling contract terminations and an adverse effect on our business. We currently operate, and historically have operated, our drilling units in a number of countries throughout the world, including some with developing economies. Also, the existence of state or government-owned shipbuilding enterprises puts us in contact with persons who may be considered "foreign officials" under the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, or the FCPA, and the Bribery Act 2010 of the United Kingdom, or the UK Bribery Act. We are committed to doing business in accordance with applicable anti-corruption laws and have adopted a code of business conduct and ethics which is consistent and in full compliance with the FCPA and UK Bribery Act. We are, however, subject to the risk that we or our affiliated companies or our or their respective officers, directors, employees or agents may take actions determined to be in violation of such anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA and the UK Bribery Act. Any such violation could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil and/or criminal penalties, curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions, and might adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, actual or alleged violations could damage our reputation and ability to do business. Furthermore, detecting, investigating and resolving actual or alleged violations is expensive and can consume significant time and attention of our senior management. In order to effectively compete in some foreign jurisdictions, we utilize local agents and/or establish joint ventures with local operators or strategic partners. All of these activities involve interaction by our agents with non U.S. government officials. Even though some of our agents and partners may not themselves be subject to the FCPA, the UK Bribery Act or other anti-bribery laws to which we may be subject, if our agents or partners make improper payments to non U.S. government officials in connection with engagements or partnerships with us, we could be investigated and potentially found liable for violation of such anti bribery laws and could incur civil and criminal penalties and other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operation. Acts of terrorism, piracy and political and social unrest could affect the markets for drilling services, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Acts of terrorism, piracy and political and social unrest, brought about by world political events or otherwise, have caused instability in the world's financial and insurance markets in the past and may occur in the future. Such acts could be directed against companies such as ours. Our drilling operations could also be targeted by acts of terrorism, piracy, or acts of vandalism or sabotage carried out by environmental activist groups. In addition, acts of terrorism and social unrest could lead to increased volatility in prices for crude oil and natural gas and could affect the markets for drilling services and result in lower daily rates. Insurance premiums could increase and coverage may be unavailable in the future. Any failure to comply with the complex laws and regulations governing international trade could adversely affect our operations. The shipment of goods, services and technology across international borders subjects our offshore drilling segment to extensive trade laws and regulations. Import activities are governed by unique customs laws and regulations in each of the countries of operation. Moreover, many countries, including the United States, control the export and re-export of certain goods, services and technology and impose related export recordkeeping and reporting obligations. Governments also may impose economic sanctions against certain countries, persons and other entities that may restrict or prohibit transactions involving such countries, persons and entities. U.S. sanctions in particular are targeted against countries (such as Cuba, Iran, Sudan and Syria, among others) that are heavily involved in the petroleum and petrochemical industries, which includes drilling activities. The laws and regulations concerning import activity, export recordkeeping and reporting, export control and economic sanctions are complex and constantly changing. These laws and regulations may be enacted, amended, enforced or interpreted in a manner materially impacting our operations. Shipments can be delayed and denied export or entry for a variety of reasons, some of which are outside our control and some of which may result from failure to comply with existing legal and regulatory regimes. Shipping delays or denials could cause unscheduled operational downtime. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory trading obligations could also result in criminal and civil penalties and sanctions, such as fines, imprisonment, debarment from government contracts, seizure of shipments and loss of import and export privileges. 12 We may be subject to litigation, arbitration and other proceedings that could have an adverse effect on us. We are currently involved in various litigation matters, none of which we expect to have a material adverse effect on us. We anticipate that we will be involved in litigation matters from time to time in the future. The operating hazards inherent in our business expose us to litigation, including personal injury litigation, environmental litigation, contractual litigation with clients, intellectual property litigation, tax or securities litigation, and maritime lawsuits, including the possible arrest of our drilling units. We cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any claim or other litigation matter, or a combination of these. If we are involved in any future litigation, or if our positions concerning current disputes are found to be incorrect, this may have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and ability to pay dividends, because of potential negative outcomes, the costs associated with asserting our claims or defending such lawsuits, and the diversion of management's attention to these matters. Risks Relating to Our Company The amount of our debt could limit our liquidity and flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. As of December 31, 2012, we had $11 billion in principal amount of interest bearing debt, representing approximately 62% of our total market capitalization. Our current indebtedness and future indebtedness that we may incur could affect our future operations, as a portion of our cash flow from operations will be dedicated to the payment of interest and principal on such debt and will not be available for other purposes. Covenants contained in our debt agreements require us to meet certain financial tests, which may affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in our business, may limit our ability to dispose of assets or place restrictions on the use of proceeds from such dispositions, withstand current or future economic or industry downturns and compete with others in our industry for strategic opportunities, and may limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate and other purposes. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations and to fund planned expenditures, including construction costs for our newbuilding projects, will be dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. Our future cash flows may be insufficient to meet all of our debt obligations and contractual commitments, and any insufficiency could negatively impact our business. To the extent that we are unable to repay our indebtedness as it becomes due or at maturity, we may need to refinance our debt, raise new debt, sell assets or repay the debt with the proceeds from equity offerings. Additional indebtedness or equity financing may not be available to us in the future for the refinancing or repayment of existing indebtedness, and we may not be able to complete asset sales in a timely manner sufficient to make such repayments. We may be unable to comply with covenants in our debt agreements or any future financial obligations that impose operating and financial restrictions on us. Our debt agreements impose, and future financial obligations may impose, operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions may prohibit or otherwise limit our ability to, among other things: — enter into other financing arrangements; — incur additional indebtedness; — create or permit liens on our assets; — sell our drilling units or the shares of our subsidiaries; — make investments; — change the general nature of our business; — pay dividends to our shareholders; — change the management and/or ownership of the drilling units; 13 — make capital expenditures; and — compete effectively to the extent our competitors are subject to less onerous restrictions. If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and the financial covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness, there could be a default under the terms of these agreements, which could accelerate our repayment of funds that we have borrowed. If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness or in current or future debt financing agreements, there could be a default under the terms of those agreements. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants, including meeting financial ratios and tests, is dependent on our future performance and may be affected by events beyond our control. In addition, if we are required to deconsolidate Seadrill Partners or any other significant subsidiary, or otherwise make a significant change in accounting policy, this may result in a violation of these restrictions and covenants as of the date of the change in accounting policy. If a default occurs under these agreements, lenders could terminate their commitments to lend or accelerate the outstanding loans and declare all amounts borrowed due and payable. We pledge our drilling units as security for our indebtedness. If our lenders were to foreclose their liens on our drilling units in the event of a default, this may impair our ability to continue our operations. As of December 31, 2012, we had $8.9 billion of interest bearing debt secured by, among other things, liens on our drilling units. In addition, all of our loan agreements contain cross-default provisions, meaning that if we are in default under one of our loan agreements, amounts outstanding under our other loan agreements may also be accelerated and become due and payable. If any of these events occur, we cannot guarantee that our assets will be sufficient to repay in full all of our outstanding indebtedness, and we may be unable to find alternative financing. Even if we could obtain alternative financing, that financing might not be on terms that are favorable or acceptable. We rely on a small number of customers. Our contract drilling business is subject to the risks associated with having a limited number of customers for our services. As of December 31, 2012, our five largest customers accounted for approximately 59% of our future contracted revenues, or backlog. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if any of our major customers failed to compensate us for our services, were to terminate our contracts with or without cause, failed to renew its existing contracts or refused to award new contracts to us and we are unable to enter into contracts with new customers at comparable daily rates. We are exposed to the credit risks of our key customers and certain other third parties, and non-payment by these customers and other parties could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to risks of loss resulting from non-payment or non-performance by our customers and certain other third parties. Some of these customers and other parties may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. If any key customers or other parties default on their obligations to us, our financial results and condition could be adversely affected. Any material nonpayment or nonperformance by these entities, other key customers or certain other third parties could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Newbuilding projects and surveys are subject to risks that could cause delays or cost overruns. As of December 31, 2012, we had an outstanding newbuilding order book with various yards for an additional 19 drilling units with corresponding contractual yard commitments totaling $5.6 billion. Since then, we have ordered four jack-up rigs, increasing our contracted yard commitments to $6.5 billion. These construction projects are subject to risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project from numerous factors, including shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor, unscheduled delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment or shipyard construction, failure of equipment to meet quality and/or performance standards, financial or operating difficulties experienced by equipment vendors or the shipyard, unanticipated actual or purported change orders, inability to obtain required permits or approvals, unanticipated cost increases between order and delivery, design or engineering changes and work stoppages and other labor disputes, adverse weather conditions or any other events of force majeure. Significant cost overruns or delays could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, failure to complete a project on time may result in the delay of revenue from that rig. New drilling rigs may experience start-up difficulties following delivery or other unexpected operational problems that could result in uncompensated downtime, which also could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows or the cancellation or termination of drilling contracts. 14 Failure to secure a drilling contract prior to delivery of our newbuilding drilling rigs could adversely affect our results of operations. We have entered into agreements with various shipbuilding yards in Singapore, South Korea and China for the construction of 23 new drilling rigs consisting of drillships, semi-submersible rigs, tender barges and jack-up rigs. We have not yet secured drilling contracts on 11 of these newbuilding rigs. Historically, the industry has at times experienced prolonged periods of overcapacity, during which many rigs were idle for long periods of time. Our failure to secure a drilling contract for any of these newbuilding rigs prior to their delivery could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. Some of our offshore drilling contracts may be terminated early due to certain events. Some of our customers have the right to terminate their drilling contracts upon the payment of an early termination fee. However, such payments may not fully compensate us for the loss of the contract. Under certain circumstances our contracts may permit customers to terminate contracts early without the payment of any termination fees, as a result of non-performance, longer periods of downtime or impaired performance caused by equipment or operational issues, or sustained periods of downtime due to force majeure events beyond our control. In addition, national oil company customers may have special termination rights by law. During periods of challenging market conditions, we may be subject to an increased risk of our clients seeking to repudiate their contracts, including through claims of non-performance. Our customers' ability to perform their obligations under their drilling contracts with us may also be negatively impacted by the prevailing uncertainty surrounding the development of the world economy and the credit markets. If our customers cancel some of our contracts, and we are unable to secure new contracts on a timely basis and on substantially similar terms, or if contracts are suspended for an extended period of time or if a number of our contracts are renegotiated, it could adversely affect our consolidated statement of financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The provisions of the majority of our offshore rig contracts that are term contracts at fixed daily rates may not permit us fully to recoup our costs in the event of a rise in our expenses. The majority of our drilling units are employed on long-term contracts. The average remaining contract length as of December 31, 2012, was 35 months for our floaters, 30 months for our tender rigs and 20 months for our jack-up rigs. The majority of these contracts have daily rates that are fixed over the contract term. In order to mitigate the effects of inflation on revenues from term contracts, most of our long-term contracts include escalation provisions. These provisions allow us to adjust the daily rates based on stipulated cost increases including wages, insurance and maintenance cost. However, actual cost increases may result from events or conditions that do not cause correlative changes to the applicable indices. Furthermore, certain indices are updated semi-annually, and therefore may be outdated at the time of adjustment. In addition, the adjustments are normally performed on a semi annual or annual basis. For these reasons, the timing and amount awarded as a result of such adjustments may differ from our actual cost increases, which could adversely affect our financial performance. Shorter term contracts normally do not contain escalation provisions. Our operating and maintenance costs will not necessarily fluctuate in proportion to changes in operating revenues. Operating revenues may fluctuate as a function of changes in supply of offshore drilling units and demand for contract drilling services, which in turn, affect daily rates, and the economic utilization and performance of our fleet of drilling units. However, our operating costs are generally related to the number of units in operation and the cost level in each country or region where the units are located. In addition, equipment maintenance costs fluctuate depending upon the type of activity that the unit is performing and the age and condition of the equipment. In connection with new assignments, we might incur expenses relating to preparation for operations under a new contract. The expenses may vary based on the scope and length of such required preparations and the duration of the contractual period over which such expenditures are amortized. In situations where our drilling units incur idle time between assignments, the opportunity to reduce the size of our crews on those drilling units is limited as the crews will be engaged in preparing the unit for its next contract. When a unit faces longer idle periods, reductions in costs may not be immediate as some of the crew may be required to prepare drilling units for stacking and maintenance in the stacking period. Should units be idle for a longer period, we will seek to redeploy crew members, who are not required to maintain the drilling units, to active rigs to the extent possible. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in reducing our costs in such cases. 15 We may not be able to renew or obtain new and favorable contracts for drilling units whose contracts are expiring or are terminated, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. As of December 31, 2012, we have eight contracts that expire in 2013, 10 contracts that expire in 2014 and 11 contracts that expire in 2015. Our ability to renew existing contracts or obtain new contracts will depend on the prevailing market conditions. Likewise, our customers may reduce their activity levels or seek to terminate or renegotiate drilling contracts with us. If we are not able to obtain new contracts in direct continuation, or if new contracts are entered into at daily rates substantially below the existing daily rates or on terms otherwise less favorable compared to existing contracts terms, such as contracts on a turnkey basis, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. Our future contracted revenue, or backlog, for our fleet of drilling units may not be ultimately realized. As of December 31, 2012, the future contracted revenue for our fleet of drilling units, or contract backlog, was approximately $21.0 billion. We may not be able to perform under these contracts due to events beyond our control, and our customers may seek to cancel or renegotiate our contracts for various reasons, including adverse conditions, resulting in lower daily rates. Our inability, or the inability of our customers to perform, under our or their contractual obligations may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Competition within the offshore drilling industry may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The offshore drilling industry is highly competitive and fragmented and includes several large companies that compete in many of the markets we serve, as well as numerous small companies that compete with us on a local basis. Offshore drilling contracts are generally awarded on a competitive bid basis or through privately negotiated transactions. In determining which qualified drilling contractor is awarded a contract, the key factors are pricing, rig availability, rig location, condition and integrity of equipment, its record of operating efficiency, including high operating uptime, technical specifications, safety performance record, crew experience, reputation, industry standing and customer relations. Our operations may be adversely affected if our current competitors or new market entrants introduce new drilling rigs with better features, performance, prices or other characteristics in comparison to our drilling rigs, or expand into service areas where we operate. In addition, mergers among oil and natural gas exploration and production companies have reduced, and may from time to time further reduce the number of available customers, which would increase the ability of potential customers to achieve pricing terms favorable to them. Competitive pressures or other factors may also result in significant price competition, particularly during industry downturns, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. An economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and financial position. We depend on our customers' willingness and ability to fund operating and capital expenditures to explore, develop and produce oil and gas, and to purchase drilling and related equipment. There has historically been a strong link between the development of the world economy and demand for energy, including oil and gas. The world economy is currently facing a number of challenges. This includes uncertainty to the continuing discussions in the United States regarding the federal debt ceiling. In Europe, as a result of the continuing credit crisis, in particular in Cyprus, Greece, Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Spain, the European Commission created the European Financial Stability Facility, or the EFSF, and the European Financial Stability Mechanism, or the EFSM, to provide funding to Eurozone countries in financial difficulties that seek such support. In March 2011, the European Council agreed on the need for Eurozone countries to establish a permanent stability mechanism, the European Stability Mechanism, or the ESM, which will be activated by mutual agreement, to assume the role of the EFSF and the EFSM in providing external financial assistance to Eurozone countries after June 2013. Despite these measures, concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain Eurozone countries and their ability to meet future financial obligations and the overall stability of the euro. An extended period of adverse development in the outlook for European countries could reduce the overall demand for oil and natural gas and for our services. These potential developments, or market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could affect our financial position, results of operations and cash available for distribution. This includes uncertainty surrounding the sovereign debt and credit crises in certain European countries. In addition, turmoil and hostilities in Korea, the Middle East, North Africa and other geographic areas and countries are adding to the overall risk picture. An extended period of adverse development in the outlook for the world economy could reduce the overall demand for oil and gas and for our services. Such changes could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows beyond what might be offset by the simultaneous impact of possibly higher oil and gas prices. 16 Failure to obtain or retain highly skilled personnel could adversely affect our operations. We require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. Competition for skilled and other labor required for our drilling operations has increased in recent years as the number of rigs activated or added to worldwide fleets has increased. The number of rigs in operation is continuing to grow as new units are being delivered. Furthermore, additional rigs currently under construction are expected to increase the future demand for offshore drilling crews. In some regions such as Brazil and Western Africa, limited availability of qualified personnel in combination with local regulations focusing on crew composition, are expected to further increase demand for qualified offshore drilling crews, which may increase our costs. A continued expansion of the rig fleet, improved demand for drilling services in general, coupled with shortages of qualified personnel could further create and intensify upward pressure on wages and make it more difficult for us to staff and service our rigs. Such developments could adversely affect our financial results and cash flow. Furthermore, as a result of any increased competition for people and risk for higher turnover, we may experience a reduction in the experience level of our personnel, which could lead to higher downtime and more operating incidents. In response to these labor market conditions, we have increased our efforts related to recruitment, training, development and retention programs as required to meet our anticipated personnel needs. Our labor costs and the operating restrictions that apply to us could increase as a result of collective bargaining negotiations and changes in labor laws and regulations. Some of our employees are represented by collective bargaining agreements. The majority of these employees work in Brazil, Mexico, Nigeria, Norway and the U.K. In addition, some of our contracted labor works under collective bargaining agreements. As part of the legal obligations in some of these agreements, we are required to contribute certain amounts to retirement funds and pension plans and are restricted in our ability to dismiss employees. In addition, many of these represented individuals are working under agreements that are subject to salary negotiation. These negotiations could result in higher personnel costs, other increased costs or increased operating restrictions that could adversely affect our financial performance. An inability to obtain visas and work permits for our employees on a timely basis could hurt our operations and have an adverse effect on our business. Our ability to operate worldwide depends on our ability to obtain the necessary visas and work permits for our personnel to travel in and out of, and to work in, the jurisdictions in which we operate. Governmental actions in some of the jurisdictions in which we operate may make it difficult for us to move our personnel in and out of these jurisdictions by delaying or withholding the approval of these permits. If we are not able to obtain visas and work permits for the employees we need for operating our rigs on a timely basis, or for third party technicians needed for maintenance or repairs, we might not be able to perform our obligations under our drilling contracts, which could allow our customers to cancel the contracts. If our customers cancel some of our contracts, and we are unable to secure new contracts on a timely basis and on substantially similar terms, it could adversely affect our consolidated statement of financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The failure to consummate or integrate acquisitions of other businesses and assets in a timely and cost-effective manner could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Acquisition of assets or businesses that expand our drilling operations is an important component of our business strategy. We believe that acquisition opportunities may arise from time to time, and any such acquisition could be significant. Any acquisition could involve the payment by us of a substantial amount of cash, the incurrence of a substantial amount of debt or the issuance of a substantial amount of equity. Certain acquisition and investment opportunities may not result in the consummation of a transaction. In addition, we may not be able to obtain acceptable terms for the required financing for any such acquisition or investment that arises. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that any announcement or consummation of an acquisition would have on the trading price of our common stock. Our future acquisitions could present a number of risks, including the risk of incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of acquired operations or assets or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of acquiring operations or assets, the risk of failing to successfully and timely integrate the operations or management of any acquired businesses or assets and the risk of diverting management's attention from existing operations or other priorities. If we fail to consummate and integrate our acquisitions in a timely and cost-effective manner, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 17 We may suffer losses through our investments in other companies in the offshore drilling and oil services industry, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. We currently hold investments in several other companies in our industry that own/operate offshore drilling rigs with similar characteristics to our fleet of rigs or deliver various other services. These investments include equity interests in Archer Limited, or Archer, Varia Perdana Bhd., or Varia Perdana, Asia Offshore Drilling Ltd., or AOD, Tioman Drilling Company Sdn Bhd, or Tioman Drilling, Sevan Drilling ASA, or Sevan, SapuraKencana Petroleum Bhd, or SapuraKencana, Seabras Sapura Participacoes SA, or Seabras Participacoes, Seabras Sapura Holdco Ltd. or Seabras Holdco, Itaunas Drilling B.V., or Itaunas, Camburi Drilling B.V., or Camburi, and Sahy Drilling B.V., or Sahy. The market value of our equity interest in these companies is likely to be volatile and could fluctuate in response to changes in oil and gas prices and activity levels in the offshore oil and gas industry. For example, in 2012, we recognized an impairment charge of $221 million related to our investment in Archer. If we sell our equity interest in an investment at a time when the value of such investment has fallen, we may incur a loss on the sale or an impairment loss being recognized, ultimately leading to a reduction in earnings. We may not be able to raise equity or debt financing sufficient to execute our growth strategy and to pay the cost of all of our newbuilding drilling units, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business is capital intensive and, to the extent we do not generate sufficient cash from operations, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity offerings to execute our growth strategy and to fund our capital expenditures. Borrowings under our current credit facilities, which are subject to certain conditions, and available cash on hand are not sufficient to pay the remaining installments related to our contracted yard commitments of all of our newbuilding drilling units, which is currently $6.5 billion. If we are not able to borrow additional funds, raise other capital or utilize available cash on hand, we may not be able to acquire these drilling units, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If for any reason we fail to make a payment when due, which may result in a default under our newbuilding contracts, or otherwise fail to take delivery of our newbuild units, we would be prevented from realizing potential revenues from these projects, we could also lose all or a portion of our yard payments that were paid by us, which as of April 22, 2013, amounted to $2.0 billion and we could be liable for penalties and damages under such contracts. Interest rate fluctuations could affect our earnings and cash flow. In order to finance our growth we have incurred significant amounts of debt. With the exception of some of our bonds and convertible bonds, the large majority of our debt arrangements have floating interest rates. As such, significant movements in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our earnings and cash flow. In order to manage our exposure to interest rate fluctuations, we use interest rate swaps to effectively fix a part of our floating rate debt obligations. The principal amount covered by interest rate swaps is evaluated continuously and determined based on our debt level, our expectations regarding future interest rates and our overall financial risk exposure. As of December 31, 2012, our total floating rate debt amounted to $8.5 billion of which we had entered into interest rate swap agreements to fix the interest rate for a principal amount of $6.1 billion. The corresponding weighted average interest rate was 2.4%. Although we enter into various interest rate swap transactions to manage exposure to movements in interest rates, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to do so at a reasonable cost or at all. If we are unable to effectively manage our interest rate exposure through interest rate swaps, any increase in market interest rates would increase our interest rate exposure and debt service obligations, which would exacerbate the risks associated with our leveraged capital structure. A change in tax laws of any country in which we operate could result in a higher tax expense or a higher effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings. We conduct our operations through various subsidiaries in countries throughout the world. Tax laws, regulations and treaties are highly complex and subject to interpretation. Consequently, we are subject to changing tax laws, regulations and treaties in and between countries in which we operate, including treaties between the United States and other nations. Our income tax expense is based upon our interpretation of the tax laws in effect in various countries at the time that the expense was incurred. A change in these tax laws, regulations or treaties, including those in and involving the United States, or in the interpretation thereof, or in the valuation of our deferred tax assets, which is beyond our control could result in a materially higher tax expense or a higher effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings. 18 A loss of a major tax dispute or a successful tax challenge to our operating structure, intercompany pricing policies or the taxable presence of our subsidiaries in certain countries could result in a higher tax rate on our worldwide earnings, which could result in a significant negative impact on our earnings and cash flows from operations. Our income tax returns are subject to review and examination. We do not recognize the benefit of income tax positions we believe are more likely than not to be disallowed upon challenge by a tax authority. If any tax authority successfully challenges our operational structure, intercompany pricing policies or the taxable presence of our subsidiaries in certain countries; or if the terms of certain income tax treaties are interpreted in a manner that is adverse to our structure; or if we lose a material tax dispute in any country, our effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings could increase substantially and our earnings and cash flows from operations could be materially adversely affected. Please see Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. United States tax authorities may treat us as a "passive foreign investment company" for United States federal income tax purposes, which may have adverse tax consequences to U.S. shareholders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a "passive foreign investment company," or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of "passive income" or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation's assets produce or are held for the production of those types of "passive income." For purposes of these tests, "passive income" includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute "passive income." U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. We presently believe that we are not a PFIC and do not anticipate becoming a PFIC. This is, however, a factual determination made on an annual basis and is subject to change. Therefore, we can give you no assurance as to our PFIC status. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our U.S. shareholders may face adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless those shareholders make an election available under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, as amended (which election could itself have adverse consequences for such shareholders, as discussed below under Item 10.E "Additional Information – Taxation"), such shareholders would be liable to pay U.S. federal income tax at the then prevailing income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of the common shares, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the shareholder's holding period of the common shares. In the event that our shareholders face adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences as a result of investing in shares of our common stock, this could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital through the equity markets. See Item 10.E "Additional Information – Taxation" for a more comprehensive discussion of the U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders if we are treated as a PFIC. Investors are encouraged to consult their own tax advisors concerning the overall tax consequences of the ownership of the common shares arising in an investor's particular situation under U.S. federal, state, local or foreign law. 19 Risks Relating to Our Common Shares Because we are a foreign corporation, you may not have the same rights that a shareholder in a U.S. corporation may have. We are a Bermuda exempted company limited by shares. Our memorandum of association and bye-laws and the Companies Act, 1981 of Bermuda, or the Companies Act, govern our affairs. The Companies Act does not clearly establish your rights and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors as do statutes and judicial precedent in some U.S. jurisdictions. Therefore, it may be more difficult to protect your interests as a shareholder in relation to the actions of management, directors or controlling shareholders, than it would be for shareholders of U.S. corporations to do the same. There is a statutory remedy under Section 111 of the Companies Act which provides that a shareholder may seek redress in the courts as long as such shareholder can establish that our affairs are being conducted, or have been conducted, in a manner oppressive or prejudicial to the interests of some part of the shareholders, including such shareholder. We are incorporated in Bermuda and it may not be possible for our investors to enforce U.S. judgments against us. We are incorporated in Bermuda and substantially all of our assets are located outside the U.S. In addition, all of our directors and all but one of our executive officers are non-residents of the U.S., and all or a substantial portion of the assets of these non-residents are located outside the U.S. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for U.S. investors to serve process within the U.S. upon us or our directors and executive officers, or to enforce a judgment against us for civil liabilities in U.S. courts. In addition, you should not assume that courts in the countries in which we are incorporated or where our assets are located (1) would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us based upon the civil liability provisions of applicable U.S. federal and state securities laws or (2) would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us based on those laws. We are subject to certain anti-takeover provisions in our constitutional documents. Several provisions of our bye-laws may have anti-takeover effects. These provisions are intended to avoid costly takeover battles, lessen our vulnerability to a hostile change of control and enhance the ability of our board of directors to maximize shareholder value in connection with any unsolicited offer to acquire us. However, these anti-takeover provisions could also discourage, delay or prevent the merger, amalgamation or acquisition of our company by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise, that a shareholder may consider to be in its best interest. For more detailed information, reference is made to Item 10 "Additional Information" of this Annual Report. We depend on directors who are associated with companies that may be indirectly influenced by Mr. John Fredriksen, which may create conflicts of interest. Mr. John Fredriksen, our President and Chairman, may have indirect influence over our principal shareholder, Hemen Holding Ltd., or Hemen, the shares of which are held in trusts, or the Trusts, established for the benefit of Mr. Fredriksen's immediate family. In addition to us, Hemen also has significant direct or indirect shareholdings, in certain other companies, including, Frontline Ltd. (NYSE: FRO), or Frontline, and Ship Finance International Limited (NYSE: SFL), or Ship Finance. In addition, Hemen owns approximately 7.8% of our minority-owned subsidiary Archer Limited (OSE:NO). Our Vice-President and director Mr. Tor Olav Trøim is also a director of Archer Limited, Golar LNG Partners LP (NASDAQ: GMLP), Golar LNG Limited (NASDAQ GS: GLNG), a company whose principal shareholder's shares are also held in the Trusts. One of our other directors, Kate Blankenship, is also a director of Frontline, NADL, Ship Finance, Golar LNG Partners LP (NASDAQ: GMLP), Golar LNG Limited and Archer Limited. One of our other directors, Mr. Paul Leand, is also a director of Ship Finance, and another director, Mr. Bert Bekker, is also a director of Seadrill Partners. Mr. Fredriksen, Mr. Trøim and Mrs. Blankenship owe fiduciary duties to each of Seadrill, Frontline, Ship Finance and Archer Limited, as applicable, and may have conflicts of interest in matters involving or affecting us and our customers. In addition, they may have conflicts of interest when faced with decisions that could have different implications for Frontline, Archer Limited, Ship Finance, Golar LNG Partners, or Golar LNG than they do for us. We cannot assure you that any of these conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor. 20 