D. RISK FACTORS Our assets are primarily engaged in offshore contract drilling for the oil and gas industry in benign and harsh environments worldwide, including ultra-deepwater environments. The following summarizes some of the risks that may materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Unless otherwise indicated in this Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2010, all information concerning our business and our assets is as of April 26, 2011. Risks Relating to Our Industry Our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends depend on the level of activity in the offshore oil and gas industry, which is significantly affected by, among other things, volatile oil and gas prices and may be materially and adversely affected by a decline in offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production. The offshore contract drilling industry is cyclical and volatile. Our business depends on the level of activity in oil and gas exploration, as well as the identification and development of oil and gas reserves and production in offshore areas worldwide. The availability of quality drilling prospects, exploration success, relative production costs, the stage of reservoir development, political concerns and regulatory requirements all affect customers' levels of activity and drilling campaigns. Accordingly, oil and gas prices and market expectations of potential changes in these prices significantly affect the level of activity and demand for our drilling units and well services. 6 Oil and gas prices are extremely volatile and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including the following: ● worldwide production and demand for oil and gas; ● the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and gas; ● expectations regarding future energy prices; ● advances in exploration, development and production technology; ● the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, to set and maintain production levels and pricing; ● the level of production in non-OPEC countries; ● government laws and regulations, including environmental protection laws and regulations; ● local and international political, economic and weather conditions; ● domestic and foreign tax policies; ● the development and exploitation of alternative fuels and other alternative energy sources; ● the policies of various governments regarding exploration and development of their oil and gas reserves; ● the worldwide political and military environment, including uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities or other crises in the Middle East or other geographic areas or further acts of terrorism in the United States, or elsewhere; and ● volatility in the exchange rate of the US dollar against other currencies. Declines in oil and gas prices for an extended period of time, or market expectations of potential decreases in these prices, could negatively affect our business in the offshore drilling sector. Sustained periods of low oil prices typically result in reduced exploration and drilling because oil and gas companies' capital expenditure budgets are subject to their forecasted cash flow and are therefore sensitive to changes in energy prices. These changes in oil and gas prices can have a dramatic effect on rig demand, and periods of low demand can cause excess rig supply and intensify the competition in the industry which often results in drilling units, particularly lower specification drilling units, being idle for long periods of time. We cannot predict the future level of demand for our services or future conditions of the oil and gas industry. Any decrease in exploration, development or production expenditures by oil and gas companies could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition to oil and gas prices, the offshore drilling industry is influenced by additional factors, including: ● the availability of competing offshore drilling vessels; ● the level of costs for associated offshore oilfield and construction services; ● oil and gas transportation costs; ● the discovery of new oil and gas reserves; ● the cost of non-conventional hydrocarbons; and ● regulatory restrictions on offshore drilling. Any of these factors could reduce demand for our services and adversely affect our business and results of operations. 7 An over-supply of drilling units may lead to a reduction in dayrates, which are the amounts earned per day per drilling unit, which may materially impact our earnings. In the past significant spikes in oil and gas prices have led to increased drilling activities in offshore regions with respect to both exploration and production activities. In response, offshore drilling contractors have ordered new drilling units to meet their customers' increasing demand, leading to a high number of rigs under construction. Due to the cyclicality that has characterized our industry, spikes in oil prices have often been followed by a period of sharp and sudden declines in oil prices and an oversupply of drilling units, which, in turn, results in declines in utilization and dayrates, and an increase in the number of idle drilling units without contracts. The number of offshore drilling units (including units under construction) currently totals 923 consisting of 338 drillships and semi-submersible rigs, 551 jack-ups and 34 self-erecting tender rigs. The floater fleet includes 116 existing dynamically positioned deepwater drilling units and an additional 67 dynamically positioned deepwater units currently under construction or on order for expected deliveries between now and the end of 2014. The strong growth in deepwater units is due to oil companies' greater focus on existing and new deepwater regions for exploration and production, and the inability to upgrade or modify the existing mid-water fleet as necessary for undertaking deepwater drilling campaigns. If the floater fleet continues to grow, there may be an over-supply of such drilling units, which may lead to a reduction in dayrates and that could materially impact our earnings. The worldwide fleet of jack-up rigs contains 551 units with an average age of approximately 20 years. Of the 551 units 102 has been built after 2005 and there are 74 jack-up rigs currently under construction. The growth in newbuilding jack-up rigs is based on demand from oil companies for more advanced and effective jack-up rigs, and reflects a general trend towards high-grading the technical capabilities of the world-wide fleet. However, the majority of the newbuilding jack-up rigs have been ordered on speculation (i.e., without fixed employment for future work in place). This could intensify price competition as scheduled delivery dates come closer, resulting in a reduction in dayrates. Lower utilization and dayrates could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Prolonged periods of low utilization and dayrates could also have a material adverse effect on the value of our assets and could materially impact our earnings. The world-wide fleet of self-erecting tender rigs totals 34 units including 5 rigs under construction. All tender rigs under construction, apart from the most recently ordered Seadrill rig T17, have secured contract for employment following delivery. The construction of new tender rigs reflects the general growth in demand for modern offshore drilling units as well as high-grading of the fleet. If the tender rig fleet continues to grow, there may be an over-supply of such drilling units, which may lead to a reduction in dayrates and that could materially impact our earnings. The market value of our current drilling units and those we acquire in the future may decrease, which could cause us to incur losses if we decide to sell them following a decline in their market values. If the offshore contract drilling industry suffers adverse developments in the future, the fair market value of our drilling units may decline. The fair market value of the drilling units that we currently own, or may acquire in the future, may increase or decrease depending on a number of factors, including: ● general economic and market conditions affecting the offshore contract drilling industry, including competition from other offshore contract drilling companies; ● types, sizes and ages of drilling units; ● supply and demand for drilling units; ● costs of newbuildings; ● prevailing level of drilling services contract dayrates; ● governmental or other regulations; and ● technological advances. If we sell any drilling unit at a time when prices for drilling units have fallen, such a sale may result in a loss. Such a loss could materially and adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. 8 The offshore drilling industry is highly competitive and there is strong price competition, and as a result, we may be unable to compete successfully. The offshore contract drilling industry is highly competitive with several industry participants, none of which has a dominant market share, and is characterized by high capital and maintenance requirements. Drilling contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. Price competition is often the primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded the drilling contract, although drilling unit availability, location and suitability, the quality and technical capability of service and equipment, reputation and industry standing are key factors which are also considered. Mergers among oil and natural gas exploration and production companies have reduced, and may from time to time further reduce the number of available customers, which would increase the ability of potential customers to achieve pricing terms favorable to them. There is no guarantee that we will be able to remain competitive in a market with a limited number of available customers. Consolidation of suppliers may limit our ability to obtain supplies and services when we need them, at an acceptable cost, or at all. We rely on a significant supply of consumables, spare parts and equipment to operate, maintain, repair and upgrade our fleet of drilling units. During the last decade, the number of available suppliers has been reduced, resulting in fewer alternatives for sourcing key supplies and services. In addition, certain key equipment used in our business is protected by patents and other intellectual property of our suppliers. This may limit our ability to obtain supplies and services at an acceptable cost, at the times we need them, or at all. Cost increases, delays or unavailability could negatively impact our future operations and result in additional rig downtime due to delays in the repair and maintenance of our fleet. Our international operations involve additional risks associated with operating outside the U.S. We operate in various regions throughout the world which may expose us to political and other uncertainties, including risks of: ● terrorist acts, war, civil disturbances and piracy; ● seizure, nationalization or expropriation of property or equipment; ● repudiation, nullification, indemnification or re-regulation of contracts; ● limitations on insurance coverage; ● government corruption; ● political unrest; ● labor unrest and strikes; ● foreign and U.S. monetary policy and foreign currency fluctuations and devaluations; ● the inability to repatriate income or capital; ● complications associated with repairing and replacing equipment in remote locations; ● import-export quotas, wage and price controls, imposition of trade barriers and other forms of government regulation and economic conditions that are beyond our control; ● regulatory or financial requirements for compliance with foreign bureaucratic actions; and ● changing taxation policies. In addition, international contract drilling operations are subject to the various laws and regulations of the countries in which we operate, including laws and regulations relating to: ● the equipping and operation of drilling units; ● repatriation of foreign earnings; ● oil and gas exploration and development; ● taxation of offshore earnings and the earnings of expatriate personnel; ● customs duties on the importation of drilling units and related equipment; ● requirements for local registration or ownership of drilling units by nationals of the country of operations in certain countries; and ● the use and compensation of local employees and suppliers by foreign contractors. 9 Some foreign governments favor or effectively require (i) the awarding of drilling contracts to local contractors or to drilling units owned by such governments' own citizens, (ii) the use of a local agent or (iii) foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. These practices may adversely affect our ability to compete in those regions. It is difficult to predict what governmental regulations may be enacted in the future that could adversely affect the international drilling industry. The actions of foreign governments, including initiatives by OPEC, may adversely affect our ability to compete. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including those relating to sanctions and export restrictions, may subject us to criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including fines, denial of export privileges, injunctions or seizures of assets. If our drilling units are located in countries that are subject to restrictions imposed by the U.S. or other governments, our reputation and the market for our common stock could be adversely affected. In 2010, the U.S. enacted the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions Accountability and Divestment Act ("CISADA"), which expanded the scope of the former Iran Sanctions Act. Among other things, CISADA expands the application of the prohibitions to non-U.S. companies, such as our Company, and introduces limits on the ability of companies and persons to do business or trade with Iran when such activities relate to the investment, supply or export of refined petroleum or petroleum products. Although we believe that we are in compliance with all applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations, and intend to maintain such compliance, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future, particularly as the scope of certain laws may be unclear and may be subject to changing interpretations. Any such violation could result in fines or other penalties and could result in some investors deciding, or being required, to divest their interest, or not to invest, in our Company. Additionally, some investors may decide to divest their interest, or not to invest, in our Company simply because we may do business with companies that do business in sanctioned countries. Moreover, our drilling contracts may violate applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations as a result of actions that do not involve us or our drilling units, and those violations could in turn negatively affect our reputation. Investor perception of the value of our common stock may also be adversely affected by the consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest and governmental actions in these and surrounding countries We may be subject to liability under environmental laws and regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations are subject to regulations controlling the discharge of materials into the environment, requiring removal and clean-up of materials that may harm the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. For example, as an operator of mobile drilling units off the coastlines of Brazil, the United States and other countries, we may be liable for damages and costs incurred in connection with spills of oil and other chemicals and substances related to our operations, and we may also be subject to significant fines in connection with spills. Laws and regulations protecting the environment have become more stringent in recent years, and may in some cases impose strict liability, rendering a person liable for environmental damage without regard to negligence. These laws and regulations may expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by others, or for acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time when such acts were performed. The application of these requirements or the adoption of new requirements could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We have generally been able to obtain a degree of contractual indemnification pursuant to which our clients agree to protect, hold harmless and indemnify us against liability for pollution, well and environmental damage; however, there is no assurance that we can obtain such indemnities in all of our future contracts or that, in the event of extensive pollution and environmental damage, our clients would always have the financial capability to fulfill their contractual obligations to us. Also, these indemnities may be held to be unenforceable in certain jurisdictions, as a result of public policy or for other reasons. Our ability to operate our drilling units in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico could be restricted by governmental regulation. Hurricanes Ivan, Katrina, Rita, Gustav and Ike caused damage to a number of drilling units unaffiliated to us in the Gulf of Mexico, or GOM. The Minerals Management Service of the U.S. Department of the Interior, now known as the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement, or BOEMRE, issued guidelines for tie-downs on drilling units and permanent equipment and facilities attached to outer continental shelf production platforms, and moored drilling unit fitness that apply through the 2013 hurricane season. These guidelines effectively impose new requirements on the offshore oil and natural gas industry in an attempt to improve the stations that house the moored units and increase the likelihood of survival of offshore drilling units during a hurricane. The guidelines also provide for enhanced information and data requirements from oil and natural gas companies that operate properties in the US GOM. BOEMRE may issue similar guidelines for future hurricane seasons and may take other steps that could increase the cost of operations or reduce the area of operations for our ultra-deepwater drilling units, thereby reducing their marketability. Implementation of new BOEMRE guidelines or regulations that may apply to ultra-deepwater drilling units may subject us to increased costs and limit the operational capabilities of our drilling units We do not have any jack-up rigs or moored drilling units operating in the US GOM. However, we currently operate one ultra-deepwater semi-submersible drilling rig in the US GOM that is self-propelled and equipped with thrusters and other machinery, which enable the rig to move between drilling locations and remain in position while drilling without the need for anchors, and we have a similar unit en route to start operations in the Mexican part of the GOM. Public health threats could have an adverse effect on our operations and our financial results. Public health threats, such as swine flu, bird flu, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome and other highly communicable diseases, outbreaks of which have already occurred in various parts of the world in which we operate, could adversely impact on our operations, the operations of our customers and the global economy, including the worldwide demand for oil and gas and, ultimately, the level of demand for our services. Any of these public health threats could adversely affect our financial results. 10 We may be subject to litigation that could have an adverse effect on us. We are currently involved in various litigation matters, none of which we expect to have a material adverse effect on us. We anticipate that we will be involved in litigation matters from time to time in the future. The operating hazards inherent in our business expose us to litigation, including personal injury litigation, environmental litigation contractual litigation with clients, intellectual property litigation, tax or securities litigation, and maritime lawsuits, including the possible arrest of our drilling units. We cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any claim or other litigation matter, or a combination of these. Any future litigation may have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and ability to pay dividends, because of potential negative outcomes, the costs associated with prosecuting or defending such lawsuits, and the diversion of management's attention to these matters. Fluctuations in exchange rates and non-convertibility of currencies could result in losses to us. As a result of our international operations, we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates due to revenues being received and operating expenses paid in currencies other than U.S. Dollars. Accordingly, we may experience currency exchange losses if we have not fully hedged our exposure to a foreign currency, or if revenues are received in currencies that are not readily convertible. We may also be unable to collect revenues because of a shortage of convertible currency available to the country of operation, controls over currency exchange or controls over the repatriation of income or capital. A discussion of our policy and exposure to exchange rate fluctuations is given in Item 11 "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk". Our business and operations involve numerous operating hazards. Our operations are subject to hazards inherent in the drilling industry, such as blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of production, loss of well control, lost or stuck drill strings, equipment defects, punch throughs, craterings, fires, explosions and pollution, including the 2010 events related to the Deepwater Horizon, an unaffiliated drilling unit. Contract drilling and well servicing require the use of heavy equipment and exposure to hazardous conditions, which may subject us to liability claims by employees, customers and third parties. These hazards can cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, pollution or environmental damage, claims by third parties or customers and suspension of operations. Our offshore fleet is also subject to hazards inherent in marine operations, either while on-site or during mobilization, such as capsizing, sinking, grounding, collision, damage from severe weather and marine life infestations. Operations may also be suspended because of machinery breakdowns, abnormal drilling conditions, failure of subcontractors to perform or supply goods or services, or personnel shortages. We customarily provide contract indemnity to our customers for claims that could be asserted by us relating to damage to or loss of our equipment, including rigs and claims that could be asserted by us or our employees relating to personal injury or loss of life. Damage to the environment could also result from our operations, particularly through spillage of fuel, lubricants or other chemicals and substances used in drilling operations, or extensive uncontrolled fires. We may also be subject to property, environmental and other damage claims by oil and gas companies. Our insurance policies and contractual rights to indemnity may not adequately cover losses, and we do not have insurance coverage or rights to indemnity for all risks. Consistent with standard industry practice, our clients generally assume, and indemnify us against, well control and subsurface risks under dayrate contracts. These are risks associated with the loss of control of a well, such as blowout or cratering, the cost to regain control of or re-drill the well and associated pollution. However, there can be no assurance that these clients will be willing or financially able to indemnify us against all these risks. We maintain insurance coverage for property damage, occupational injury and illness, and general and marine third-party liabilities. However, pollution and environmental risks generally are not totally insurable. We maintain a portion of deductibles for damage to our offshore drilling equipment and third-party liabilities. With respect to hull and machinery we generally maintain a deductible per occurrence up to $5 million. However, in the event of a total loss or a constructive total loss of a drilling unit, such loss is fully covered by our insurance with no deductible. For general and marine third-party liabilities we generally maintain up to $250,000 deductible per occurrence on personal injury liability for crew claims as well as non-crew claims and per occurrence on third-party property damage. 11 If a significant accident or other event occurs that is not fully covered by our insurance or an enforceable or recoverable indemnity from a client, the occurrence could adversely affect our consolidated statement of financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The amount of our insurance may also be less than the related impact on enterprise value after a loss. Our insurance coverage will not in all situations provide sufficient funds to protect us from all liabilities that could result from our drilling operations. Our coverage includes annual aggregate policy limits. As a result, we retain the risk through self-insurance for any losses in excess of these limits. Any such lack of reimbursement may cause us to incur substantial costs. In addition, we could decide to retain more risk through self-insurance in the future. This self-insurance results in a higher risk of losses, which could be material, that are not covered by third party insurance contracts. Specifically, we have elected to self-insure for physical damage to rigs and equipment caused by named windstorms in the GOM due to the substantial costs associated with such coverage. If such windstorms cause significant damage to any rig and equipment we have in the GOM, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Moreover, no assurance can be made that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates that we consider reasonable, or obtain insurance against certain risks. As of April 26, 2011, all of the drilling units that we owned or operated were covered by existing insurance policies. The aftermath of the moratorium on offshore drilling in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, and new regulations adopted as a result of the investigation into the Macondo well blowout, could negatively impact us. In the near-term aftermath of the Deepwater Horizon Incident that led to the Macondo well blow out situation, , the U.S. government on May 30, 2010 imposed a six-month moratorium on certain drilling activities in water deeper than 500 feet in the US GOM and subsequently implemented enhanced safety requirements applicable to all drilling activity in the US GOM, including drilling activities in water shallower than 500 feet. On October 12, 2010, the U.S. government lifted the moratorium subject to compliance with enhanced safety requirements including those set forth in Notices to Lessees 2010-N05 and 2010-N06, both of which were implemented during the drilling ban. Additionally, all drilling in the US GOM will be required to comply with the Interim Final Rule to Enhance Safety Measures for Energy Development on the Outer Continental Shelf (Drilling Safety Rule) and the Workplace Safety Rule on Safety and Environmental Management Systems, both of which were issued on September 30, 2010, once they become final. We continue to evaluate these new measures to ensure that our rigs and equipment are in full compliance, where applicable. Additional requirements could be forthcoming based on further recommendations by regulatory agencies investigating the Macondo incident. We are not able to predict the likelihood, nature or extent of additional rulemaking or when the interim rules, or any future rules, could become final. Nor are we able to predict when the BOEMRE will issue drilling permits to our customers. We are not able to predict the future impact of these events on our operations. Even with the drilling ban lifted, certain deepwater drilling activities remain suspended until the BOEMRE resumes its regular permitting of those activities. The current and future regulatory environment in the US GOM could impact the demand for drilling units in the US GOM in terms of overall number of rigs in operations and the technical specification required for offshore rigs to operate in the US GOM. It is possible that short-term potential migration of rigs from the US GOM could adversely impact dayrates levels and fleet utilization in other regions. Additional governmental regulations concerning licensing, taxation, equipment specifications, training requirements or other matters could increase the costs of our operations, and escalating costs borne by our customers, along with permitting delays, could reduce exploration and development activity in the US GOM and, therefore, reduce demand for our services. In addition, insurance costs across the industry are expected to increase as a result of the Macondo incident and, in the future, certain insurance coverage is likely to become more costly, and may become less available or not available at all. We cannot predict if the U.S. government will issue new drilling permits in a timely manner, nor can we predict the potential impact of new regulations that may be forthcoming as the investigation into the Macondo well incident continues. Nor can we predict if implementation of additional regulations might subject us to increased costs of operating and/or a reduction in the area of operation in the US GOM. As such, our cash flow and financial position could be adversely affected if our one ultra-deepwater drilling rig in the US GOM was subject to the risks mentioned above. Governmental laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations, may add to our costs or limit our drilling activity. Our business in the offshore drilling industry is affected by laws and regulations relating to the energy industry and the environment in the geographic areas where we operate. The offshore drilling industry is dependent on demand for services from the oil and gas exploration and production industry, and, accordingly, we are directly affected by the adoption of laws and regulations that, for economic, environmental or other policy reasons, curtail exploration and development drilling for oil and gas. We may be required to make significant capital expenditures to comply with governmental laws and regulations. It is also possible that these laws and regulations may, in the future, add significantly to our operating costs or significantly limit drilling activity. Our ability to compete in international contract drilling markets may be limited by foreign governmental regulations that favor or require the awarding of contracts to local contractors or by regulations requiring foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. Governments in some countries are increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of concessions, the exploration for oil and gas, and other aspects of the oil and gas industries. Offshore drilling in certain areas has been curtailed and, in certain cases, prohibited because of concerns over protection of the environment. Operations in less developed countries can be subject to legal systems that are not as mature or predictable as those in more developed countries, which can lead to greater uncertainty in legal matters and proceedings. 12 To the extent new laws are enacted or other governmental actions are taken that prohibit or restrict offshore drilling or impose additional environmental protection requirements that result in increased costs to the oil and gas industry, in general, or the offshore drilling industry, in particular, our business or prospects could be materially adversely affected. The operation of our drilling units will require certain governmental approvals, the number and prerequisites of which cannot be determined until we identify the jurisdictions in which we will operate on securing contracts for the drilling units. Depending on the jurisdiction, these governmental approvals may involve public hearings and costly undertakings on our part. We may not obtain such approvals or such approvals may not be obtained in a timely manner. If we fail to timely secure the necessary approvals or permits, our customers may have the right to terminate or seek to renegotiate their drilling contracts to our detriment. The amendment or modification of existing laws and regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations curtailing or further regulating exploratory or development drilling and production of oil and gas could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Future earnings may be negatively affected by compliance with any such new legislation or regulations. Climate change and greenhouse gas restrictions may adversely impact our operations and markets. Due to concern over the risk of climate change, a number of countries and the United Nations' International Maritime Organization, or IMO, have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. These regulatory measures may include, among others, adoption of cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, increased efficiency standards, and incentives or mandates for renewable energy. In addition, although the emissions of greenhouse gases from international shipping currently are not subject to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which required adopting countries to implement national programs to reduce emissions of certain gases, a new treaty may be adopted in the future that includes restrictions on shipping emissions. Compliance with changes in laws, regulations and obligations relating to climate change could increase our costs related to operating and maintaining our assets, and might also require us to install new emission controls, acquire allowances or pay taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions, or administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. Adverse effects upon the oil and gas industry relating to climate change, including growing public concern about the environmental impact of climate change, may also adversely affect demand for our services. For example, increased regulation of greenhouse gases or other concerns relating to climate change may reduce the demand for oil and gas in the future or create greater incentives for use of alternative energy sources. Any long-term material adverse effect on the oil and gas industry could have a significant financial and operational adverse impact on our business. Technology disputes involving our suppliers could impact our operations or increase our costs. The majority of the intellectual property rights relating to our drilling units and related equipment are owned by our suppliers. In the event that one of our suppliers becomes involved in a dispute over infringement of intellectual property rights relating to equipment owned by us, we may lose access to repair services, replacement parts, or could be required to cease use● of some equipment. We could also be required to pay royalties for the use of equipment. These consequences of technology disputes involving our suppliers could adversely affect our financial results and operations. We have provisions in most of our supply contracts to provide indemnity from the supplier against intellectual property lawsuits. However, we cannot be assured that our suppliers will be willing or financially able to honor their indemnity obligations, or guarantee that the indemnities will fully protect us from the adverse consequences of such technology disputes. We also have provisions in some of our client contracts to require the client to share some of these risks on a limited basis, but we cannot provide assurance that these provisions will fully protect us from the adverse consequences of such technology disputes. 13 We may not be able to keep pace with the continual and rapid technological developments that characterize the market for our services, and our failure to do so may result in our loss of market share. The market for our services is characterized by continual and rapid technological developments that have resulted in, and will likely continue to result in, substantial improvements in equipment functions and performance. As a result, our future success and profitability will be dependent in part upon our ability to: ● maintain and improve our existing services and related equipment; ● address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers; and ● anticipate changes in technology and industry standards and respond to technological developments on a timely basis. If we are not successful in acquiring new equipment or upgrading our existing equipment on a timely and cost-effective manner in response to technological developments or changes in standards in our industry, we could lose business and profits. In addition, current competitors or new market entrants may develop new technologies, services or standards that could render some of our services or equipment obsolete, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Risks Relating to Our Company The amount of our debt could limit our liquidity and flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. As of December 31, 2010, we had $9.6 billion in principal amount of debt, representing approximately 55% of our total capitalization. Our current indebtedness and future indebtedness that we may incur could affect our future operations, as a portion of our cash flow from operations will be dedicated to the payment of interest and principal on such debt and will not be available for other purposes. Covenants contained in our debt agreements require us to meet certain financial tests, which may affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in our business and may limit our ability to dispose of assets or place restrictions on the use of proceeds from such dispositions, withstand current or future economic or industry downturns and compete with others in our industry for strategic opportunities, and our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate and other purposes may be limited. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations and to fund planned expenditures, including construction costs for our newbuilding projects, will be dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. Our future cash flows may be insufficient to meet all of our debt obligations and contractual commitments, and any insufficiency could negatively impact our business. To the extent that we are unable to repay our indebtedness as it becomes due or at maturity, we may need to refinance our debt, raise new debt, sell assets or repay the debt with the proceeds from equity offerings. Additional indebtedness or equity financing may not be available to us in the future for the refinancing or repayment of existing indebtedness, and we may not be able to complete asset sales in a timely manner sufficient to make such repayments. If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and the financial covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness, there could be a default under the terms of these agreements, which could accelerate our repayment of funds that we have borrowed. If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness or in current or future debt financing agreements, there could be a default under the terms of those agreements. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants, including meeting financial ratios and tests, is dependent on our future performance and may be affected by events beyond our control. If a default occurs under these agreements, lenders could terminate their commitments to lend or accelerate the outstanding loans and declare all amounts borrowed due and payable. Borrowings under other debt instruments that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions may also be accelerated and become due and payable. If any of these events occur, we cannot guarantee that our assets will be sufficient to repay in full all of our outstanding indebtedness, and we may be unable to find alternative financing. Even if we could obtain alternative financing, that financing might not be on terms that are favorable or acceptable. 14 We rely on a small number of customers. Our contract drilling business is subject to the risks associated with having a limited number of customers for our services. As of December 31, 2010, our five largest customers accounted for approximately 76% of our future contracted revenues, or order backlog. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if any of our major customers failed to compensate us for our services, were to terminate our contracts with or without cause, failed to renew its existing contracts or refused to award new contracts to us and we are unable to enter into contracts with new customers at comparable dayrates. Newbuilding projects and surveys are subject to risks that could cause delays or cost overruns. As of December 31, 2010, we had an outstanding newbuilding orderbook towards various yards for an additional 10 drilling units with corresponding contractual commitments totaling $2.07 billion. Such rig construction projects are subject to risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project from numerous factors, including shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor, unscheduled delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment or shipyard construction, failure of equipment to meet quality and/or performance standards, financial or operating difficulties experienced by equipment vendors or the shipyard, unanticipated actual or purported change orders, inability to obtain required permits or approvals, unanticipated cost increases between order and delivery, design or engineering changes and work stoppages and other labor disputes, adverse weather conditions or any other events of force majeure. Significant cost overruns or delays could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, failure to complete a project on time may result in the delay of revenue from that rig. New drilling rigs may experience start-up difficulties following delivery or other unexpected operational problems that could result in uncompensated downtime, which also could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows or the cancellation or termination of drilling contracts. Some of our offshore drilling contracts may be terminated early due to certain events. Some of our customers have the right to terminate their drilling contracts upon the payment of an early termination fee. However, such payments may not fully compensate us for the loss of the contract. Under certain circumstances our contracts may permit customers to terminate contracts early without the payment of any termination fees, as a result of non-performance, longer periods of downtime or impaired performance caused by equipment or operational issues, or sustained periods of downtime due to force majeure events beyond our control. During periods of challenging market conditions, we may be subject to an increased risk of our clients seeking to repudiate their contracts, including through claims of non-performance. Our customers' ability to perform their obligations under their drilling contracts with us may also be negatively impacted by the prevailing uncertainty surrounding the development of the world economy and the credit markets. If our customers cancel some of our contracts, and we are unable to secure new contracts on a timely basis and on substantially similar terms, or if contracts are suspended for an extended period of time or if a number of our contracts are renegotiated, it could adversely affect our consolidated statement of financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The provisions of the majority of our offshore rig contracts that are term contracts at fixed dayrates may not permit us fully to recoup our costs in the event of a rise in our expenses. Most of the units in our fleet have long-term contracts. The average contract length as of December 31, 2010, was 30 months for our deepwater units, 23 months for our tender rigs and 12 months for our jack-up rigs. The majority of these contracts have dayrates that are fixed over the contract term. In order to mitigate the effects of inflation on revenues from term contracts, most of our contracts include escalation provisions. These provisions allow us to adjust the dayrates based on stipulated cost increases including wages, insurance and maintenance cost. However, because these escalations are normally performed on a semi-annual or annual basis, the timing and amount awarded as a result of such adjustments may differ from our actual cost increases, which could adversely affect our financial performance. Shorter term contracts normally do not contain escalations provisions. 15 Our operating and maintenance costs will not necessarily fluctuate in proportion to changes in operating revenues. Operating revenues may fluctuate as a function of changes in supply of offshore drilling units and demand for contract drilling services, which in turn, affect dayrates, and the economic utilization and performance of our fleet of drilling units. However, our operating costs are generally related to the number of units in operation and the cost level in each country or region where the units are located. In addition, equipment maintenance costs fluctuate depending upon the type of activity that the unit is performing and the age and condition of the equipment. In connection with new assignments, we might incur expenses relating to preparation for operations under a new contract. The expenses may vary based on the scope and length of such required preparations and the duration of the firm contractual period over which such expenditures are amortized. In situations where our drilling units incur idle time between assignments, the opportunity to reduce the size of our crews on those drilling units is limited as the crews will be engaged in preparing the unit for its next contract. When a unit faces longer idle periods, reductions in costs may not be immediate as some of the crew may be required to prepare drilling units for stacking and maintenance in the stacking period. Should units be idle for a longer period, we will seek to redeploy crew members, who are not required to maintain the drilling units, to active rigs to the extent possible. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in reducing our costs in such cases. We may not be able to renew or obtain new and favorable contracts for drilling units whose contracts are expiring or are terminated, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We have 12 contracts that expire in 2011, 10 contracts that expire in 2012 and five contracts that expire in 2013. Our ability to renew these contracts or obtain new contracts will depend on the prevailing market conditions. If we are not able to obtain new contracts in direct continuation, or if new contracts are entered into at dayrates substantially below the existing dayrates or on terms otherwise less favorable compared to existing contracts terms, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. Our future contracted revenue for our fleet of drilling units may not be ultimately realized. As of December 31, 2010, the future contracted revenue for our fleet of drilling units, or contract drilling backlog, was approximately $11.2 billion under firm commitments. We may not be able to perform under these contracts due to events beyond our control, and our customers may seek to cancel or renegotiate our contracts for various reasons, including adverse conditions, resulting in lower dayrates. Our inability, or the inability of our customers to perform, under our or their contractual obligations may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Competition within the oilfield services industry may adversely affect our ability to market our services. The oilfield services industry is highly competitive and fragmented and includes several large companies that compete in many of the markets we serve, as well as numerous small companies that compete with us on a local basis. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the market areas we serve are price, product and service quality, availability of crews and equipment and technical proficiency. Our operations may be adversely affected if our current competitors or new market entrants introduce new products or services with better features, performance, prices or other characteristics in comparison to our products and services, or expand into service areas where we operate. Competitive pressures or other factors may also result in significant price competition, particularly during industry downturns, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, competition among oilfield services and equipment providers is affected by each provider's reputation for safety and quality. Any renewal of the recent worldwide economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and financial position. We depend on our customers' willingness and ability to fund operating and capital expenditures to explore, develop and produce oil and gas, and to purchase drilling and related equipment. There has historically been a strong link between the development of the world economy and demand for energy, including oil and gas. Although the world economy has shown strong signs of improvement, there is still considerable instability in the world economy and challenges for certain countries including, but without limitation, Greece, Spain, Portugal, Ireland and Italy due to their mounting debt curbing. Also, the recent tragic earthquakes and tsunami in Japan have reinserted uncertainty in the global markets. In addition, continued recent hostilities in the Middle East, North Africa and other geographic areas and countries are adding to the uncertainty. A more negative outlook for the world economy could reduce the overall demand for oil and gas and for our services. Such changes could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows beyond what might be offset by the simultaneous impact of possibly higher oil and gas prices. We cannot assure you that our customers will sustain or increase their capital programs and budgets in response to the recent increase in crude oil prices, which were approximately $124 per barrel (Brent Oil Price) as of April 26, 2011. 16 Failure to obtain or retain highly skilled personnel could adversely affect our operations. We require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. Competition for skilled and other labor required for our drilling operations has increased in recent years as the number of rigs activated or added to worldwide fleets has increased. The drop in energy prices and utilization rate in 2008 reduced, to some extent, the need for people related to international jack-up rigs. For harsh environment and international deepwater operations, utilization rates have remained high. The number of deepwater units in operation is growing as a result of the delivery of units ordered during the period from 2005 to 2008, supplemented by new orders placed late last year and so far this year. This increase in units is expected to increase especially the demand for qualified personnel with deepwater experience, in particular in Brazil where there is additional pressure on availability of qualified personnel due to local regulations regarding numbers of local resources within crew composition. If this expansion continues and is coupled with improved demand for drilling services in general, shortages of qualified personnel could further create and intensify upward pressure on wages and make it more difficult for us to staff and service our rigs. Such developments could adversely affect our financial results and cash flow. Furthermore, as a result of any increased competition for people and risk for higher turnover, we may experience a reduction in the experience level of our personnel, which could lead to higher downtime and more operating incidents. In response to these labor market conditions, we have increased our efforts related to recruitment, training, development and retention programs as required to meet our anticipated personnel needs. Our labor costs and the operating restrictions that apply to us could increase as a result of collective bargaining negotiations and changes in labor laws and regulations. Some of our employees are represented by collective bargaining agreements. The majority of these employees work in Brazil, Nigeria, Norway and the U.K. In addition, some of our contracted labor works under collective bargaining agreements. As part of the legal obligations in some of these agreements, we are required to contribute certain amounts to retirement funds and pension plans and are restricted in our ability to dismiss employees. In addition, many of these represented individuals are working under agreements that are subject to salary negotiation. These negotiations could result in higher personnel costs, other increased costs or increased operating restrictions that could adversely affect our financial performance. An inability to obtain visas and work permits for our employees on a timely basis could hurt our operations and have an adverse effect on our business. Our ability to operate worldwide depends on our ability to obtain the necessary visas and work permits for our personnel to travel in and out of, and to work in, the jurisdictions in which we operate. Governmental actions in some of the jurisdictions in which we operate may make it difficult for us to move our personnel in and out of these jurisdictions by delaying or withholding the approval of these permits. As a result of a change in government enforcement of the immigration policy in Angola, we have recently experienced considerable difficulty in obtaining the necessary visas and work permits for our employees to work in Angola, where we currently operate three rigs. If we are not able to obtain visas and work permits for the employees we need for operating our rigs on a timely basis, we might not be able to perform our obligations under our drilling contracts, which could allow our customers to cancel the contracts. If our customers cancel some of our contracts, and we are unable to secure new contracts on a timely basis and on substantially similar terms, it could adversely affect our consolidated statement of financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 17 The failure to consummate or integrate acquisitions of other businesses and assets in a timely and cost-effective manner could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Acquisition of assets or businesses that expand our drilling and well services operations is an important component of our business strategy. We believe that acquisition opportunities may arise from time to time, and any such acquisition could be significant. Any acquisition could involve the payment by us of a substantial amount of cash, the incurrence of a substantial amount of debt or the issuance of a substantial amount of equity. Certain acquisition and investment opportunities may not result in the consummation of a transaction. In addition, we may not be able to obtain acceptable terms for the required financing for any such acquisition or investment that arises. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that any announcement or consummation of an acquisition would have on the trading price of our common stock. Our future acquisitions present a number of risks, including the risk of incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of acquired operations or assets or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of acquiring operations or assets, the risk of failing to successfully and timely integrate the operations or management of any acquired businesses or assets and the risk of diverting management's attention from existing operations or other priorities. If we fail to consummate and integrate our acquisitions in a timely and cost-effective manner, our financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. In order to execute our growth strategy, we may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us. Our business is capital intensive and, to the extent we do not generate sufficient cash from operations, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity offerings to execute our growth strategy and to fund our capital expenditures. Adequate sources of capital funding may not be available when needed or may not be available on favorable terms. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional equity securities, dilution to the holdings of existing equity holders may result. If funding is insufficient at any time in the future, we may be unable to fund maintenance requirements and acquisitions, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Interest rate fluctuations could affect our earnings and cash flow. In order to finance our growth we have incurred significant amounts of debt. With the exception of some of our bonds and convertible bonds, the large majority of our debt arrangements have floating interest rates. As such, significant movements in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our earnings and cash flow. In order to manage our exposure to interest rate fluctuations, we use interest rate swaps to effectively fix a part of our floating rate debt obligations. The principal amount covered by interest rate swaps is evaluated continuously and determined based on our debt level, our expectations regarding future interest rates and our overall financial risk exposure. As of December 31, 2010, our total net floating rate debt amounted to $6.77 billion of which we had entered into interest rate swap agreements to fix the interest rate for a principal amount of $2.95 billion. A change in tax laws of any country in which we operate could result in a higher tax expense or a higher effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings. We conduct our operations through various subsidiaries in countries throughout the world. Tax laws, regulations and treaties are highly complex and subject to interpretation. Consequently, we are subject to changing tax laws, regulations and treaties in and between countries in which we operate, including treaties between the United States and other nations. Our income tax expense is based upon our interpretation of the tax laws in effect in various countries at the time that the expense was incurred. A change in these tax laws, regulations or treaties, including those in and involving the United States, or in the interpretation thereof, or in the valuation of our deferred tax assets, which is beyond our control could result in a materially higher tax expense or a higher effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings. A loss of a major tax dispute or a successful tax challenge to our operating structure, intercompany pricing policies or the taxable presence of our subsidiaries in certain countries could result in a higher tax rate on our worldwide earnings, which could result in a significant negative impact on our earnings and cash flows from operations. Our income tax returns are subject to review and examination. We do not recognize the benefit of income tax positions we believe are more likely than not to be disallowed upon challenge by a tax authority. If any tax authority successfully challenges our operational structure, intercompany pricing policies or the taxable presence of our subsidiaries in certain countries; or if the terms of certain income tax treaties are interpreted in a manner that is erse to our structure; or if we lose a material tax dispute in any country, our effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings could increase substantially and our earnings and cash flows from operations could be materially adversely affected. 18 While we believe that we are not currently a "passive foreign investment company", or PFIC, and do not anticipate becoming a PFIC, the United States Internal revenue Service, or IRS, could treat us as a PFIC which could have adverse United States federal income tax consequences to United States shareholders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75 percent of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of "passive income" or (2) at least 50 percent of the average value of the corporation's assets produce or are held for the production of those types of "passive income." For purposes of these tests, "passive income" includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business but does not include income derived from the performance of services. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our United States shareholders will face adverse United States federal tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless United States shareholders make an election available under the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (which election could itself have adverse consequences for such shareholders, as discussed below under "Taxation – United States Federal Income Tax Considerations – Passive Foreign Investment Company Status and Significant Tax Consequences"), such shareholders would be subject to United States federal income tax at the then prevailing United States federal income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common shares, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the shareholder's holding period of our common shares. Risks Relating to Our Common Shares Our common share price may be highly volatile. The market price of our common shares has historically fluctuated over a wide range and may continue to fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, such as actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, economic and regulatory trends, general market conditions, rumors and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Over the last year, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Such volatility could adversely affect the market price of our common shares and impact a potential sale price if holders of our common shares decide to sell their shares. Because we are a foreign corporation, you may not have the same rights that a shareholder in a U.S. corporation may have. We are a Bermuda exempted company. Our Memorandum of Association and Bye-laws and the Companies Act, 1981 of Bermuda, or the Companies Act, govern our affairs. The Companies Act does not clearly establish your rights and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors as do statutes and judicial precedent in some U.S. jurisdictions. Therefore, it may be more difficult to protect your interests as a shareholder in relation to the actions of management, directors or controlling shareholders, than it would be for shareholders of U.S. corporations to do the same. There is a statutory remedy under Section 111 of the Companies Act which provides that a shareholder may seek redress in the courts as long as such shareholder can establish that our affairs are being conducted, or have been conducted, in a manner oppressive or prejudicial to the interests of some part of the shareholders, including such shareholder. We are incorporated in Bermuda and it may not be possible for our investors to enforce U.S. judgments against us. We are incorporated in Bermuda and substantially all of our assets are located outside the U.S. In addition, all of our directors and all but one of our executive officers are non-residents of the U.S., and all or a substantial portion of the assets of these non-residents are located outside the U.S. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for U.S. investors to serve process within the U.S. upon us or our directors and executive officers, or to enforce a judgment against us for civil liabilities in U.S. courts. 19 In addition, you should not assume that courts in the countries in which we are incorporated or where our assets are located (1) would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us based upon the civil liability provisions of applicable U.S. federal and state securities laws or (2) would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us based on those laws. We are subject to certain anti-takeover provisions in our constitutional documents. Several provisions of our bye-laws may have anti-takeover effects. These provisions are intended to avoid costly takeover battles, lessen our vulnerability to a hostile change of control and enhance the ability of our board of directors to maximize shareholder value in connection with any unsolicited offer to acquire us. However, these anti-takeover provisions could also discourage, delay or prevent the merger, amalgamation or acquisition of our company by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise, that a shareholder may consider to be in its best interest. For more detailed information, reference is made to Item 10 "Additional Information" of this Annual Report. We depend on directors who are associated with affiliated companies, which may create conflicts of interest. Our principal shareholder, Hemen Holding Ltd., which we refer to as Hemen, is controlled by trusts established by John Fredriksen, our President and Chairman, for the benefit of his immediate family. Hemen also has significant shareholdings in two companies affiliated with us, Frontline Ltd. (NYSE: FRO), or Frontline, and Ship Finance International Limited (NYSE: SFL), or Ship Finance. In addition, Hemen owns approximately 8.9% of our majority-owned subsidiary Seawell Limited, or Seawell. Our Vice-President and director Mr. Tor Olav Trøim is also a director of Seawell (OSE: SEAW). One of our other directors, Kate Blankenship, is also a director of Frontline, Ship Finance and Seawell and another of our directors, Kathrine Fredriksen, the daughter of John Fredriksen, is also a director of Frontline. Mr. Fredriksen, Mr. Trøim, Mrs. Blankenship and Ms. Fredriksen owe fiduciary duties to each of Seadrill, Frontline, Ship Finance and Seawell, and may have conflicts of interest in matters involving or affecting us and our customers. In addition, they may have conflicts of interest when faced with decisions that could have different implications for Frontline, Seawell or Ship Finance than they do for us. We cannot assure you that any of these conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor. Investor confidence may be adversely impacted if we are unable to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires us to include in our annual report on Form 20-F our management's report on, and assessment of, the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm has attested to and reported on management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting for the year ending December 31, 2010 and will be required to do so for the year ending December 31, 2011 and thereafter. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, we will not be in compliance with all of the requirements imposed by Section 404. Any failure to comply with Section 404 could result in an adverse perception of the Company in the financial marketplace. If we enter into drilling contracts with countries or government-controlled entities that are subject to restrictions imposed by the U.S. government, our reputation and the market for our common stock could be adversely affected. From time to time, we may enter into drilling contracts with countries or government-controlled entities that are subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government and/or identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism. Although these sanctions and embargoes do not prevent us from entering into drilling contracts with these countries or government-controlled entities, potential investors could view such drilling contracts negatively, which could adversely affect our reputation and the market for our common stock. In addition, certain institutional investors may have investment policies or restrictions that prevent them from holding securities of companies that have contracts with countries identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism. The determination by these investors not to invest in, or to divest from, our common shares may adversely affect the price at which our common shares trade. Investor perception of the value of our common stock may be adversely affected by the consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest and governmental actions in these and surrounding countries. 20 