ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following important factors, among others, could cause our stock price to fall and our financial condition and operating results to differ materially from those indicated or suggested by forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have incurred losses since inception and anticipate that we will continue to incur increasing losses for the foreseeable future. We are a development stage company with a limited operating history and no revenue. We have incurred losses in each year since our formation in 1999. We currently do not have, and do not expect to have for several years, any products approved for commercialization or any source of revenue. We have been engaged in research and development since our inception and have invested substantially all of our time and resources in developing our Renova™ Cortical Stimulation System. Development of a new medical device, including conducting clinical trials, seeking regulatory approvals and developing markets, is a long, expensive and uncertain process. We expect to continue incurring significant operating losses for at least the next several years. These losses, among other things, have had, and will continue to have, an adverse effect on our shareholders’ equity and working capital. We expect to incur significant clinical and regulatory expenses in connection with our ongoing clinical trials and trials that we may initiate in the future. We also expect our product development expenses to continue in connection with our ongoing and future product development initiatives. In addition, if the FDA approves our Renova Cortical Stimulation System for any indication, we expect to incur significant corporate infrastructure and sales and marketing expenses, prior to recording sufficient revenue to offset these expenses. If we are unable to successfully develop, receive regulatory approval for, and commercialize, our Renova Cortical Stimulation System for any indication, we may never generate revenue or be profitable and we may have to cease operations. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing new medical devices, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if ever. Our success as a company depends heavily on the success of our Renova Cortical Stimulation System. If we are unable to commercialize our Renova system for any reason, including but not limited to the following factors, our ability to generate revenue will be significantly harmed and our stock price will likely decline. Since June 2003 we have invested substantially all of our financial resources and our research and product development efforts in our Renova Cortical Stimulation System. We do not anticipate generating any revenue for several years and may not become profitable until we are well established, if at all. The commercial success of our Renova system depends upon: • completing our ongoing trials and successfully demonstrating the safety and efficacy of our system for the treatment of neurological diseases or disorders; • completing a future pivotal trial that successfully demonstrates the safety and efficacy of our system for an identified indication; • obtaining FDA approval to market our Renova Cortical Stimulation System in the U.S.; • manufacturing our system in commercial quantities; • the commercial launch of our system; and • obtaining levels of reimbursement by governmental and other third party payors, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs and private healthcare insurers. If we do not achieve each of these objectives, we may be unable to commercialize our Renova system or generate any revenue, which would materially and adversely affect our financial position, operating results, and stock price and could force us to cease operations. 11 Table of Contents Our product development programs are based on novel technologies and are inherently risky. We are subject to the risks of failure inherent in the development of products based on new technologies. The use of our Renova system to treat neurological diseases and disorders is a novel application of neurostimulation therapy that has not previously been investigated to any meaningful extent. The novel nature of the application results in significant technical, scientific, and regulatory challenges related to product development and system optimization, government regulation, third-party reimbursement, and market acceptance. No cortical stimulation device for the treatment of neurological diseases and disorders has ever achieved FDA approval or been commercialized. Accordingly, while we believe there would be a commercial market for an FDA-approved cortical stimulation device, there can be no assurance that our Renova system will become a viable commercial alternative to other treatment delivery methods, including other methods based on electrical stimulation of other parts of the brain or nervous system. These challenges may prevent us from developing and commercializing products on a timely and profitable basis, or at all. We may not be successful in our efforts to utilize our cortical stimulation therapy in various applications. A key element of our business strategy is to develop a cortical stimulation technology platform for use in treating multiple neurological diseases and disorders. We are conducting research on different potential applications of our cortical stimulation therapy, each of which may have a unique and discrete mechanism of action. Research to identify new target applications requires substantial technical, financial, and human resources, whether or not any new applications for our cortical stimulation therapy are ultimately identified. We may be unable to identify or pursue other applications of our technology for many reasons, including the following: • the research methodology used may not be successful in identifying other potential applications; • we may not be able to optimize the delivery of our cortical stimulation therapy in a manner that would effectively treat a particular neurological disease or disorder, if such optimization is even possible; • our cortical stimulation therapy may not be suitable for certain other potential applications; • cortical stimulation therapy for certain neurological diseases or disorders may be shown to have harmful side effects or other characteristics that indicate it is unlikely to be effective; • cortical stimulation therapy may be ineffective in treating a sufficiently large patient population with a particular disorder to make further study cost-effective; and • competitors may develop alternatives, including nonsurgical alternatives, that render our cortical stimulation therapy obsolete for treating a particular neurological disease or disorder. Even if we identify a potential new application for our cortical stimulation therapy, investigating the safety and efficacy of our therapy requires extensive clinical testing, which is expensive and time-consuming, and the results of that clinical testing may not be successful. If we terminate a clinical trial in which we have invested significant resources, our prospects will also suffer, as we will have expended resources on a program that will not provide a return on our investment and missed the opportunity to allocate those resources to potentially more productive uses. We will also need to obtain regulatory approval for these new applications, as well as achieve market acceptance and an acceptable level of reimbursement. If we are unable to complete, or experience delays in completing, our clinical trials, or if our clinical trial results are insufficient in meeting clinical or regulatory objectives, our ability to commercialize our Renova Cortical Stimulation System and our financial position will be impaired. Conducting clinical trials is a long, expensive, complex, and uncertain process. The length of time required to conduct a clinical trial varies based on a number of factors, including the treatment plan for the particular neurological disease or disorder, the type of device being tested, the complexity of clinical trial design, regulatory compliance requirements, and the rate of patient enrollment for the clinical trials. Conducting clinical 12 Table of Contents trials involves screening, assessing, testing, treating, and monitoring patients at clinical sites, and coordinating with patients and clinical institutions as well as with neurologists, neurosurgeons, radiologists, and other medical specialists. As a result, we may experience obstacles in completing any of our clinical trials or they could be delayed or cancelled for several reasons, including: • patients may not enroll, randomize, or complete the clinical trials at the rate we expect; • patient attrition rates may significantly exceed our expected attrition rates; • patients may experience serious device or procedure-related adverse events, causing us, a clinical site Institutional Review Board, or IRB, the FDA, or other regulatory authorities to place the clinical trial on hold; • clinical investigators may not perform the trial on schedule or consistent with the trial protocol, regulations, and good clinical practices; and • regulatory inspections of the trial or manufacturing facilities may result in our being required to undertake corrective action or suspend or terminate our clinical trial if inspectors find us to be out of compliance with regulatory requirements. In addition, unanticipated adverse device events, or UADEs, during our clinical trials could cause us to repeat or terminate a trial, or cancel an entire development program. Since the core elements of our cortical stimulation system are relatively the same for different applications, UADEs in one clinical trial or indication may have implications or impact other indications or programs. If our clinical trials are delayed, it will take longer to commercialize related products and achieve revenue. In addition, our research and development costs will likely increase if we experience material delays in our clinical trials or if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. Our research and development programs are at an early stage. If the results of our feasibility studies or clinical trials are initially positive, it is possible that we will obtain different results during pivotal trials or that initial results seen in clinical trials will not continue with longer term treatment. Devices in late stages of clinical development may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy traits despite having progressed through initial clinical testing. For example, the results of our early clinical trials for stroke motor recovery were not repeated in our EVEREST pivotal trial. Future clinical trials of any or all of our cortical stimulation devices could be unsuccessful, which would prevent us from commercializing the Renova Cortical Stimulation System. The FDA conducts its own independent analysis of some or all of the preclinical and clinical trial data submitted in a regulatory filing and often comes to different and potentially more negative conclusions than the analysis we performed. Our failure to develop safe, commercially viable devices approved by the FDA would substantially impair our ability to generate revenues and sustain our operations and would materially harm our business and adversely affect our stock price. We may not secure regulatory approval for our Renova Cortical Stimulation System or any other products that we may develop in the future, even if we believe our clinical trial results demonstrate the efficacy of our cortical stimulation therapy. We cannot market our products unless the FDA has approved, or cleared them. Even if we submit an application to the FDA with clinical data that we believe justifies marketing approval for the Renova Cortical Stimulation System or any other product we may develop in the future, the FDA may not approve our submission, or may request additional information, including data from additional clinical trials. The FDA may also approve our system or any other product for very limited purposes with many restrictions on its use, may delay approval, or ultimately may not grant marketing approval for our system. Because our system represents a novel way to treat neurological diseases and disorders such as depression and stroke and there are large populations of patients who might be eligible for treatment, and due to the recent lack of success with our 13 Table of Contents EVEREST pivotal trial for stroke motor recovery, it is possible that the FDA and other regulatory bodies will review an application for approval of our Renova system with greater scrutiny, thereby causing the regulatory review process to be lengthier and more involved than that for products without such characteristics. There can be no assurance that the FDA will approve our Renova Cortical Stimulation System for the treatment of any indication, even if the clinical trial data meets or exceeds our anticipated levels of safety and efficacy. Even if our Renova Cortical Stimulation System is approved by regulatory authorities, if we fail to comply with ongoing regulation, or if we experience unanticipated problems with our products, our products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market, and we and/or our suppliers could be subject to legal action. Any product for which we obtain approval to market will be subject to ongoing regulation, including inspections by the FDA and other regulatory agencies of our products’ manufacturing processes, compliance with Quality System Regulations, and review of post-market approval data, as well as review of our promotional activities. Even if regulatory approval of a product is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses or populations for which the product may be marketed. For example, we might be limited to marketing our Renova system for only a subpopulation of patients, which could significantly reduce the size of the potential market. As a condition of approval, the FDA may mandate a post-market approval trial, which will entail greater clinical costs. In addition, if the data from an FDA-mandated post-market approval trial are not obtained, we may incur additional costs and continued FDA oversight. Furthermore, later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products, including UADEs, manufacturer or manufacturing problems, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of the products from the market, voluntary or mandatory recall, fines, suspension of regulatory approvals, product seizures, injunctions, or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. The manufacturing facilities of our suppliers must comply with applicable regulatory requirements. If these manufacturing facilities do not maintain or receive regulatory approval, our business and our results of operations would be harmed. Completion of our clinical trials and commercialization of our Renova system require access to manufacturing facilities that meet applicable regulatory standards to manufacture a sufficient supply of our products. We rely primarily on third parties to manufacture, assemble, and sterilize our system. The FDA must determine that compliance is satisfactory at facilities that manufacture our products. Suppliers of some components of our products must also comply with FDA regulation, which often requires significant time, money, and record-keeping and quality assurance efforts, and subjects us and our suppliers to potential regulatory inspections and stoppages. Our suppliers may not satisfy these requirements. If the FDA finds their compliance status to be unsatisfactory, completion of our clinical trials could be delayed, which would harm our business and our results of operations. Our Renova Cortical Stimulation System may never achieve market acceptance or adequate levels of reimbursement even if we obtain regulatory approvals. Market acceptance of our Renova Cortical Stimulation System will depend on successfully communicating the benefits of our cortical stimulation therapy to each of the different constituencies involved in deciding whether to treat a particular patient using cortical stimulation therapy: • the patients and their families; • the various healthcare providers, and other specialists who treat patients with neurological diseases and disorders; • institutions such as hospitals and, as applicable, rehabilitation centers, as well as opinion leaders in these institutions; and • third party payors, such as private healthcare insurers and Medicare, which would ultimately bear most of the costs for the various providers and medical devices involved in the procedures. 14 Table of Contents Marketing to each of these constituencies requires a different approach, and we must convince each of these groups of the efficacy and utility of using our Renova Cortical Stimulation System to be successful. Our ability to market our system successfully to each of these constituencies will depend on a number of factors, including: • the perceived effectiveness and long term results of our therapy; • the level of education and awareness among physicians, and potential patients and their families, concerning our therapy; • acceptance of the measures used to assess the efficacy of our therapy; • the price of our system and the associated costs of the surgical procedure and treatment; • the availability of sufficient third party coverage or reimbursement; • the frequency and severity of any side effects; • the willingness of patients to undergo surgery; and • the availability and perceived advantages and disadvantages of alternative treatments. If our cortical stimulation therapy does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by the relevant constituencies, we may not generate significant product revenue and may not become profitable. If we fail to obtain adequate levels of reimbursement for our products by the government and other third party payors, there may be no commercially viable markets for our Renova Cortical Stimulation System or other products we may develop or our target markets may be much smaller than expected. The availability and levels of reimbursement by government and other third party payors, such as Medicare, Medicaid, and private healthcare insurers, will substantially affect the markets for cortical stimulation therapy and our ability to commercialize our Renova Cortical Stimulation System for any future indications. The efficacy, safety, ease of use, and cost-effectiveness of our system, and of any competing products, will in part determine the availability and level of reimbursement. In particular, we expect that securing reimbursement for our system will be more difficult if our future clinical trials do not demonstrate levels of improvement that healthcare providers and patients consider clinically meaningful, whether or not regulatory agencies consider the improvement of patients treated in clinical trials to have been clinically meaningful. Reimbursement also may be more difficult to obtain if payors view our system as adding to their costs because our therapy may be delivered to patients who are not otherwise receiving a significant amount of reimbursed therapy. Moreover, the novelty of cortical stimulation to treat patients will likely complicate the establishment of a uniform and favorable reimbursement policy. We expect that both government and third party payors will continue to attempt to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare by challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and services. If reimbursement for our Renova Cortical Stimulation System, the related surgery, and hospital stay, is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, market acceptance of our system may be impaired and our future revenue, if any, may be materially and adversely affected. We depend on a limited number of manufacturers and single source suppliers of various key components for our Renova Cortical Stimulation System. The loss of any of these manufacturer or supplier relationships could delay our clinical trials or prevent or delay commercialization of our Renova Cortical Stimulation System. We rely primarily on third parties to manufacture our Renova Cortical Stimulation System and to supply us with all of the key components of our system, including our IPGs, cortical stimulation leads and handheld programmers. We have entered into multi-year agreements with our manufacturers and primary suppliers that generally require us to fulfill all of our manufacturing needs and purchase all of our worldwide requirements for 15 Table of Contents components from these parties. These agreements expire during 2010. There is no overlap among these suppliers, insofar as we obtain each of our components from a single supplier. There are a limited number of alternative suppliers that are capable of manufacturing the components of system, and the terms of our agreements significantly limit our ability to work with other suppliers to ensure backup sources of our components. If any of our existing suppliers was unable or unwilling to meet our demand for product components, or if the components or finished products that they supply do not meet quality and other specifications, our clinical trials could be delayed and the development of our Renova system could be delayed or prevented. If we have to switch to a replacement manufacturer or replacement supplier for any of our product components, we may face additional regulatory delays, and the manufacture and delivery of our system could be interrupted for an extended period of time, which could delay completion of our clinical trials. In addition, we may be required to obtain regulatory approval from the FDA to use different suppliers or components. To date, our component requirements have consisted only of the limited quantities that we need to conduct our clinical trials. However, if we obtain market approval for our Renova Cortical Stimulation System, we anticipate that we will require substantially larger quantities of various components. Our suppliers may not provide us with sufficient quantities of necessary components in a timely manner that meet quality and other specifications, and we may not be able to locate an alternative supplier in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We may also have difficulty obtaining similar components from other suppliers that are acceptable to the FDA. Even if we obtain regulatory approval to commercialize our Renova Cortical Stimulation System, we will need to develop an infrastructure, or contract with a third party, capable of successfully marketing and selling our products. To generate sales, we will need to develop a sales and marketing infrastructure or contract with a third party to perform that function. We currently have limited marketing capabilities and have no sales capabilities. Establishing these capabilities will be expensive and time-consuming. We may be unable to develop an effective sales and marketing organization. If we are unable to establish and maintain effective sales and marketing capabilities, independently or with others, we may not be able to generate product revenue and may not become profitable. Some of the potential applications of our cortical stimulation therapy system will likely involve implanting an electrode below the dura, the outermost membrane covering the brain, which involves additional risks. To achieve the maximum benefit from our cortical stimulation therapy system, we believe that for some applications, the electrode through which cortical stimulation is provided may be implanted below the dura. In all of our completed and ongoing clinical trials, the electrode is or has been implanted on the dura. Implanting the electrode grid below the dura may involve additional risks, including the risk that any infections that might occur could be more serious than if the electrode were implanted on the dura, and a risk of a subdural hemorrhage. These additional risks may adversely affect the willingness of potential patients to participate in our clinical trials, and the safety profile of our products in these potential applications, which could make regulatory approval and market acceptance less likely. The medical device and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. If our competitors are able to develop and market products that are safer or more effective than our products, our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated. The medical device and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. In particular, the neuromodulation industry in which we operate has grown significantly in recent years, and is expected to continue to expand as technology continues to evolve and awareness of neuromodulation as an effective or potential therapy for many applications expands. We face potential competition from other neuromodulation technologies, off-label use of current technologies, and currently available, non-invasive, 16 Table of Contents therapies that are medically accepted for treating large populations of patients affected by neurological diseases and disorders for which reimbursement levels are already or may be established. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals, and marketing approved products than we do. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly if they pursue competing solutions through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. Our competitors may: • develop and patent processes or products earlier than us; • obtain regulatory approvals for competing products more rapidly than us; or • develop more effective, safer, less-invasive, or less-expensive products or technologies. The field of human therapeutics is characterized by large public and private investment in existing and new technologies, constant evolution, and occasional breakthrough products that revolutionize treatment of a particular disease or disorder. It is possible that, even if we successfully commercialize a product, subsequent pharmaceutical or medical device breakthroughs would render our product non-competitive or obsolete. Some of the potential applications of our Renova Cortical Stimulation System will likely require sustained delivery of electrical stimulation, which involves additional risks. Some of the applications for our cortical stimulation therapy system that we are studying, such as the treatment of depression, will likely require a long-term implant and sustained delivery of electrical stimulation to the cortex. Long-term implants and sustained delivery of stimulation may involve additional challenges and risks, including the following: • the battery in our current IPG is not rechargeable, and IPG replacements in patients may be necessary to support sustained electrical stimulation; • the therapeutic effect on the patient may not be sustained; • the clinical trials necessary to support FDA approval of a long-term implantable device that delivers sustained electrical stimulation will likely take longer, and may require longer term follow-up data for such trials; and • the FDA may require additional data. We will need substantial additional funding and may not be able to raise capital when needed, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. We believe that our cash, cash equivalents and investments will be sufficient to fund our continuing operations and other demands and commitments into 2011. Prior to that we may elect to raise substantial additional capital to: • continue our research and development programs; • commercialize our Renova Cortical Stimulation System, if approved by the FDA, for commercial sale; and • fund our ongoing operations. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the scope, rate of progress, and cost of our clinical trials and other research and development activities; • clinical trial results; • the costs and timing of regulatory approvals; • the working capital required for general and administrative expenses; 17 Table of Contents • the cost and timing of establishing sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; • the cost of establishing clinical and potential commercial supplies of our Renova Cortical Stimulation System and any other products that we may develop; • the rate of market acceptance of our device; • the effect of competing products and market developments; • any revenue generated by sales of our future products; • the cost of filing and prosecuting patent applications and defending and enforcing our patent and other intellectual property rights; • the cost of defending, in litigation or otherwise, any claims that we infringe third party patent or other intellectual property rights; • the cost of defending other litigation or disputes with third parties; and • the extent to which we acquire or invest in businesses, products, and technologies. Until the time, if ever, when we can generate a sufficient amount of product revenue, we expect to finance our future cash needs through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, corporate collaboration, or licensing arrangements, as well as through income earned on cash and investment balances. Additional capital may not be available on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our shareholders will experience dilution. Debt financing, if available, would likely involve restrictive covenants or additional security interests in our assets. Examples of such restrictive covenants may include limitations on our ability to incur additional debt or liens on any of our assets, dispose of our property, make dividend payments or distributions to our shareholders, or enter into certain transactions that would result in a change in control. Any additional debt or equity financing may contain terms that are not favorable to our shareholders or us. If we raise additional funds through collaboration or licensing arrangements with third parties, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies or products, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are unable to raise adequate funds, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate some or all of, our development programs, or liquidate some or all of our assets. We may be unable to attract and retain management and other personnel we need to succeed. Our success depends substantially on the services of our senior management and other key employees. The loss of the services of one or more of these employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. Each of our officers may terminate his or her employment without notice and without cause or good reason. We do not carry key person life insurance on any of our officers. We have historically used stock options as key components of our total employee compensation program. Many of our outstanding stock options have exercise prices in excess of our stock price, which reduces their value to employees and could affect our ability to retain present and attract prospective employees. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees. We cannot be certain that we will be able to do so. The financial reporting obligations of being a public company and other laws and regulations relating to corporate governance matters place significant demands on our management and cause increased costs. The laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and new rules adopted or proposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission, will result in ongoing costs to us as we comply with new and existing rules and regulations and respond to requirements under such rules and regulations. We are required to comply with many of these rules and regulations, and will be required to comply with additional rules and regulations in the future. As an early development stage company with limited capital and human resources, management’s time and attention will be diverted from our business in 18 Table of Contents order to ensure compliance with these regulatory requirements. This diversion of management’s time and attention as well as ongoing legal and compliance costs may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure of the our internal control over financial reporting could harm our business and financial results. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Internal control over financial reporting includes: (i) maintaining reasonably detailed records that accurately and fairly reflect our transactions; and (ii) providing reasonable assurance that we (a) record transactions as necessary to prepare the financial statements, (b) make receipts and expenditures in accordance with management authorizations, and (c) would timely prevent or detect any unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that we would prevent or detect a misstatement of our financial statements or fraud. Changes in our business will place additional pressure on our system of internal control over financial reporting. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. A significant financial reporting failure could cause an immediate loss of investor confidence and our management and a sharp decline in the market price of our common stock. If we do not achieve our projected business goals in the time frames we announce and expect, our stock price may decline. From time to time, we estimate and publicly announce expectations for future financial results and the anticipated timing of the accomplishment of various clinical, regulatory and product development goals. These statements, which are forward-looking statements, include but are not limited to our estimates regarding cash use, operating losses, cortical stimulation applications that we expect to pursue, patient enrollment in our clinical trials, when we expect to complete our clinical trials, when trial data will be publicly disclosed, and when we expect to obtain FDA approval for or begin to receive revenue from any of our products. These estimates are, and must necessarily be, based on a variety of assumptions. The timing of the actual achievement of these milestones may vary dramatically compared to our estimates, in some cases for reasons beyond our control. Our failure to meet any publicly-announced goals may be perceived negatively by the public markets, and, as a result, our stock price may decline. We face the risk of product liability claims and may not be able to obtain adequate insurance. Our business exposes us to a risk of product liability claims that is inherent in the testing, manufacturing, and marketing of medical devices. We may be subject to product liability claims if our Renova Cortical Stimulation System, or any other products we sell, causes, or appears to have caused, an injury. Claims may be made by consumers, healthcare providers, third party strategic collaborators or others selling our products. We have a product liability insurance policy, which covers the use of our products in our clinical trials, of which the amount we believe is appropriate. Our current product liability insurance may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, and, if available, the coverage may not be adequate to protect us against any future product liability claims. If we are unable to obtain insurance at an acceptable cost and on acceptable terms for an adequate coverage amount or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims, we could be exposed to significant liabilities, which may harm our business. A product liability claim, recall, or other claim with respect to uninsured liabilities or for amounts in excess of insured liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These liabilities could prevent or interfere with our ongoing clinical programs or future commercialization efforts. Defending a suit, regardless of merit, could be costly, could divert management attention and might result in adverse publicity, which could result in the withdrawal of, or inability to recruit, clinical trial volunteers. 19 Table of Contents We may be subject to product liability claims even if it appears that the claimed injury is due to the actions of others. For example, we rely on the expertise of surgeons, other physicians, therapists, and other medical personnel to perform the medical procedures to implant and remove our Renova system and participate in other facets of our therapies. If these medical personnel are not properly trained or are negligent, the therapeutic effect of our system may be diminished or the patient may suffer critical injury, which may subject us to liability. In addition, an injury that is caused by the negligence of one of our suppliers could be the basis for a claim against us. We may be unable to manage our company’s growth effectively. If we engage in a pivotal clinical trial or commercialization efforts in the future, our business will undergo significant growth. For example, we will have to expand existing operations in order to conduct a pivotal trial and additional clinical trials, increase our contract manufacturing capabilities, hire and train new personnel to handle the marketing and sales of our products, assist in obtaining reimbursement for the use of our products, and create and develop new applications for our technology. Such growth may place significant strain on our management, financial and operational resources. Successful growth is also dependent upon our ability to implement appropriate financial and management controls, systems, and procedures. Our ability to effectively manage growth depends on our success in attracting and retaining highly qualified personnel, for which the competition may be intense. If we fail to manage these challenges effectively, our business could be harmed. Risks Related to Intellectual Property If we are unable to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights relating to our technology and cortical stimulation therapy system, the commercial value of our technology and any future products will be adversely affected and our competitive position will be harmed. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain protection in the United States and other countries for our cortical stimulation therapy system and processes by establishing and maintaining intellectual property rights relating to or incorporated into our technology and products. While we hold a number of patents in the neurostimulation field, several other companies also hold patents in the field. In particular, there are several patents and patent applications that address neurostimulation for the treatment of depression, which is one of the applications that we are evaluating. Our pending and future patent applications may not issue as patents or, if issued, may not issue in a form that will provide us any competitive advantage. Even if issued, existing or future patents may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products or limit the length of term of patent protection we may have for our products. Changes in patent laws, patent rules, or their interpretations in the United States and other countries could also diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. In addition, the availability of patents in foreign markets, and the nature of any protection against competition that may be afforded by those patents, is often difficult to predict and vary significantly from country to country. We, our licensors, or our licensees may choose not to seek, or may be unable to obtain, patent protection in a country that could potentially be an important market for our Renova system. The confidentiality agreements that are designed to protect our trade secrets could be breached, and we might not have adequate remedies for the breach. Additionally, our trade secrets and proprietary know-how might otherwise become known or be independently discovered by others. As a result, our patent portfolio may not provide us with sufficient rights to exclude others from commercializing products similar or identical to ours. In order to preserve and enforce our patent and other intellectual property rights, we may need to make claims or file lawsuits against third parties. This can entail significant costs to us and divert our management’s attention from developing and commercializing our products. If we infringe or are alleged to infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, our business could be adversely affected. Our cortical stimulation therapy may infringe or be claimed to infringe patents that we do not own or license, including patents that may issue in the future based on patent applications of which we are currently 20 Table of Contents aware, as well as applications of which we are unaware. We are aware of other companies that are investigating neurostimulation, including deep brain stimulation, vagus nerve stimulation, and rTMS, as well as cortical stimulation, and of certain patents and published patent applications held by companies in those fields that may limit our ability to secure patent protection for certain of our technologies. While the applicability of such patents and patent applications to our products and technologies under development and validity of these patents and patent applications are uncertain, third parties who own or control these patents and patent applications in the United States and abroad, could bring claims against us that could cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, could cause us to pay substantial damages and would divert management’s attention. As the number of competitors in the market for the treatment of neurological diseases and disorders, specifically with neurostimulation treatment grows, the possibility of inadvertent patent infringement by us or a patent infringement claim against us increases. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us, we could be forced to delay or abandon commercialization of the product that is the subject of the suit. As a result of patent infringement claims, or to avoid potential claims, we may choose or be required to seek a license from the third party and be required to pay license fees or royalties, or both. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which could result in our competitors gaining access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, we are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. This could harm our business significantly. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and products could be adversely affected. In addition to patented technology, we rely on our unpatented proprietary technology, trade secrets, processes, and know-how. We generally seek to protect this information by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, scientific advisors and third parties. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. To the extent that our employees, consultants or contractors use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. Risks Related to Our Common Stock If our stock price is volatile, purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. Our stock price has recently been highly volatile and is likely to continue to be volatile. The stock market in general and the market for small healthcare companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: • results of our clinical trials; • delays in enrolling or conducting our ongoing clinical trials, or other developments concerning ongoing clinical trials; • delays or failures in submitting applications for, or obtaining, regulatory approvals for clinical trials or commercial marketing efforts; • failure of any of our future products, if approved for commercial sale, to achieve commercial success; • regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; • regulatory issues related to our quality systems; • developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; 21 Table of Contents • ability to develop or manufacture our products; • public concern over our products; • introduction of competing products; • litigation or other disputes with third parties; • departure of key personnel; • sales or anticipated sales of our common stock; • variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us; • changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems; • investors’ perceptions of us; and • general economic, industry and market conditions. A decline in the market price of our common stock could cause investors to lose some or all of their investment and may adversely impact our ability to attract and retain employees and raise capital. In addition, because of the past significant declines in our stock price, shareholders may initiate securities class action lawsuits against us, which may cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of our management. We are at risk of securities class action litigation due to our stock price volatility. We are at risk of being subject to securities class action lawsuits if our stock price declines substantially. Securities class action litigation has often been brought against other companies following a decline in the market price of its securities, such as the stock price decline that we experienced in late January 2008 following our announcement that our EVEREST pivotal trial did not meet its primary endpoint. While no securities class action claims have been brought against us, it is possible that lawsuits will be filed based on such stock price decline naming our company, directors, and officers. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs, divert management’s attention and resources, and seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If there are substantial sales of common stock, our stock price could decline. If our existing shareholders sell a large number of shares of common stock or the public market perceives that existing shareholders might sell shares of common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. Additionally, the potential sale of additional shares of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline. We have an effective Registration Statement on Form S-3 that enables us to offer and sell up to an aggregate of $100 million shares of our common stock. The potential sale of additional shares of our common stock may be dilutive to our shares outstanding and may cause our stock price to decrease. Anti-takeover defenses that we have in place could prevent or frustrate attempts to change our direction or management. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and applicable provisions of Washington law may make it more difficult or impossible for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions: • limit who may call a special meeting of shareholders; • provide for a classified board of directors; • provide that our board of directors may only be removed for cause by the affirmative vote of our shareholders; 22 Table of Contents • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on at shareholder meetings; • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of our directors; and • provide our board of directors the ability to designate the terms of and issue a new series of preferred stock without shareholder approval. In addition, the Washington Business Corporation Act generally prohibits us from engaging in any business combination with certain persons who acquire 10% or more of our voting securities without the prior approval of our board of directors for a period of five years following the date such person acquires the shares. We cannot “opt out” of this statute. These provisions may have the effect of entrenching our management team and may deprive investors of the opportunity to sell their shares to potential acquirors at a premium over prevailing prices. This potential inability to obtain a control premium could reduce the price of our common stock. Failure to satisfy NASDAQ Global Market listing requirements may result in our common stock being delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol “NSTR.” For continued inclusion on the NASDAQ Global Market, we must maintain, among other requirements, shareholders’ equity of at least $10 million, a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share and a market value of our public float of at least $5 million; or market capitalization of at least $50 million, a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share and a market value of our public float of at least $15 million. If we fail to meet a closing bid price of our common stock of $1.00 for 30 consecutive business days, our common stock could be at risk of being delisted. In the event that we fail to satisfy any of the listing standards on a continuous basis, our common stock could be removed from listing on the NASDAQ Global Market. If our common stock were delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market, our common stock may be transferred to the NASDAQ Capital Market if we satisfy the listing criteria for the NASDAQ Capital Market, or trading of our common stock, if any, may be conducted in the over-the-counter market in the so-called “pink sheets” or, if available, the National Association of Securities Dealer’s “Electronic Bulletin Board.” Consequently, broker-dealers may be less willing or able to sell and/or make a market in our common stock. Additionally, an investor would find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations for the price of, our common stock. A delisting would likely also make it more difficult for us to raise funds through the sale of our securities. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock or other securities, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, our shareholders will not realize a return on their investment unless the trading price of our common stock appreciates. Our common stock may not appreciate in value and may not maintain the price at which investors purchased shares. 