ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSWe are subject to numerous known and unknown risks, many of which are presented below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the risk factors described below or additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Risks Relating to Our IndustriesOur refining margins have been volatile and are likely to remain volatile, which may have a material adverse effect on our earnings and cash flows.Our earnings, cash flow and profitability from our refining operations are substantially determined by the difference between the market price of refined products and the market price of crude oil, which is referred to as the crack spread or refining margin. Refining margins historically have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile, as a result of numerous factors beyond our control, including volatility in the prices of the various types of crude oil and other feedstocks purchased by our refineries, volatility in the costs of natural gas and electricity used by our refineries, and volatility in the prices of gasoline and other refined petroleum products sold by our refineries. Our acquisition of the El Dorado refinery in April 2011 more than doubled our refining capacity and increased our exposure to this volatility.For example, although there are differences between published prices and margins and those experienced in our operations, certain published data illustrate the volatility we encounter. The NYMEX price for domestic light sweet crude oil (NYMEX: CL), the U.S. Gulf Coast price for unleaded gasoline (Platts U.S. Gulf Coast Pipeline Conventional 87 CBOB) and the Gulf Coast 5-3-2 crack spread have fluctuated between the following highs and lows during the preceding three calendar years: Year Ended Year Ended Year Ended December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Low High Low High Low High NYMEX crude oil (per barrel) $75.67 $113.93 $68.01 $91.51 $33.98 $81.37US Gulf Coast Unleaded Gasoline (per gallon) $2.31 $3.40 $1.83 $2.41 $1.04 $2.05US Gulf Coast crack spread (per barrel) $10.40 $36.64 $4.58 $14.26 $1.89 $18.9722Such volatility is affected by, among other things:•changes in global and local economic conditions;•domestic and foreign supply and demand for crude oil and refined products;•investor speculation in commodities;•worldwide political conditions, particularly in significant oil producing regions such as the Middle East, Africa, the former Soviet Union, and South America;•the level of foreign and domestic production of crude oil and refined petroleum products;•the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to maintain oil price and production controls;•pricing and other actions taken by competitors that impact the market;•the level of crude oil, other feedstocks and refined petroleum products imported into and exported out of the United States;•excess capacity and utilization rates of refineries worldwide;•development and marketing of alternative and competing fuels, such as ethanol and biodiesel;•changes in fuel specifications required by environmental and other laws, particularly with respect to oxygenates and sulfur content;•events that cause disruptions in our distribution channels;•local factors, including market conditions, adverse weather conditions and the level of operations of other refineries and pipelines in our markets;•accidents, interruptions in transportation, inclement weather or other events that can cause unscheduled shutdowns or otherwise adversely affect our refineries or the supply and delivery of crude oil from third parties; and•U.S. government regulations.The crude oil we purchase and the refined products we sell are commodities whose prices are mainly determined by market forces beyond our control. While an increase or decrease in the price of crude oil will often result in a corresponding increase or decrease in the wholesale price of refined products, a change in the price of one commodity does not always result in a corresponding change in the other. A substantial or prolonged increase in crude oil prices without a corresponding increase in refined product prices or a substantial or prolonged decrease in refined product prices without a corresponding decrease in crude oil prices could also have a significant negative effect on our results of operations and cash flows. This is especially true for non-transportation refined products such as asphalt, butane, coke, sulfur, propane and slurry whose prices are less likely to correlate to fluctuations in the price of crude oil, all of which we produce at our refineries. In addition, our Tyler refinery has historically processed primarily light sweet crude oils, while our El Dorado refinery processes primarily sour crude oils. Due to increasing demand for lower sulfur fuels, light sweet crude oils have historically been more costly than heavy sour crude oils, and an increase in the cost of light sweet crude oils could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, the price for a significant portion of the crude oil processed at our refineries is based upon the WTI benchmark for such oil rather than the Brent benchmark. Although these two benchmarks have historically been similarly priced, elevated inventories of WTI-priced crude oil in the Mid-Continent have caused WTI prices to fall significantly below the Brent benchmark in recent months. During the year ended December 31, 2011, this differential ranged from a high of $27.88 to a low of $3.29. A substantial or prolonged narrowing in (or inversion to) the price differential between the WTI and Brent benchmarks for any reason, including, without limitation, actual or perceived reductions in Mid-Continent inventories, could negatively impact our earnings and cash flows. In addition, because the premium or discount we pay for a portion of the crude oil processed at our refineries is established based upon this differential during the month prior to the month in which the crude oil is processed, rapid decreases in the differential may negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows.Finally, higher refined product prices often result in negative consequences for our retail operations such as higher credit card expenses (because credit card interchange fees are typically calculated as a percentage of the transaction amount rather than a percentage of gallons sold), lower retail fuel gross margin per gallon, reduced demand for refined products, fewer retail gallons sold and fewer retail merchandise transactions.23We operate in a highly regulated industry and increased costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future laws, regulations and other requirements could significantly increase our costs of doing business, thereby adversely affecting our profitability.Our industry is subject to extensive laws, regulations and other requirements including, but not limited to, those relating to the environment, safety, pipeline tariffs, employment, labor, immigration, minimum wages and overtime pay, health care and benefits, working conditions, public accessibility, the sale of alcohol and tobacco and other requirements. These laws and regulations are enforced by federal agencies including the EPA, the DOT / PHMSA / FMCSA, the OSHA and the FERC, and state agencies such as the TCEQ and ADEQ, the TRRC and the TDEC as well as numerous other state and federal agencies. A violation of any of these requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, OSHA and the EPA commenced investigations of the Tyler refinery following the accident that occurred there in November 2008. OSHA concluded its inspection in May 2009 and issued citations assessing an aggregate penalty of approximately $0.2 million. We are contesting the citations and fines and do not believe the outcome will have a material effect on our business. The investigation is ongoing and we cannot assure you as to the outcome of the EPA's investigation including any possible penalties that may arise.Ongoing compliance with laws, regulations and other requirements could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under various federal, state and local environmental requirements, as the owner or operator of refineries and retail locations, we may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of contamination at our existing or former locations, whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of such contamination. We have incurred such liability in the past and several of our current and former locations are the subject of ongoing remediation projects. The failure to timely report and properly remediate contamination may subject us to liability to third parties and may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent our property or to borrow money using our property as collateral. Additionally, persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances also may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of these substances at sites where they are located, regardless of whether the site is owned or operated by that person. We typically arrange for the treatment or disposal of hazardous substances in our refining operations. We do not typically do so in our retail operations, but we may nonetheless be deemed to have arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances. Therefore, we may be liable for removal or remediation costs, as well as other related costs, including fines, penalties and damages resulting from injuries to persons, property and natural resources. In the future, we may incur substantial expenditures for investigation or remediation of contamination that has not been discovered at our current or former locations or locations that we may acquire.In addition, new legal requirements, new interpretations of existing legal requirements, increased legislative activity and governmental enforcement and other developments could require us to make additional unforeseen expenditures. Companies in the petroleum industry, such as us, are often the target of activist and regulatory activity regarding pricing, safety, environmental compliance, derivatives trading and other business practices which could result in price controls, fines, increased taxes or other actions affecting the conduct of our business. For example, consumer activists are lobbying various authorities to enact laws and regulations mandating the removal of tetra-ethyl lead from aviation gasoline. Others activists seek to require the use of temperature compensation devices for fuel dispensed at our retail stores.Various legislative and regulatory measures to address climate change and GHG emissions (including carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxides) are in various phases of discussion or implementation. They include proposed and newly enacted federal regulation and state actions to develop statewide, regional or nationwide programs designed to control and reduce GHG emissions from fixed sources, such as our refineries, as well as mobile transportation sources. Although it is not possible to predict the requirements of any GHG legislation that may be enacted, any laws or regulations that have been or may be adopted to restrict or reduce GHG emissions will likely require us to incur increased operating costs. If we are unable to maintain sales of our refined products at a price that reflects such increased costs, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, any increase in the prices of refined products resulting from such increased costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.Since the 2010 calendar year, EPA rules require us to report GHG emissions from our refinery operations and consumer use of products produced at our refineries on an annual basis. While the cost of compliance with the rule is not material, data gathered under the rule may be used in the future to support additional regulation of GHGs. In January 2011, the EPA began regulating GHG emissions from refineries and other major sources through the PSD and Federal Operating Permit (Title V) programs. While these rules do not impose any limits or controls on GHG emissions from current operations, emission increases from future projects or operational changes, such as capacity increases, may be impacted and required to meet emission limits or technological requirements such as Best Available Control Technologies. The EPA has announced its intent for further regulation of refinery GHG emissions through a New Source Performance Standard ("NSPS") to be finalized in 2012. GHG regulation could also impact the consumption of refined products, thereby affecting our refinery operations.24The EPA issued final rules for gasoline formulation that require the reduction of average benzene content beginning January 1, 2011. We currently purchase credits to comply with these content requirements for one of our refineries but there can be no assurance that such credits will be available or that we will continue to be able to purchase available credits at reasonable prices. Finally, the EPA has announced their intention to propose or finalize additional Maximum Achievable Control Technologies and NSPSs in 2012 for a variety of refinery sources (such as cokers, flares, boilers/heaters and other process units) as well as Tier 3 gasoline standards that would require a further reduction in sulfur content and vapor pressure. Compliance with any future legislation or regulation of temperature compensation, GHG emissions, sulfur, benzene or other toxic content or vapor pressure may result in increased capital and operating costs and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Environmental regulation is becoming more stringent and new environmental laws and regulations are continuously being enacted or proposed. While it is impractical to predict the impact that potential regulatory and activist activity may have, such future activity may result in increased costs to operate and maintain our facilities, as well as increased capital outlays to improve our facilities. Such future activity could also adversely affect our ability to expand production, result in damaging publicity about us, or reduce demand for our products. Our need to incur costs associated with complying with any resulting new legal or regulatory requirements that are substantial and not adequately provided for, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We operate independent refineries which may not be able to withstand volatile market conditions, compete on the basis of price or obtain sufficient quantities of crude oil in times of shortage to the same extent as integrated, multinational oil companies.We compete with a broad range of companies in our refining and petroleum product marketing operations. Many of these competitors are integrated, multinational oil companies that are substantially larger than we are. Because of their diversity, integration of operations, larger capitalization, larger and more complex refineries and greater resources, these companies may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions relating to crude oil and refined product pricing, to compete on the basis of price and to obtain crude oil in times of shortage.We do not engage in the petroleum exploration and production business and therefore do not produce any of our own crude oil feedstocks. Certain of our competitors, however, obtain a portion of their feedstocks from company-owned production. Competitors that have their own crude production are at times able to offset losses from refining operations with profits from producing operations and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. In addition, we compete with other industries, such as wind, solar and hydropower that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual customers. If we are unable to compete effectively with these competitors, both within and outside our industry, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.We are subject to loss of market share or pressure to reduce prices in order to compete effectively with a changing group of competitors in a fragmented retail industry.The markets in which we operate our retail fuel and convenience stores are highly competitive and characterized by ease of entry and constant change in the number and type of retailers offering the products and services found in our stores. We compete with other convenience store chains, gas stations, supermarkets, drug stores, discount stores, club stores, mass merchants, fast food operations and other retail outlets. In some of our markets, our competitors have been in existence longer and have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond better to changes in the economy and new opportunities within the industry.In recent years, several non-traditional retailers, such as supermarkets, club stores and mass merchants, have affected the convenience store industry by entering the retail fuel business and/or selling merchandise traditionally found in convenience stores. These non-traditional gasoline and/or convenience merchandise retailers have obtained a significant share of the motor fuels market, may obtain a significant share of the convenience merchandise market and their market share in each market is expected to grow. Because of their diversity, integration of operations, experienced management and greater resources, these companies may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions or levels of low or no profitability in the retail segment. In addition, these retailers may use promotional pricing or discounts, both at the pump and in the store, to encourage in-store merchandise sales. These activities by our competitors could pressure us to offer similar discounts, adversely affecting our profit margins. Additionally, the loss of market share by our retail fuel and convenience stores to these and other retailers relating to either gasoline or merchandise could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Independent owner-operators can generally operate stores with lower overhead costs than ours. Should significant numbers of independent owner-operators enter our market areas, retail prices in some of our categories may be negatively affected, as a result 25of which our profit margins may decline at affected stores.Our stores compete, in large part, based on their ability to offer convenience to customers. Consequently, changes in traffic patterns and the type, number and location of competing stores could result in the loss of customers and reduced sales and profitability at affected stores. Other major competitive factors include ease of access, pricing, timely deliveries, product and service selections, customer service, fuel brands, store appearance, cleanliness and safety.Decreases in commodity prices may lessen our borrowing capacities, increase collateral requirements for derivative instruments or cause a write-down of inventory.The nature of our business requires us to maintain substantial quantities of crude oil, refined petroleum product and blendstock inventories. Because crude oil and refined petroleum products are commodities, we have no control over the changing market value of these inventories. For example, reductions in the value of our inventories or accounts receivable as a result of lower commodity prices could result in a reduction in our borrowing base under the revolving credit facility for the Tyler refinery and a reduction in the amount of financial resources available to meet the Tyler refinery's capital requirements. Further, if at any time our availability under the revolving credit facility falls below certain thresholds, we may be required to take steps to reduce our utilization under the credit facility. In addition, decreases in commodity prices may require us to post substantial amounts of cash collateral to our hedging counterparties in order to maintain any hedging positions. Finally, because our inventory is valued at the lower of cost or market value, we would record a write-down of inventory and a non-cash charge to cost of sales if the market value of our inventory were to decline to an amount below our cost.A terrorist attack on our assets, or threats of war or actual war, may hinder or prevent us from conducting our business.Terrorist attacks in the United States, as well as events occurring in response or similar to or in connection with them, including political instability in various Middle Eastern countries, may harm our business. Energy-related assets (which could include refineries, pipelines and terminals such as ours) may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other possible targets in the United States. In addition, the State of Israel, where our majority stockholder, Delek Group, is based, has suffered armed conflicts and political instability in recent years. We may be more susceptible to terrorist attack as a result of our connection to an Israeli owner. Four of our directors resided in Israel as of December 31, 2011.A direct attack on our assets or the assets of others used by us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any terrorist attack or continued political instability in the Middle East could have an adverse impact on energy prices, including prices for our crude oil, other feedstocks and refined petroleum products, and an adverse impact on the margins from our refining and petroleum product marketing operations. Disruption or significant increases in energy prices could also result in government-imposed price controls.Increased consumption of alternative transportation fuels and increased use of alternative means of transportation could lead to a decrease in transportation fuel prices and/or a reduction in demand for petroleum-based transportation fuels.Regulatory initiatives have required an increase in the consumption of renewable transportation fuels such as ethanol and biodiesel and consumer acceptance of alternative means of transportation such as electric and hybrid vehicles is increasing. Increased use of renewable fuels and alternative means of transportation may result in a decrease in demand for petroleum-based transportation fuels. Increased use of renewable fuels may also result in an increase in transportation fuel supply relative to decreased demand and a corresponding decrease in margins. A significant decrease in transportation fuel margins or demand for petroleum-based transportation fuels could have an adverse impact on our financial results. For example, the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and EISA require increasing amounts of renewable fuel be incorporated into the gasoline pool through 2022. A rule finalized by the EPA in 2010, RFS-2, to implement the EISA requires displacement of increasing amounts of petroleum-based transportation fuels with biofuels, beginning with approximately 7.8% in 2011, increasing to 9.2% in 2012 and escalating to 18% or more in 2022, depending on demand for gasoline and diesel. In addition, the EPA may soon allow the widespread use of fuel containing 85% gasoline and 15% ethanol (“E15”). The RFS-2 mandate and widespread use of E15 could cause decreased crude runs and materially affect our profitability unless fuel demand rises at a comparable rate or other outlets are found for the displaced products.Increases in required fuel economy and regulation of CO2 emissions from motor vehicles may reduce demand for transportation fuels.In 2010, the EPA and the NHTSA finalized new standards, raising the required Corporate Average Fuel Economy of the nation's passenger fleet by 40% to approximately 35 mpg by 2016 and imposing the first-ever federal GHG emissions standards on cars and light trucks. In September 2011, the EPA and the Department of Transportation finalized first-time standards for fuel economy 26of medium and heavy duty trucks. In December 2011, the EPA and NHTSA proposed further mandated decreases in passenger vehicle GHG emissions and increases in fuel economy beginning with 2017 model year vehicles and increasing to the equivalent of 54.5 MPG by 2025. Such increases in fuel economy standards and potential electrification of the vehicle fleet, along with mandated increases in use of renewable fuels discussed above, could result in decreasing demand for petroleum fuels. Decreasing demand for petroleum fuels could materially affect profitability at our refineries and convenience stores.Risks Relating to Our BusinessWe are particularly vulnerable to disruptions to our refining operations, because our refining operations are concentrated in two facilities.Because all of our refining operations are concentrated in the Tyler and El Dorado refineries, significant disruptions at either facility could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Refining segment contribution margin comprised approximately 83.5%, 39.8% and 60.3% of our consolidated contribution margin for the 2011, 2010 and 2009 fiscal years, respectively. We expect to perform a maintenance turnaround of each processing unit at each of our refineries, beginning in 2013 and ending in 2014. Depending on which units are affected, all or a portion of each refinery's production may be disrupted during a turnaround.In addition, our refineries consist of many processing units, a number of which have been in operation for many years. Even if properly maintained, equipment may require significant capital expenditures to maintain desired efficiencies. One or more of the units may require additional unscheduled down time for unanticipated maintenance or repairs that are more frequent than our scheduled turnaround. For example, operations at the Tyler refinery were suspended for approximately one week of unscheduled down time in the third quarter of 2010 and an explosion and fire at the refinery in November 2008 suspended operations for more than five months.Refinery operations may also be disrupted by external factors such as an interruption of electricity, natural gas, water treatment or other utilities. Other potentially disruptive factors discussed elsewhere in these risk factors include natural disasters, severe weather conditions, workplace or environmental accidents, interruptions of supply, work stoppages, losses of permits or authorizations or acts of terrorism. Disruptions to our refining operations could reduce our revenues during the period of time that our units are not operating.General economic conditions may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.The domestic economy and economic slowdowns may have serious negative consequences for our business and operating results because our performance is subject to domestic economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer spending. Some of the factors affecting consumer spending include general economic conditions, unemployment, consumer debt, reductions in net worth based on recent declines in equity markets and residential real estate values, adverse developments in mortgage markets, taxation, energy prices, interest rates, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors. During a period of economic weakness or uncertainty, current or potential customers may travel less, reduce or defer purchases, go out of business or have insufficient funds to buy or pay for our products and services.Substantially all of our retail fuel and convenience stores are located in the southeastern United States, primarily in the states of Alabama, Georgia and Tennessee. As a result, our results of operations are particularly vulnerable to general economic conditions in that region. An economic downturn in the Southeast could cause our sales and the value of our assets to decline and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Moreover, a financial market crisis may have a material adverse impact on financial institutions and limit access to capital and credit. This could, among other things, make it more difficult for us to obtain (or increase our cost of obtaining) capital and financing for our operations. Our access to additional capital may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all.The costs, scope, timelines and benefits of our refining projects may deviate significantly from our original plans and estimates.We may experience unanticipated increases in the cost, scope and completion time for our improvement, maintenance and repair projects at our refineries. Refinery projects are generally initiated to increase the yields of higher-value products, increase our ability to process lower cost crude oils, increase production capacity, meet new regulatory requirements or maintain the safe operations of our existing assets. Equipment that we require to complete these projects may be unavailable to us at expected costs or within expected time periods. Additionally, employee or contractor labor expense may exceed our expectations. Due to these or other factors beyond our control, we may be unable to complete these projects within anticipated cost parameters and timelines. In addition, the benefits we realize from completed projects may take longer to achieve and/or be less than we anticipated. Our 27inability to complete and/or realize the benefits of refinery projects in a cost-efficient and timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.The dangers inherent in our operations could cause disruptions and expose us to potentially significant costs and liabilities.Our operations are subject to significant hazards and risks inherent in refining operations and in transporting and storing crude oil, intermediate and refined petroleum products. These hazards and risks include, but are not limited to, natural or weather-related disasters, fires, explosions, pipeline ruptures and spills, third party interference and mechanical failure of equipment at our or third-party facilities, and other events beyond our control. The occurrence of any of these events could result in production and distribution difficulties and disruptions, environmental pollution, personal injury or death and other damage to our properties and the properties of others. For example, an incident at our Tyler refinery in November 2008 resulted in two employee deaths and a suspension of production that continued until May 2009.Because of these inherent dangers, our refining operations are subject to various laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety and environmental protection. Continued efforts to comply with applicable laws and regulations related to health, safety and the environment, or a finding of non-compliance with current regulations, could result in additional capital expenditures or operating expenses, as well as fines and penalties. For example, OSHA commenced an investigation of the Tyler refinery following the November 2008 incident and issued citations in May 2009 assessing an aggregate penalty of approximately $0.2 million.In addition, our refineries are located in populated areas. Any release of hazardous material or catastrophic event could affect our employees and contractors at the refinery as well as persons outside the refinery grounds. In the event that personal injuries or deaths result from such events, we would likely incur substantial legal costs and liabilities. The extent of these costs and liabilities could exceed the limits of our available insurance. As a result, any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows.We also operate a fleet of fuel delivery and other trucks. These trucks regularly transport highly combustible motor fuels and other hazardous substances on public roads. A motor vehicle accident involving one of our trucks could result in significant personal injuries and/or property damage.From time to time, our cash and credit needs may exceed our internally generated cash flow and available credit, and our business could be materially and adversely affected if we are not able to obtain the necessary cash or credit from financing sources.We have significant short-term cash needs to satisfy working capital requirements such as crude oil purchases which fluctuate with the pricing and sourcing of crude oil. We rely in part on our access to credit to purchase crude oil for our refineries. If the price of crude oil increases significantly, we may not have sufficient available credit, and may not be able to sufficiently increase such availability, under our existing credit facilities or other arrangements to purchase enough crude oil to operate our refineries at full capacity. Our failure to operate our refineries at full capacity could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also have significant long-term needs for cash, including any expansion and upgrade plans, as well as for regulatory compliance.Depending on the conditions in credit markets, it may become more difficult to obtain cash or credit from third party sources. If we cannot generate cash flow or otherwise secure sufficient liquidity to support our short-term and long-term capital requirements, we may not be able to comply with regulatory deadlines or pursue our business strategies, in which case our operations may not perform as well as we currently expect.Our debt levels may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities.We have a significant amount of debt. As of December 31, 2011, we had total debt of $432.6 million, including current maturities of $74.2 million. In addition to our outstanding debt, as of December 31, 2011, our letters of credit issued under our various credit facilities were $259.2 million. Our borrowing availability under our various credit facilities as of December 31, 2011 was $225.8 million.Our significant level of debt could have important consequences for us. For example, it could:•increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;•require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt and lease obligations, 28thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;•place us at a disadvantage relative to our competitors that have less indebtedness or better access to capital by, for example, limiting our ability to enter into new markets, upgrade our refining assets, renovate our stores or pursue acquisitions or other business opportunities;•limit our ability to borrow additional funds in the future; and•increase the interest cost of our borrowed funds and letters of credit.In addition, a substantial portion of our debt has a variable rate of interest, which increases our exposure to interest rate fluctuations, to the extent we elect not to hedge such exposures.If we are unable to service our debt (principal and interest) and lease obligations, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our obligations, seek additional equity financing or sell assets, which we may not be able to do on satisfactory terms or at all. Our default on any of those obligations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify.Our debt agreements contain operating and financial restrictions that might constrain our business and financing activities.The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit facilities and any future financing agreements could adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities. For example, to varying degrees our credit facilities restrict our ability to:•declare dividends and redeem or repurchase capital stock;•prepay, redeem or repurchase debt;•make loans and investments, issue guaranties and pledge assets;•incur additional indebtedness or amend our debt and other material agreements;•make capital expenditures;•engage in mergers, acquisitions and asset sales; and•enter into some intercompany arrangements and make some intercompany payments, which in some instances could restrict our ability to use the assets, cash flow or earnings of one segment to support another segment.Other restrictive covenants require that we meet certain financial covenants, including leverage coverage, fixed charge coverage, and net worth tests as described in the credit facility agreements. In addition, the covenant requirements of our various credit agreements require us to make many subjective determinations pertaining to our compliance thereto and exercise good faith judgment in determining our compliance. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our debt instruments may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants and restrictions may be impaired. If we breach any of the restrictions or covenants in our debt agreements, a significant portion of our indebtedness may become immediately due and payable, and our lenders' commitments to make further loans to us may terminate. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these immediate payments. In addition, our obligations under our credit facilities are secured by substantially all of our assets. If we are unable to timely repay our indebtedness under our credit facilities, the lenders could seek to foreclose on the assets or we may be required to contribute additional capital to our subsidiaries. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Changes in our credit profile could affect our relationships with our suppliers, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to operate our refineries at full capacity.Changes in our credit profile could affect the way crude oil suppliers view our ability to make payments. As a result, suppliers could shorten the payment terms of their invoices with us or require us to provide significant collateral to them that we do not currently provide. Due to the large dollar amounts and volume of our crude oil and other feedstock purchases, as well as the historical volatility of crude oil pricing, any imposition by our suppliers of more burdensome payment terms may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to make payments to our suppliers. This in turn could cause us to be unable to operate our refineries at full capacity. A failure to operate our refineries at full capacity could adversely affect our profitability and cash 29flows.Termination of our Supply and Offtake Agreement could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity.We entered into a Master Supply and Offtake Agreement (“Supply and Offtake Agreement”) with J. Aron at the closing of the Lion Acquisition. Pursuant to the Supply and Offtake Agreement, J. Aron purchased a majority of the crude oil and refined products in Lion Oil’s inventory at market prices. The Supply and Offtake Agreement expires on April 29, 2014; however, upon any termination, including in connection with a force majeure or default, the parties are required to negotiate with third parties for the assignment to us of certain contracts, commitments and arrangements including procurement contracts, commitments for the sale of product, and pipeline, terminalling, storage and shipping arrangements. Additionally, upon termination, we will be required to repurchase or refinance the consigned crude oil and refined products from J. Aron at then market prices, which may have a material impact on our working capital needs. At December 31, 2011, we had approximately 3.0 million barrels of inventory consigned to J. Aron and we have recorded a liability associated with this consigned inventory of $298.8 million. Interruptions or limitations in the supply and delivery of crude oil or distribution of refined products may negatively affect our refining operations and inhibit the growth of our refining operations.We rely upon third party transportation systems for the delivery of crude oil to our refineries. We could experience an interruption or reduction of supply and delivery, or an increased cost of receiving crude oil, if the ability of these third party systems to transport crude oil is disrupted because of accidents, adverse weather conditions, governmental regulation, terrorism, maintenance or failure of pipelines or other delivery systems, other third-party action or other events beyond our control. The unavailability for our use for a prolonged period of time of any system of delivery of crude oil could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. For example, as a result of flooding along the Mississippi River in May 2011, a pipeline operator temporarily suspended crude oil shipments on a pipeline system that supplies significant amounts of crude oil to the El Dorado refinery. As a result, the El Dorado refinery operated at reduced rates until the pipeline system resumed normal operations approximately five weeks later.Moreover, interruptions in delivery or limitations in delivery capacity may not allow our refining operations to draw sufficient crude oil to support current refinery production or increases in refining output. In order to maintain or materially increase refining output, existing crude delivery systems may require upgrades or supplementation, which may require substantial additional capital expenditures.In addition, the El Dorado refinery distributes most of its light product production through a third-party pipeline system. An interruption or change in the operation of the third-party pipeline system may result in a material restriction to our distribution channels, and, because demand in the El Dorado market is limited, may cause us to reduce production and may have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our insurance policies do not cover all losses, costs or liabilities that we may experience, and insurance companies that currently insure companies in the energy industry may cease to do so or substantially increase premiums.We carry property, business interruption, pollution and casualty insurance, but we do not maintain insurance coverage against all potential losses, costs or liabilities. We could suffer losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. In addition, because our business interruption policy does not cover losses during the first 21 to 45 days of the interruption, a significant part or all of a business interruption loss could be uninsured. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.The energy industry is highly capital intensive, and the entire or partial loss of individual facilities or multiple facilities can result in significant costs to both industry companies, such as us, and their insurance carriers. In recent years, several large energy industry claims have resulted in significant increases in the level of premium costs and deductible periods for participants in the energy industry. For example, hurricanes in recent years have caused significant damage to several petroleum refineries along the Gulf Coast, in addition to numerous oil and gas production facilities and pipelines in that region. As a result of large energy industry claims, insurance companies that have historically participated in underwriting energy-related facilities may discontinue that practice, may reduce the insurance capacity they are willing to offer or demand significantly higher premiums or deductible periods to cover these facilities. If significant changes in the number or financial solvency of insurance underwriters for the energy industry occur, or if other adverse conditions over which we have no control prevail in the insurance market, we may be unable to obtain and maintain adequate insurance at reasonable cost.In addition, we cannot assure you that our insurers will renew our insurance coverage on acceptable terms, if at all, or that we will be able to arrange for adequate alternative coverage in the event of non-renewal. The unavailability of full insurance coverage 30to cover events in which we suffer significant losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We may not be able to successfully execute our strategy of growth through acquisitions.A significant part of our growth strategy is to acquire assets such as refineries, pipelines, terminals, and retail fuel and convenience stores that complement our existing sites or broaden our geographic presence. If attractive opportunities arise, we may also acquire assets in new lines of business that are complementary to our existing businesses. Through eleven major transactions spanning from our inception in 2001 through December 2011, we acquired the Tyler and El Dorado refineries, acquired approximately 500 retail fuel and convenience stores and developed our wholesale fuel business. We expect to continue to acquire retail fuel and convenience stores, refinery assets and product terminals and pipelines as a major element of our growth strategy, however:•we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or acquire additional assets on favorable terms;•we usually compete with others to acquire assets, which competition may increase, and, any level of competition could result in decreased availability or increased prices for acquisition candidates;•we may experience difficulty in anticipating the timing and availability of acquisition candidates;•since the convenience store industry is dominated by small, “independent” operators that own fewer than ten stores, we will likely need to complete numerous small acquisitions, rather than a few major acquisitions, to substantially increase our number of retail fuel and convenience stores;•the need to complete numerous acquisitions will require significant amounts of our management's time;•we may not be able to obtain the necessary financing, on favorable terms or at all, to finance any of our potential acquisitions; and•as a public company, we are subject to reporting obligations, internal controls and other accounting requirements with respect to any business we acquire, which may prevent or negatively affect the valuation of some acquisitions we might otherwise deem favorable or increase our acquisition costs. For example, prior to April 2011, the El Dorado refinery was controlled by a privately held entity that was not required to comply with public financial reporting obligations such as the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”). Now that we control the El Dorado refinery, we must ensure that it maintains disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting as required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.The occurrence of any of these factors could adversely affect our growth strategy.Acquisitions involve risks that could cause our actual growth or operating results to differ adversely compared with our expectations.Due to our emphasis on growth through acquisitions, we are particularly susceptible to transactional risks. For example:•during the acquisition process, we may fail or be unable to discover some of the liabilities of companies or businesses that we acquire;•we may assume contracts or other obligations in connection with particular acquisitions on terms that are less favorable or desirable than the terms that we would expect to obtain if we negotiated the contracts or other obligations directly;•we may fail to successfully integrate or manage acquired assets;•acquired assets may not perform as we expect or we may not be able to obtain the cost savings and financial improvements we anticipate;•acquisitions may require us to incur additional debt or issue additional equity;•acquired assets may suffer a diminishment in fair value as a result of which we may need to record a write-down or impairment, as in the case of the $60.0 million impairment of our minority investment in Lion Oil in the fourth quarter of 2010;•we may fail to grow our existing systems, financial controls, information systems, management resources and human resources in a manner that effectively supports our growth;•to the extent that we acquire assets in complementary new lines of business, we may become subject to additional regulatory requirements and additional risks that are characteristic or typical of these new lines of business; and31•to the extent that we acquire equity interests in entities that control assets (rather than acquiring the assets directly), we may assume liabilities that predate our ownership and control of the assets. For example, in April 2011, we acquired a majority of the outstanding shares of common stock of Lion Oil, the Arkansas corporation that owns and operates the El Dorado refinery. Because we acquired the stock of Lion Oil (rather than acquiring the refinery assets directly), we may be subject to Lion Oil's historic liabilities.The occurrence of any of these factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.We may incur significant costs and liabilities with respect to investigation and remediation of environmental conditions at our refineries.Prior to our purchase of our refineries, the previous owners had been engaged for many years in the investigation and remediation of liquid hydrocarbons which contaminated soil and groundwater at the purchased facilities. Upon purchase of the facilities, we became responsible and liable for certain costs associated with the continued investigation and remediation of known and unknown impacted areas at the refineries. In the future, it may be necessary to conduct further assessments and remediation efforts at our refinery and pipeline locations. In addition, we have identified and self-reported certain other environmental matters subsequent to our purchase of the refineries.Based upon environmental evaluations performed internally and by third parties subsequent to the purchase of our refineries, we recorded environmental liabilities of approximately $3.7 million and $8.8 million as of December 31, 2011 for the estimated costs of environmental remediation for the Tyler and El Dorado refineries, respectively. We expect remediation of soil, sediment and groundwater at the refineries to continue for the foreseeable future. The need to make future expenditures for these purposes that exceed the amounts we estimated and accrued for could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.In the future, we may incur substantial expenditures for investigation or remediation of contamination that has not been discovered at our current or former locations or locations that we may acquire. In addition, new legal requirements, new interpretations of existing legal requirements, increased legislative activity and governmental enforcement and other developments could require us to make additional unforeseen expenditures. We anticipate that compliance with environmental, health and safety regulations will require us to spend approximately $8.9 million in capital costs in 2012 and approximately $80.7 million during the next five years.We could incur substantial costs or disruptions in our business if we cannot obtain or maintain necessary permits and authorizations or otherwise comply with health, safety, environmental and other laws and regulations.Our operations require numerous permits and authorizations under various laws and regulations. These authorizations and permits are subject to revocation, renewal or modification and can require operational changes to limit impacts or potential impacts on the environment and/or health and safety. A violation of authorization or permit conditions or other legal or regulatory requirements could result in substantial fines, criminal sanctions, permit revocations, injunctions, and/or facility shutdowns. In addition, major modifications of our operations could require modifications to our existing permits or upgrades to our existing pollution control equipment. Any or all of these matters could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows.Our Tyler refinery has no access to an outbound pipeline for distribution of our refined petroleum products outside the northeast Texas market.For the year ended December 31, 2011, nearly all of the refinery sales volume in Tyler was completed through a rack system located at the Tyler refinery. Unlike most other refineries, the Tyler refinery currently has no access to an outbound pipeline for distribution of refined products outside the northeast Texas market. The Tyler refinery's lack of access to an outbound pipeline may limit our ability to attract new customers for our refined petroleum products or increase sales of the Tyler refinery products. If demand for the Tyler refinery's products diminishes within the northeast Texas market, our production may be reduced and our financial results would be adversely affected.An interruption or termination of supply and delivery of refined products to our wholesale business could result in a decline in our sales and earnings.Our marketing segment sells refined products produced by refineries owned mostly by third parties. In 2011, our marketing segment received nearly all of its supply of refined products from two suppliers. We could experience an interruption or termination of supply or delivery of refined products if our suppliers partially or completely ceased operations, temporarily or permanently. 32The ability of these refineries and our suppliers to supply refined products to us could be disrupted by anticipated events such as scheduled upgrades or maintenance, as well as events beyond their control, such as unscheduled maintenance, fires, floods, storms, explosions, power outages, accidents, acts of terrorism or other catastrophic events, labor difficulties and work stoppages, governmental or private party litigation, or legislation or regulation that adversely impacts refinery operations. In addition, any reduction in capacity of other pipelines that connect with our suppliers' pipelines or our pipelines due to testing, line repair, reduced operating pressures, or other causes could result in reduced volumes of refined product supplied to our marketing business. A reduction in the volume of refined products supplied to our marketing segment could adversely affect our sales and earnings.An increase in competition and/or reduction in demand in the market in which we sell our refined products could lower prices and adversely affect our sales and profitability.Our Tyler refinery is currently the only supplier of a full range of refined petroleum products within a radius of approximately 100 miles of its location and there are no competitive fuel loading terminals within approximately 90 miles of our San Angelo terminal. If competitors commence operations within these niche markets, we could lose our niche market advantage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our El Dorado refinery's profitability may be impacted by increased competition from refineries that operate in different regions that have access to Canadian and domestic crudes, which, from time to time may be discounted from crudes available to our El Dorado refinery.In addition, the maintenance or replacement of our existing customers depends on a number of factors outside of our control, including increased competition from other suppliers and demand for refined products in the markets we serve. Loss of, or reduction in, amounts purchased by our major customers could have an adverse effect on us to the extent that we are not able to correspondingly increase sales to other purchasers.We may be unable to negotiate market price risk protection in contracts with unaffiliated suppliers of refined products.During the year ended December 31, 2011, we obtained most of our supply of refined products for our marketing segment under contracts that contain provisions that mitigate the market price risk inherent in the purchase and sale of refined products. We cannot assure you that in the future we will be able to negotiate similar market price protections in other contracts that we enter into for the supply of refined products or ethanol. To the extent that we purchase inventory at prices that do not compare favorably to the prices at which we are able to sell refined products, our sales and margins may be adversely affected.Compliance with and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our performance.We are subject to extensive tax liabilities, including federal and state and transactional taxes such as excise, sales/use, payroll, franchise, withholding, and ad valorem taxes. New tax laws and regulations and changes in existing tax laws and regulations are continuously being enacted or proposed that could result in increased expenditures for tax liabilities in the future. Certain of these liabilities are subject to periodic audits by the respective taxing authority which could increase our tax liabilities. Subsequent changes to our tax liabilities as a result of these audits may also subject us to interest and penalties.We may seek to diversify our retail fuel and convenience store operations by entering new geographic areas, which may present operational and competitive challenges.Since our inception, we have grown our retail fuel and convenience store operations primarily by acquiring stores in the southeastern United States. In the future, we may seek to grow by selectively operating stores in geographic areas other than those in which we currently operate, or in which we currently have a relatively small number of stores. This growth strategy would present numerous operational and competitive challenges to our senior management and employees and would place significant pressure on our operating systems. In addition, we cannot assure you that consumers located in the regions in which we may expand our operations would be as receptive to our stores as consumers in our existing markets. The success of our development plans will depend in part upon our ability to:•select, and compete successfully in, new markets;•obtain suitable sites at acceptable costs;•identify and contract with financially stable developers;•realize an acceptable return on the capital invested in new facilities;•hire, train, and retain qualified personnel;33•integrate new retail fuel and convenience stores into our existing distribution, inventory control, and information systems;•expand relationships with our suppliers or develop relationships with new suppliers; and•secure adequate financing, to the extent required.We cannot assure you that we will achieve our development goals, manage our growth effectively, or operate our existing and new retail fuel and convenience stores profitability. The failure to achieve any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Adverse weather conditions or other unforeseen developments could damage our facilities, reduce customer traffic and impair our ability to produce and deliver refined petroleum products or receive supplies for our retail fuel and convenience stores.The regions in which we operate are susceptible to severe storms including hurricanes, thunderstorms, tornadoes, extended periods of rain, ice storms and snow, all of which we have experienced in the past few years. Inclement weather conditions could damage our facilities, interrupt production, adversely impact consumer behavior, travel and retail fuel and convenience store traffic patterns or interrupt or impede our ability to operate our locations. If such conditions prevail near our refineries, they could interrupt or undermine our ability to produce and transport products from our refineries and receive and distribute products at our terminals. Regional occurrences, such as energy shortages or increases in energy prices, fires and other natural disasters, could also hurt our business. The occurrence of any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our operating results are seasonal and generally lower in the first and fourth quarters of the year for our refining and marketing segments and in the first quarter of the year for our retail segment. We depend on favorable weather conditions in the spring and summer months.Demand for gasoline, convenience merchandise and asphalt products is generally higher during the summer months than during the winter months due to seasonal increases in motor vehicle traffic and road and home construction. As a result, the operating results of our refining segment and marketing segment are generally lower for the first and fourth quarters of each year. Seasonal fluctuations in traffic also affect sales of motor fuels and merchandise in our retail fuel and convenience stores. As a result, the operating results of our retail segment are generally lower for the first quarter of the year.Weather conditions in our operating area also have a significant effect on our operating results. Customers are more likely to purchase higher profit margin items at our retail fuel and convenience stores, such as fast foods, fountain drinks and other beverages and more gasoline during the spring and summer months, thereby typically generating higher revenues and gross margins for us in these periods. Unfavorable weather conditions during these months and a resulting lack of the expected seasonal upswings in traffic and sales could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We depend on one wholesaler for a significant portion of our convenience store merchandise; we may not be able to maintain favorable arrangements with vendors.We purchase a majority of our general merchandise, including most tobacco products and grocery items, from a single wholesale grocer, Core-Mark, including approximately 59.1% of such merchandise during the year ended December 31, 2011. A change of merchandise suppliers, a disruption in supply or a significant change in our relationship or pricing with our principal merchandise supplier could lead to an increase in our cost of goods or a reduction in the reliability of timely deliveries and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.In addition, we believe that our arrangements with vendors with respect to allowances, payment terms and operational support commitments, have enabled us to decrease the operating expenses of convenience stores that we acquire. If we are unable to maintain favorable arrangements with these vendors, we may be unable to continue to effect operating expense reductions at convenience stores we have acquired or will acquire.Wholesale cost increases, vendor pricing programs and tax increases applicable to tobacco products, as well as campaigns to discourage their use, could adversely impact our results of operations in our retail segment.Sales of tobacco products accounted for approximately 7.9%, 9.6% and 10.9% of total revenues in our retail segment during the 2011, 2010 and 2009 fiscal years, respectively. Our tobacco gross profit accounted for approximately 15.9%, 17.2% and 17.2% of total gross profit in our retail segment during the same periods. Increases in the retail price of tobacco products as a result of increased taxes or wholesale costs could materially impact our cigarette sales volume and/or revenues, merchandise gross profit and overall customer traffic. In addition, national and local campaigns to discourage the use of tobacco products may have an 34adverse effect on demand for these products. A reduction in cigarette sales volume and/or revenues, merchandise gross profit from tobacco products or overall customer demand for tobacco products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operationsMajor cigarette manufacturers currently offer substantial rebates to us; however, there can be no assurance that such rebate programs will continue. We include these rebates as a component of our gross margin from sales of cigarettes. In the event these rebates are decreased or eliminated, our wholesale cigarette costs will increase. For example, certain major cigarette manufacturers have offered rebate programs that provide rebates only if we follow the manufacturer's retail pricing guidelines. If we do not receive the rebates because we do not participate in the program or if the rebates we receive by participating in the program do not offset or surpass the revenue lost as a result of complying with the manufacturer's pricing guidelines, our cigarette gross margin will be adversely impacted. In general, we attempt to pass wholesale price increases on to our customers. However, due to competitive pressures in our markets, we may not be able to do so. In addition, reduced retail display allowances on cigarettes offered by cigarette manufacturers negatively impact gross margins. These factors could materially impact our retail price of cigarettes, cigarette sales volume and/or revenues, merchandise gross profit and overall customer traffic, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.A substantial portion of the workforce at our refineries is unionized, and we may face labor disruptions that would interfere with our operations.As of December 31, 2011, we employed 272 and 580 people in our Tyler and El Dorado operations, respectively. From among these employees, 162 operations and maintenance hourly employees and 40 truck drivers at the Tyler refinery were represented by the United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union and its Local 202 at year end. The Tyler operations and maintenance hourly employees are currently covered by a collective bargaining agreement that expires January 31, 2015. The Tyler truck drivers are currently covered by a collective bargaining agreement that expires March 1, 2015. As of December 31, 2011, 168 operations and maintenance hourly employees at the El Dorado refinery were represented by the International Union of Operating Engineers and its Local 381. These employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement which expires on August 1, 2014. Although these collective bargaining agreements contain provisions to discourage strikes or work stoppages, we cannot assure you that strikes or work stoppages will not occur. A strike or work stoppage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We are dependent on fuel sales at our retail fuel and convenience stores which makes us susceptible to increases in the cost of gasoline and interruptions in fuel supply.Net fuel sales at stores representing the continuing operations of our retail segment represented approximately 79.9%, 75.9% and 72.9% of total net sales of our retail segment for 2011, 2010 and 2009 respectively. Our dependence on fuel sales makes us susceptible to increases in the cost of gasoline and diesel fuel and fuel profit margins have a significant impact on our earnings. The volume of fuel sold by us and our fuel profit margins are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including the supply and demand for fuel, volatility in the wholesale fuel market and the pricing policies of competitors in local markets. Although we can rapidly adjust our pump prices to reflect higher fuel costs, a material increase in the price of fuel could adversely affect demand. A material, sudden increase in the cost of fuel that causes our fuel sales to decline could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our dependence on fuel sales also makes us susceptible to interruptions in fuel supply. At December 31, 2011, fuel from the Gulf Coast transported to us through the Colonial and Plantation pipelines was the primary source of fuel supply for approximately 86.9% of our retail fuel and convenience stores. To mitigate the risks of cost volatility, we typically have no more than a five day supply of fuel at each of our stores and our fuel contracts do not guarantee an uninterrupted, unlimited supply in the event of a shortage. Gasoline sales generate customer traffic to our retail fuel and convenience stores and any decrease in gasoline sales, whether due to shortage or otherwise, could adversely affect our merchandise sales. A serious interruption in the supply of gasoline to our retail fuel and convenience stores could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.If there is negative publicity concerning our brand names or the brand names of our suppliers, fuel and merchandise sales at certain of our stores may suffer.We are an independent retailer of fuel that markets some of our products under the major oil company brands Shell, Exxon, BP, Marathon and Conoco. Fuel sold under these major brands represented approximately 32.6% of total fuel sales volume for our retail segment during the year ended December 31, 2011. Negative publicity concerning any of these major oil companies could adversely affect fuel and merchandise sales volumes in our retail segment. For example, the Deepwater Horizon accident in the Gulf of Mexico in April 2010 resulted in consumer boycotts of independent retailers of BP branded fuels. If negative publicity 35pertaining to the major brands adversely affects our sales volumes, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.In addition, we offer food products in our stores that are marketed under our brand names and certain nationally recognized brands such as Subway and Quizno's. Negative publicity, regardless of whether the concerns are valid, concerning food or beverage quality, food or beverage safety or other health concerns, facilities, employee relations or other matters related to our operations may materially adversely affect demand for food and beverages offered in our stores and could result in a decrease in customer traffic to our stores. Additionally, we may be the subject of complaints or litigation arising from food or beverage-related illness or injury in general which could have a negative impact on our business. Health concerns, poor food or beverage quality or operating issues stemming from one store or a limited number of stores can materially adversely affect the operating results of some or all of our stores and harm our proprietary brands.We may incur losses as a result of our forward contract activities and derivative transactions.We selectively use derivative financial instruments, such as fuel-related derivative transactions and interest rate swaps and interest rate cap agreements, to partially mitigate the risk of various financial exposures inherent in our business. We expect to continue to enter into these types of transactions. In connection with such derivative transactions, we may be required to make payments to maintain margin accounts and to settle the contracts at their value upon termination. The maintenance of required margin accounts and the settlement of derivative contracts at termination could cause us to suffer losses or limited gains. In particular, derivative transactions could expose us to the risk of financial loss upon unexpected or unusual variations in the sales price of crude oil and that of wholesale gasoline. We cannot assure you that the strategies underlying these transactions will be successful. If any of the instruments we utilize to manage our exposure to various types of risk is not effective, we may incur losses.We are exposed to certain counter party risks which may adversely impact our results of operations.We evaluate the creditworthiness of each of our various counterparties but we may not always be able to fully anticipate or detect deterioration in their creditworthiness and overall financial condition. The deterioration of creditworthiness or overall financial condition of a material counterparty (or counterparties) could expose us to an increased risk of nonpayment or other default under our contracts with them. If a material counterparty (or counterparties) default on their obligations to us, this could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. For example, under the terms of the Supply and Offtake Agreement with J. Aron, we granted J. Aron the exclusive right to store and withdraw crude and certain products in the tanks associated with the El Dorado refinery. The Supply and Offtake Agreement also provides that the ownership of substantially all crude oil and certain other refined products in the tanks associated with the refinery will be retained by J. Aron, and that J. Aron will purchase substantially all of the specified refined products processed at the El Dorado refinery. If J. Aron does not timely perform its obligations under the Supply and Offtake Agreement, our results of operations may be adversely impacted.We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our business.We rely on information technology systems across our operations, including management of our supply chain, point of sale processing at our retail sites, and various other processes and transactions. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential customer information, such as payment card and personal credit information. In addition, the systems currently used for certain transmission and approval of payment card transactions, and the technology utilized in payment cards themselves, may put certain payment card data at risk, and these systems are determined and controlled by the payment card industry, and not by us. We have taken the necessary steps to assure the PCI compliance and Data Security Standards are being employed at all our locations. In recent years, several retailers have experienced data breaches resulting in the exposure of sensitive customer data, including payment card information. Any compromise or breach of our information and payment technology systems could cause interruptions in our operations, damage our reputation, reduce our customers' willingness to visit our sites and conduct business with us or expose us to litigation from customer or sanctions from the PCI. Also, we inherited information technology systems and controls in El Dorado that monitor the movement of petroleum products through newly acquired pipeline systems. An undetected failure of these systems could result in environmental damage, operational disruptions, regulatory enforcement or private litigation. Further, the failure of any of our systems to operate effectively, or problems we may experience with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, could significantly harm our business and operations and cause us to incur significant costs to remediate such problems.36If we lose any of our key personnel, our ability to manage our business and continue our growth could be negatively impacted.Our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and key technical personnel. We do not currently maintain key person life insurance policies for any of our senior management team. The loss or unavailability to us of any member of our senior management team or a key technical employee could significantly harm us. We face competition for these professionals from our competitors, our customers and other companies operating in our industry. To the extent that the services of members of our senior management team and key technical personnel would be unavailable to us for any reason, we would be required to hire other personnel to manage and operate our company and to develop our products and technology. We cannot assure you that we would be able to locate or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms or at all.It may be difficult to serve process on or enforce a United States judgment against those of our directors who reside in Israel.On the date of this report, four of our eight directors reside in the State of Israel. As a result, it may be difficult to serve legal process within the United States upon any of these persons. It may also be difficult to enforce, both in and outside the United States, judgments obtained in United States courts against these persons in any action, including actions based upon the civil liability provisions of United States federal or state securities laws, because a substantial portion of the assets of these directors is located outside of the United States. Furthermore, there is substantial doubt that the courts of the State of Israel would enter judgments in original actions brought in those courts predicated on U.S. federal or state securities laws.If we are, or become, a U.S. real property holding corporation, special tax rules may apply to a sale, exchange or other disposition of common stock and non-U.S. holders may be less inclined to invest in our stock as they may be subject to U.S. federal income tax in certain situations.A non-U.S. holder of our common stock may be subject to U.S. federal income tax with respect to gain recognized on the sale, exchange or other disposition of our common stock if we are, or were, a “U.S. real property holding corporation” or “USRPHC,” at any time during the shorter of the five-year period ending on the date of the sale or other disposition and the period such non-U.S. holder held our common stock (the shorter period referred to as the “lookback period”). In general, we would be a USRPHC if the fair market value of our “U.S. real property interests,” as such term is defined for U.S. federal income tax purposes, equals or exceeds 50% of the sum of the fair market value of our worldwide real property interests and our other assets used or held for use in a trade or business. The test for determining USRPHC status is applied on certain specific determination dates and is dependent upon a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control (including, for example, fluctuations in the value of our assets). If we are or become a USRPHC, so long as our common stock is regularly traded on an established securities market such as the New York Stock Exchange, only a non-U.S. holder who, actually or constructively, holds or held during the lookback period more than 5% of our common stock will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the disposition of our common stock.Risks Related to Our Common StockThe price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment.The market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:•our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry;•changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;•general economic and stock market conditions;•the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock or changes in financial estimates by analysts;•future sales of our common stock;•announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions;•sales of common stock by us, our senior officers or our affiliates; and•the other factors described in these “Risk Factors.”In recent years, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. The changes often occur without any apparent regard to the operating performance of these companies. The price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our stock price. In addition, the recent distress in the credit and financial markets has resulted in extreme volatility in trading prices of 37securities and diminished liquidity, and we cannot assure you that our liquidity will not be affected by changes in the financial markets and the global economy.In the past, some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have been subject to securities class action suits filed against them. The filing of a lawsuit against us, regardless of the outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as it could result in substantial legal costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources.Our stockholders may suffer substantial dilution.We may sell securities in the public or private equity markets if and when conditions are favorable, even if we do not have an immediate need for capital. In addition, if we have an immediate need for capital, we may sell securities in the public or private equity markets even when conditions are not otherwise favorable. Our stockholders will suffer dilution if we issue currently unissued shares of our stock in the future in furtherance of our growth strategy. Our stockholders will also suffer dilution if stock, restricted stock units, restricted stock, stock options, stock appreciation rights, warrants or other equity awards, whether currently outstanding or subsequently granted, are exercised.We are exposed to risks relating to evaluations of internal controls required by Section 404.To comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404, we are required to evaluate our internal controls systems to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to audit, our internal controls over financial reporting. During this process, we may identify control deficiencies of varying degrees of severity under applicable SEC and Public Company Accounting Oversight Board rules and regulations that remain unremediated. As a public company, we are required to report, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute a “material weakness” or changes in internal controls that, or are reasonably likely to, materially affect internal controls over financial reporting. A “material weakness” is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.If we fail to comply with the requirements of Section 404, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities such as the SEC or the NYSE. Additionally, failure to comply with Section 404 or the report by us of a material weakness may cause investors to lose confidence in our financial statements and our stock price may be adversely affected. If we fail to remedy any material weakness, our financial statements may be inaccurate, we may face restricted access to the capital markets, and our stock price may decline.We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NYSE rules and, as a result, we qualify for, and intend to rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements.Under applicable NYSE rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, a group or another company is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements of the NYSE, including:•the requirement that a majority of its board of directors consist of independent directors;•the requirement to have a nominating/corporate governance committee consisting entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities; and•the requirement to have a compensation committee consisting entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities.We utilize all of these exemptions except that our compensation committee has a written charter addressing its purpose and responsibilities and our board of directors consists of a majority of independent directors. Accordingly, our stockholders will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE.Our controlling stockholder may have conflicts of interest with other stockholders in the future.At December 31, 2011, Delek Group beneficially owned approximately 68.5% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Delek Group and its controlling stockholder, Mr. Sharon, will continue to be able to control the election of our directors, influence our corporate and management policies (including the declaration of dividends) and determine, without the consent of our other stockholders, the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including 38potential mergers or acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. So long as Delek Group continues to own a significant amount of the outstanding shares of our common stock, Delek Group will continue to be able to influence or effectively control our decisions, including whether to pursue or consummate potential mergers or acquisitions, asset sales, and other significant corporate transactions. We cannot provide any assurances that the interests of Delek Group will coincide with the interests of other holders of our common stock.Future sales of shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock.The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of the introduction of a large number of shares of our common stock into the market or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. At December 31, 2011, 39,736,432 shares of our common stock were controlled by Delek Group. In accordance with Delek Group's registration rights agreement with us, these 39,736,432 shares have been registered for resale by the selling stockholders, in one or more transactions, at their discretion in the future. In addition, in connection with our acquisition of the El Dorado refinery, we issued 3,292,844 shares of our Common Stock to the seller as part of the purchase price for the acquisition.We depend upon our subsidiaries for cash to meet our obligations and pay any dividends.We are a holding company. Our subsidiaries conduct substantially all of our operations and own substantially all of our assets. Consequently, our cash flow and our ability to meet our obligations or pay dividends to our stockholders depend upon the cash flow of our subsidiaries and the payment of funds by our subsidiaries to us in the form of dividends, tax sharing payments or otherwise. Our subsidiaries' ability to make any payments will depend on many factors, including their earnings, cash flows, the terms of their indebtedness, tax considerations and legal restrictions.We may be unable to pay future dividends in the anticipated amounts and frequency set forth herein.We will only be able to pay dividends from our available cash on hand and funds received from our subsidiaries. Our ability to receive dividends and other cash payments from our subsidiaries is restricted under the terms of their respective credit facilities. For example, under the terms of their credit facilities, our subsidiaries are subject to certain customary covenants that limit their ability to, subject to certain exceptions as defined in their respective credit agreements, remit cash to, distribute assets to, or make investments in, us as the parent company. Specifically, these covenants limit the payment, in the form of cash or other assets, of dividends or other cash payments, to us. The declaration of future dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including our results of operations, financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, restrictions in our debt agreements and legal requirements. Although we currently intend to pay quarterly cash dividends on our common stock at an annual rate of $0.15 per share, we cannot provide any assurances that any dividends will be paid in the anticipated amounts and frequency set forth herein, if at all.Provisions of Delaware law and our organizational documents may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our stockholders may consider in their best interests, which could negatively affect our stock price.In addition to the fact that Delek Group owns the majority of our common stock, provisions of Delaware law and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company or deterring tender offers for our common stock that other stockholders may consider in their best interests.Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more different series with terms to be fixed by our Board of Directors. Stockholder approval is not necessary to issue preferred stock in this manner. Issuance of these shares of preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult and more expensive for a person or group to acquire control of us and could effectively be used as an anti-takeover device. On the date of this report, no shares of our preferred stock are outstanding.Our bylaws provide for an advance notice procedure for stockholders to nominate director candidates for election or to bring business before an annual meeting of stockholders and require that special meetings of stockholders be called only by our chairman of the board, president or secretary after written request of a majority of our Board of Directors. The anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and provisions in our organizational documents may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future.39ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone. 