Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Company An adverse rating action concerning RAM Re’s ratings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the financial guaranty reinsurance industry and would significantly decrease the value of the reinsurance we provide. RAM Re currently has a financial strength rating of “AAA” by Standard & Poor’s, with a negative outlook, and a financial strength rating of “Aa3” by Moody’s, with a stable outlook. A downgrade of either of these ratings or a decrease in the credit given for our reinsurance would negatively affect the value of our reinsurance. For example, under Standard & Poor’s current guidelines for assigning credit to reinsurance, if RAM Re’s rating were downgraded from “AAA” to “AA,” there would be a 30% decrease in the benefits financial guarantors receive from ceding business to us based on Standard & Poor’s model. In addition to potential negative effects on future business, a downgrade of the ratings assigned to RAM Re by either rating agency would harm our competitive position in the reinsurance industry. If RAM Re experienced a rating downgrade, the primary insurers would have the ability under our contracts with them to either reprice existing business through increases in the ceding commission, which is the commission paid to a primary insurer by a reinsurer based on the amount of the premiums ceded, payable by us or terminate and recapture their existing business with us. A downgrade of RAM Re’s ratings, the placing of RAM Re’s ratings on negative credit watch or under review for a ratings downgrade, or a decrease in the credit given for our reinsurance would also negatively affect our ability to negotiate favorable terms with primary insurers in the future. Any downgrade in RAM Re’s financial strength rating, or the placement of RAM Re’s financial strength rating on negative credit watch, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a decrease in the credit given for our reinsurance by either rating agency would negatively affect pricing under our existing and future contracts, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Financial strength ratings do not refer to RAM Re’s ability to meet non-reinsurance obligations and are not a “market rating” or a recommendation to buy, hold or sell any security. We cannot assure you that any of RAM Re’s current financial strength ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be downgraded by a rating agency. We depend on a small number of primary insurers to provide us with a substantial portion of our business. A significant reduction in the amount of reinsurance ceded by one or more of the primary insurers who are our principal customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We derive substantially all of our financial guaranty revenues from premiums ceded by the four largest primary financial guaranty insurers. In 2004, 2005 and 2006, these four major primary insurers accounted for approximately 97%, 96% and 89% of our 22 gross written premiums, respectively. A number of factors could cause a reduction in our business with any of our primary insurers, including higher retention levels by a primary insurer, a reduction in the amount of business written by the primary insurers, an adverse rating action with respect to the financial strength rating of RAM Re, increased participation by one or more of the primary insurers in financial guaranty reinsurance through strategic alliances or the greater use of other forms of credit enhancements or transaction structures as an alternative to traditional financial guaranty reinsurance. If any of the four main primaries were to cease or substantially decrease ceding business to us, our dependence on the remaining primaries would increase and we might not be able to replace the lost business. We also depend on the major primary insurers in that our ability to receive profitable pricing for our reinsurance depends largely on prices charged by the primary insurers for their insurance coverage and the amount of ceding commissions paid by us to these primary insurers. Our concentration on a single line of reinsurance business could make us more susceptible to unfavorable market or regulatory conditions affecting that line of business. We are currently dedicated to providing financial guaranty reinsurance and do not offer any other products. Given our reliance on reinsurance, unfavorable market or regulatory conditions affecting the financial guaranty reinsurance industry would likely have a disproportionate impact on us in comparison with our competitors who offer more diversified product lines within the financial guaranty market. For example, a decrease in the amount of credit given for financial guaranty reinsurance by state regulators or rating agencies would negatively impact our results of operations. If we are unable to renew our existing treaties with our customers, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. Each of our quota share reinsurance treaties with our primary insurer customers is for a term of one year and provides that it may be terminated, on a run-off basis, by either party upon notice to the other on or after the term ends. Each quota share reinsurance treaty may also be terminated upon the happening of certain events, such as a downgrade of our financial strength rating, prior to the expiration of its term. In the ordinary course of business and consistent with the practice within the financial guaranty reinsurance industry, our customers typically will send us a notice of termination of their quota share reinsurance treaty prior to the expiration of its annual term. In most cases, we then negotiate renewal terms for the treaty with the customer. While we generally have been able to renew our existing quota share reinsurance treaties annually, we cannot assure you that any of our customers will renew their quota share reinsurance treaties with us or that the terms on which any treaty is renewed will be as favorable to us. Any such failure to maintain our relationship with existing treaty customers or failure to negotiate favorable treaty terms could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. The size of our capital base may not allow us to compete effectively in our industry and may adversely affect our ability to grow our business and execute our business strategy. We currently have a smaller capital base than a number of the financial guaranty reinsurers with which we compete. This effectively may reduce our ability to compete with these reinsurers. Larger competitors have several advantages over us because of their larger capital base, including being able to take larger shares of facultative transactions and treaty business, being able to offer larger single risk limits, having greater economies of scale, benefiting from implicit or explicit parental support and having more diverse product lines. To the extent our limited capital base prevents us from competing effectively for new business in comparison to larger companies in the market, our ability to grow our business and execute our business strategy would be adversely affected. Competition in our industry may adversely affect our revenues. There are a relatively limited number of companies offering financial guaranty reinsurance. As a result, the industry is particularly vulnerable to swings in capacity based on the new entrants or other additional capacity being added to the market. Additional capacity would likely have an adverse effect on our business by furthering price competition or reducing the aggregate demand for our reinsurance capacity. In the last three years, there have been three new entrants into the financial guaranty reinsurance market, Channel Reinsurance Ltd., or Channel Re, BluePoint Re Limited, or BluePoint Re and PMI Guaranty Co., or PMI Guaranty, a subsidiary of our shareholder The PMI Group, Inc., or PMI, which expects to conduct primarily mortgage related business but which will also 23 offer select financial guaranty reinsurance products. To the extent that any of the existing companies or potential new market entrants engage in practices that result in decreased prices or demand for reinsurance, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. If we cannot obtain necessary capital on favorable terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including our ability to write new business successfully and our ability to establish reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses. Although we may, to the extent that capacity is available, establish retrocessional facilities and other soft capital facilities (which could include lines of credit, credit swap facilities and similar capital support mechanisms) with providers with ratings comparable to our own, no assurance can be given that such facilities can be established, or if established, that one or more of the rating agencies will not downgrade or withdraw the financial strength ratings of such providers in the future. In addition, no assurance can be given that a replacement provider on any facility we establish would be available. To the extent that our existing capital is insufficient to fund future operating requirements and/or cover losses, we may need to raise additional funds through financings or curtail our growth and reduce our risk exposure portfolio. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. In the case of equity financings, dilution to our shareholders could result, and the securities issued may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of the shares offered under this prospectus. If our need for capital arises because of significant losses, the occurrence of these losses may make it more difficult for us to raise the necessary capital. To the extent that additional capital is needed, our failure to obtain the necessary capital on favorable terms or at all would adversely affect our business, ratings, operating results and financial condition. We could be adversely affected by the loss of one or more principal employees or by an inability to retain and attract staff. Our business model is predicated upon the assumption that a small group of highly experienced individuals will be able to successfully implement our business plan. We currently have 13 employees and our success depends upon our ability to retain and attract qualified employees and upon the ability of our senior management and other key employees to implement our business strategy. We believe there are only a limited number of available qualified executives in the financial guaranty reinsurance industry. Further, we require our employees to work in Bermuda, which limits our ability to attract qualified personnel. We have entered into employment agreements with members of our senior management team but the loss of key personnel could prevent us from fully implementing our business strategy and could negatively affect our ability to capitalize on market opportunities, grow our business or operate efficiently and profitably. Our ability to conduct our business may be adversely affected by Bermuda employment restrictions. Our location in Bermuda may serve as an impediment to attracting and retaining experienced personnel. Under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians (other than spouses of Bermudians, holders of a permanent resident’s certificate or holders of a working resident’s certificate) may not engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without an appropriate governmental work permit. Work permits may be granted or extended by the Bermuda government upon showing that, after proper public advertisement in most cases, no Bermudian (or spouse of a Bermudian, holder of a permanent resident’s certificate or holder of a working resident’s certificate) is available who meets the minimum standard requirements for the advertised position. The Bermuda government limits the duration of work permits to six years, with certain exemptions for key employees. All but one of our officers are working in Bermuda under work permits with expiry dates. The work permits for our senior management will expire at various dates beginning in 2008. It is possible that we could lose the services of one or more of these people if we are unable to obtain or renew their work permits, which could interrupt our ability to execute our business strategy and require us to seek replacement personnel at higher cost. In the event we are unable to obtain sufficient work permits to allow our operations to continue in Bermuda, we might seek to maintain our business model in another tax efficient jurisdiction and could incur significant costs in relocating our operations. We rely to a significant degree on the underwriting decisions of the primary insurers and the risks associated with reinsurance underwriting could adversely affect us. 24 We conduct a substantial amount of our reinsurance business through reinsurance treaties entered into with certain primary insurers. As of December 31, 2006, we had quota share reinsurance treaties in place with three of the four largest primary insurers. All financial guaranty transactions entered into by a primary insurer that meet a treaty’s inclusion parameters are automatically ceded to us, according to the participation percentage set forth in the treaty. The inclusion parameters would typically consist of any financial guaranty of an issue generally with an underlying investment grade rating by both Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s and exceeding a specified par value, subject to limits and exclusions, which we have the right to change periodically, related to, for example, sector, geographic location or identity of an issuer or seller/servicer. Individual transactions entered into with a primary insurer that are “treaty eligible” may not be rejected by us during the term of the reinsurance treaty. We do not separately evaluate each of the individual risks assumed under our reinsurance treaties. Therefore, we depend to a significant degree on the original underwriting decisions made by primary insurers. We cannot assure you that these primary insurers will adequately evaluate the risks underwritten by them and subsequently reinsured by us. Any unfavorable decisions made by these primary insurers could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations and the premiums ceded may not adequately compensate us for the risks we assume. Adverse selection by ceding primary insurers may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Most of our reinsurance business is written under treaties which generally give a primary insurer some ability to select the obligations ceded to us as long as the obligations are covered by the terms of the treaty. Under our treaties, we generally do not have the right to refuse such obligations, although we do have some ability to add to “exclusion lists” certain categories of obligations that we will not be required to reinsure. As a result, primary insurers may adversely select the insured obligations ceded to us (that is, cede those policies that have greater risk relative to premium), thereby increasing the chances that we will pay a claim or be required to maintain additional capital by the rating agencies. Adverse selection by the primary insurers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may incur liabilities because of the unconditional nature of our financial guaranty reinsurance policies. Issuers of obligations insured by the financial guarantors whose obligations we reinsure may default on those obligations because of fraudulent or other intentional misconduct on the part of such issuers, their officers or directors, employees, agents or outside advisers or, in the case of public finance obligations, public officials. Financial guaranty reinsurance provided by us is unconditional and does not provide for any exclusion of liability based on fraud or other misconduct. Despite any risk analysis conducted by us or by the financial guarantors we reinsure, it is impossible to predict which, if any, of the obligations reinsured by us will result in claims against us because of such fraudulent or other intentional misconduct involving the issuer, or whether or to what extent we will have any remedy available to us against any party in connection with such conduct. Any such claims could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The performance of our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by economic conditions and by decisions of our investment manager. Investment income is one of the primary sources of cash flow supporting our operations and claim payments. The success of our investment activity is influenced by general economic conditions that may adversely affect the markets for interest rate sensitive securities, including the extent and timing of investor participation in such markets, the level and volatility of interest rates and, consequently, the value of such fixed-income securities. In addition, if our claims exceed our cash flow, we could have unexpected losses resulting from forced liquidation of investments before their maturity. We have retained the professional asset management firm of MBIA Capital Management Corp., or MBIA Capital, a wholly-owned subsidiary of one of our customers, to manage our investment portfolio. Our investment manager has discretionary authority over our investment portfolio, subject to the investment guidelines adopted by us and periodic review by the Risk Management Committee of our board of directors. As a result, the performance of our investment portfolio depends to a great extent on the ability of our investment manager to select and manage appropriate investments. Although our investment policies stress diversification of risks and conservation of principal and liquidity, our investments are subject to market-wide risks 25 and fluctuations, as well as to risks inherent in any particular security or security position. Investment losses could significantly decrease our assets and surplus, which is the amount remaining after all liabilities, including loss reserves, are subtracted from all admitted assets, resulting in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our net income may be volatile because a portion of the credit risk we assume is in the form of credit derivatives that are accounted for under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, or FAS 133, which requires that these instruments be revalued quarterly. Credit derivatives are classified as derivatives under FAS 133. Derivatives must be accounted for either as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet and measured at fair market value. Any event causing credit spreads (that is, the difference in interest rates between comparable securities having different credit risk) on an underlying security referenced in a credit derivative in our portfolio either to widen or to tighten may affect the fair value of the credit derivative and may increase the volatility of our earnings. Although there is no cash flow effect from this “marking to market,” net changes in the fair market value of the derivative are reported in our statement of operations and therefore will affect our reported earnings. If the derivative is held to maturity and no credit loss is incurred, any losses or gains previously reported would be offset by corresponding gains or losses during the term of the derivative such that they would cumulatively net to zero at maturity. Common events that may cause credit spreads on an underlying municipal or corporate security referenced in a credit derivative to fluctuate include changes in the state of national or regional economic conditions, industry cyclicality, changes to a company’s competitive position within an industry, management changes, changes in the ratings of the underlying security, movements in interest rates, default or failure to pay interest, or any other factor leading investors to revise expectations about the issuer’s ability to pay principal and interest on its debt obligations. Similarly, common events that may cause credit spreads on an underlying structured security referenced in a credit derivative to fluctuate may include the occurrence and severity of collateral defaults, changes in demographic trends and their impact on the levels of credit enhancement, rating changes, changes in interest rates or prepayment speeds, or any other factor leading investors to revise expectations about the risk of the collateral or the ability of the servicer to collect payments on the underlying assets sufficient to pay principal and interest. Estimating the fair value of credit derivatives involves substantial judgment as there is no standard accepted fair value model. All models require significant assumptions and many derivatives are not actively traded or exchanged. We could face unanticipated losses from war, terrorism, business failures, political unrest and natural disasters, and these or other unanticipated losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may have exposure to large, unexpected losses resulting from future man-made and natural catastrophic events, such as acts of war, acts of terrorism, political instability, hurricanes, earthquakes and floods. These risks are inherently unpredictable and recent events may lead to increased frequency and severity of defaults under the policies we reinsure. It is difficult to predict the timing of these events with statistical certainty or to estimate the amount of loss that any given occurrence will generate. To the extent that losses from these risks occur in excess of amounts we have reserved, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our holding company structure and certain regulatory and other constraints affect our ability to pay dividends and make other payments. RAM Holdings is a holding company and as such has no substantial operations of its own or assets other than its ownership of the shares of its only subsidiary, RAM Re. For the near future, dividends and other permitted distributions from RAM Re are expected to be RAM Holdings’ only source of funds to meet ongoing cash requirements, including debt service payments and other expenses, and to pay dividends, if any, to shareholders. Bermuda law and regulations, including but not limited to Bermuda insurance regulations, restrict the declaration and payment of dividends and the making of distributions by RAM Re, unless certain regulatory requirements are met. In addition, certain treaty obligations incurred by RAM Re in the course of its business require it to post collateral in trusts and those funds are unavailable for dividend or distribution to RAM Holdings. The inability of RAM Re to pay dividends in an amount sufficient to enable RAM Holdings to meet its cash requirements at the 26 holding company level could affect RAM Holdings’ ability to repay debt or have a material adverse effect on its operations. RAM Holdings is also subject to regulatory constraints in Bermuda that will affect its ability to pay dividends on its common shares and make other payments. In addition, payments of principal to the holder of our $40.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6.875% Senior Notes due 2024 and payments of dividends on our Series A Preference Shares will receive priority over any payments of dividends on our common shares. See “ Risks Related to Our Status as a Bermuda Company — Our ability to pay dividends may be limited by Bermuda law,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources,” and “Regulation”. Estimates of losses, income and expenses relating to underwriting financial guaranty products are based on modeling and assumptions that, if incorrect, could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our decisions to underwrite financial guaranty products are based on historical data and models. There can be no assurance that the historical data relating to financial guaranty losses available to and relied on by the industry, including us, will approximate actual experience in the future. For example, the sample period for observed occurrences may not be adequate, the underlying conditions from which historical loss data were derived inadequate. Actual cash flows may also deviate significantly from assumptions, and such deviations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. If claims exceed our loss reserves, our financial results could be significantly adversely affected. Our results of operations and financial condition depend upon our ability to assess accurately and manage the potential losses associated with the risks that we reinsure. There is a diversity of practice within the financial guaranty industry in loss reserving practices and setting our loss reserves involves significant reliance on estimates of the likelihood, magnitude and timing of anticipated losses. In making such estimates, we significantly rely on reports of loss claims from our primary insurers. We establish both case basis and unallocated reserves for losses. We establish case basis reserves when we determine a default has occurred or there is a high probability of a default. We also maintain unallocated reserves to reflect our estimate of general deterioration in our insured credits. While we use the most current information available and our best judgment in setting reserve estimates, this is an inherently uncertain process. Accordingly, actual claims and claim expenses paid will deviate from the reserve estimates reflected in our consolidated financial statements, and such deviations could be material. If our loss reserves at any time are determined to be inadequate, we will be required to increase loss reserves at the time of such determination. This could significantly adversely impact our financial results. Several of our founding shareholders may have conflicts of interest with us and they may take actions with respect to their ownership interests that have an adverse effect on us or on our other shareholders. Some of our shareholders engage in commercial activities and enter into transactions or agreements with us or in competition with us, which may give rise to conflicts of interest. For example, our shareholders who are or who have ownership interests in other companies offering financial guaranty insurance or reinsurance may provide business or capital to our competitors. On October 23, 2006, our shareholder PMI announced the launch of PMI Guaranty, a double-A rated provider of credit enhancement for mortgages and other asset classes with an initial statutory capital position of $200 million, which will offer select financial guaranty reinsurance products. We do not have any agreement or understanding with our shareholders regarding the resolution of potential conflicts of interest and these parties may take actions that are not in our other shareholders’ best interests. For more discussion of these issues, please see the information incorporated under the caption “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions ” and “Director Independence” by reference to our Proxy Statement. In addition, we may not be in a position to influence any party’s decision to engage in activities that would give rise to a conflict of interest. For example, PMI has more than 20% of the voting power of our shares and therefore has the ability to elect two directors through cumulative voting. PMI could use its influence in a manner adverse to our other shareholders’ best interests, such as with respect to votes on matters requiring shareholder approval such as the election of directors, amendments to our bye-laws and mergers and acquisitions. 27 Risks Related to Our Industry The primary financial guaranty insurance industry remains in an excess capital position which, if it continues, could result in lower amounts of insurance ceded. Because of the significant increase in capital by many of the large primary insurers and the recent lower growth in new business, many of the primary insurers have sufficient capital to support their business pursuant to regulatory and rating agency capital requirements. This is one reason why the primary insurers have ceded less reinsurance in recent years than was typical, for example, during the 1990’s. If this excess capital position continues for a prolonged period, the primary insurers are likely to cut back or cancel treaties, increase ceding commissions, increase adverse selection of obligations ceded to reinsurers and generally diminish the business terms on which they cede business. Any of these activities would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. Increased capacity in the financial guaranty reinsurance industry may have a material adverse effect on the industry. The current number of financial guaranty reinsurance companies is relatively limited. Consequently, the industry is particularly vulnerable to swings in capacity based on the entry or exit of one or a small number of financial guaranty reinsurers. The most significant barriers to entry for new financial guaranty reinsurance competitors are rating agency requirements and regulatory capital requirements, both of which are lower for entrants into the financial guaranty reinsurance market than for the primary financial guaranty market. New entrants into the market could have an adverse effect on all financial guaranty reinsurers by offering reinsurance on more favorable terms than currently being offered by existing reinsurers. Market demand for financial guaranty products may decrease, affecting the profitability and competitiveness of the reinsurance industry. The demand for financial guaranty reinsurance depends upon many factors, most of which are beyond our control. In addition to the capital position of the primary insurers, the financial guaranty reinsurance industry, and the risks associated with the industry, tend to be cyclical and track the demand for primary financial guaranty insurance. The primary financial guaranty insurance industry could be materially adversely affected by extended national or regional economic recessions, business failures, terrorist acts, acts of war or combinations of such factors. In particular, the perceived financial strength of financial guaranty insurers affects demand for financial guaranty insurance, which in turn affects demand for reinsurance. Should a major financial guarantor, or the industry generally, have its financial strength ratings lowered, or suffer a deterioration in investor confidence, demand for financial guaranty insurance and as a result, reinsurance, may be reduced or eliminated entirely. Further, demand for financial guaranty insurance may be negatively affected to the extent that conditions arise which narrow the credit spread between insured and uninsured obligations or between “AAA” rated securities and lower rated securities. The purchase of insurance during periods of relatively narrower credit rate spreads will generally provide lower cost savings to the issuer than during periods of relatively wider spreads. These lower cost savings generally are accompanied by a corresponding decrease in demand for financial guaranty insurance and as a result, decreased demand for the type of reinsurance that we provide. Premium rates for financial guaranty reinsurance products may decline due to factors beyond the control of financial guaranty reinsurers. Premium rates on financial guaranty reinsurance are equal to premium rates charged by the primary insurer less the ceding commission paid by the reinsurer. Premium rates charged by primary insurers are affected by factors beyond the control of financial guaranty reinsurers, such as investor appraisals of the insured credits, the spread between interest rates prevailing on insured and uninsured obligations and capital charges (which is a measure of portfolio risk by a rating agency based on an expected loss, considering the expected default frequency and loss severity) associated with these exposures as determined by the rating agencies, competition among primary insurers as well as competition with other forms of credit enhancement. Accordingly, any decline in premium rates on business written by the primary insurers would have a negative effect on the premium rates and the profitability of reinsurers, including us. 28 Changes to accounting rules relating to the financial guaranty insurance and reinsurance industry could have a material adverse effect on the industry. In January and February of 2005, the SEC discussed with financial guaranty industry participants the diversity in practice with respect to their accounting policies for loss reserves. In June 2005, the FASB added a project to its agenda to consider the accounting by financial guaranty insurers for claims liability recognition, premium recognition and deferred acquisition costs. The proposed and final documents are expected to be issued during 2007. When the FASB issues authoritative guidance on this matter, we and the rest of the financial guaranty industry may be required to change some aspects of our loss reserving policies, premium recognition and acquisition cost recognition. Until the authoritative guidance is issued, RAM Re intends to continue to apply its existing policies with respect to its accounting for the establishment of both case and unallocated reserves as well as for premium recognition and deferred acquisition costs. Legislative and regulatory changes and interpretations could harm the financial guaranty reinsurance industry. Changes in laws and regulations affecting the public finance and structured securities markets, the financial guaranty insurance and reinsurance markets and the credit derivative markets, as well as other governmental regulations, may subject reinsurers of financial guaranty products to additional legal liability, affect the demand for the products they provide or increase costs. The business and legal liabilities of reinsurers of financial guaranty products may also be affected by consumer lending and insurance laws and regulations in the countries of policy origin. If changes with respect to these laws and regulations are resolved in a way that is unfavorable to the industry, revenues and profitability of the industry could significantly decline. Risks Related to our Common Shares There are provisions in our bye-laws that may reduce or increase the voting rights of our common shares. In general, and except as provided below, shareholders have one vote for each common share held by them and are entitled to vote at all meetings of shareholders. However, if, and so long as, the shares of a shareholder are treated as “controlled shares” of any U.S. Person (as defined in “Risks Related to Taxation — Holders of 10% or more of our shares may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation under the controlled foreign corporation rules”) other than PMI, and such controlled shares constitute more than 9.9% of the votes conferred by our issued shares, the voting rights with respect to the controlled shares of such U.S. Person (that is, a “9.9% U.S. Shareholder”) shall be limited, in the aggregate, to a voting power of 9.9%, under a procedure specified in our bye-laws. The procedure is applied repeatedly until the voting power of all 9.9% U.S. Shareholders has been reduced to 9.9% . In addition, our board of directors may limit a shareholder’s voting rights where it deems appropriate to do so to (i) avoid the existence of any 9.9% U.S. Shareholders or 24.5% U.S. Shareholders (as defined below), and (ii) avoid non-de minimis adverse tax, legal or regulatory consequences to us, any direct or indirect holder of our shares or its affiliates. “Controlled shares” include, among other things, all of our shares that a U.S. Person is deemed to own directly, indirectly or constructively (within the meaning of sections 957 and 958 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which we refer to as the Code). In addition, at any time that the controlled shares of PMI constitute (i) more than 9.9% of the voting power conferred by our issued shares and (ii) 24.5% or more of either the voting power or value of our issued shares (that is, a 24.5% U.S. Shareholder), the voting rights with respect to the controlled shares owned by PMI will be limited to a voting power of 9.9% . For example, the voting power of shares owned by an investor may be reduced or in certain cases eliminated, if, pursuant to certain constructive ownership rules, shares owned or deemed to be owned by the investor are attributed to another investor or shares owned or deemed owned by another investor are attributed to the investor or the investor is invested in an entity in which another investor invests. In the event the above voting limitations must be applied as described above, the voting limitation shall apply to PMI only after the limitation has been applied to all other shareholders whose votes are subject to reduction 29 and the voting power held by PMI shall not be reduced to below 9.9% by operation of these provisions. This would likely have the effect of eliminating the voting power of all other shareholders whose votes are subject to reduction. Under these provisions, certain shareholders may have their voting rights limited to less than one vote per share, while other shareholders may have voting rights in excess of one vote per share. Moreover, these provisions could have the effect of reducing the votes of certain shareholders who would not otherwise be subject to the 9.9% limitation by virtue of their direct share ownership. Our bye-laws provide that we will endeavor to notify shareholders of their voting interests prior to any vote taken by them. We also have the authority under our bye-laws to request specified information from any shareholder for the purpose of determining whether a shareholder’s voting rights are to be reallocated under the bye-laws. If a shareholder fails to respond to our request for information or submits incomplete or inaccurate information in response to a request by us, we may, in our sole discretion, eliminate such shareholder’s voting rights. Our board of directors may be more likely to exercise their right under our bye-laws to decline to approve a transfer of common shares because of potential adverse tax, legal or regulatory consequences, and that may require shareholders to sell their common shares. Our board of directors may decline to approve or register a transfer of any common shares (1) if it appears to the board of directors, after taking into account the limitations on voting rights contained in our bye-laws, that a non-de minimis adverse tax, regulatory or legal consequence to us, any direct or indirect holder of our shares or its affiliates may occur as a result of such transfer, or (2) subject to any applicable requirements of or commitments to any exchange or trading system for our common shares, if a written opinion from counsel supporting the legality of the transaction under U.S. securities laws has not been provided or if any required governmental approvals have not been obtained. Our board of directors may be more likely to exercise their right under our bye-laws to decline to approve a repurchase of our own shares and an issuance of any of our unissued shares because of potential adverse tax, legal or regulatory consequences. Under our bye-laws and subject to Bermuda law, our board of directors may decline to approve a repurchase of our shares or an issuance of any of our unissued shares (including the issuance of any shares or class of shares with preferred, deferred or other special rights) if the board of directors determines that it may result in a non-de minimis adverse tax, legal or regulatory consequence to us, any direct or indirect holder of our shares or its affiliates. Risks Related to Our Status as a Bermuda Company Risks of operating as a foreign corporation could adversely affect our ability to conduct business in the United States We do not maintain an office or solicit insurance business, advertise, settle claims or conduct other insurance activities in any jurisdiction other than Bermuda where the conduct of such activities would require us to be so authorized or admitted. We believe we conduct our U.S. business in a manner similar to that employed by other non-admitted reinsurers that provide reinsurance to U.S. primary insurers. We believe that, to the extent that these operating guidelines are followed, our activities comply with applicable insurance laws and regulations. While we are not admitted to do business in any jurisdiction except Bermuda, insurance departments in the United States or elsewhere might take the position that our activities violate the prohibitions on the transaction of insurance by a non-admitted insurer. The insurance laws of each state of the United States and of many non-U.S. jurisdictions regulate the sale of insurance and reinsurance within that jurisdiction by alien insurers and reinsurers, such as us, which are not authorized or admitted to do business within such jurisdiction. If a state insurance department were to raise this issue and prevail, it could argue further that we are transacting insurance in that state without appropriate licenses or approvals. In that event, the insurance department could attempt to take any of several actions, including imposing fines or penalties on us. There can be no assurance that our location, regulatory status or restrictions on our activities resulting therefrom would not adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. In the event such issues or disputes arise, we may be required to consider various alternatives to our operations, including modifying or 30 restricting the manner of conducting our business or, with respect to cessions by primary insurers in the United States, applying to conduct business as an admitted or approved reinsurer, establishing trust funds to secure our reinsurance performance or having to comply with the various financial and other requirements necessary to operate on an admitted or approved basis, either directly or by subjecting us to U.S. taxation. Bermuda insurance regulations may adversely affect our ability to write reinsurance policies. We are registered and licensed to conduct insurance and reinsurance from within Bermuda, and the statutes, regulations and policies of Bermuda may affect our ability to write reinsurance policies and to make certain investments or distributions. Bermuda statutes and regulations applicable to us require that we, among other things: maintain minimum levels of capital and surplus, satisfy solvency standards, restrict dividends and distributions (including returns of capital), and cooperate with certain periodic and other examinations by the BMA of our financial condition. We are unable to predict what additional government regulations, if any, affecting our business may be promulgated in Bermuda in the future or how such regulations may be interpreted. In addition, no assurances can be given that, if we were to become subject to any insurance laws of the U.S. or any state thereof or of any other country at any time in the future, we would be in compliance with such laws. Our ability to pay dividends may be limited by Bermuda law. Any dividends paid on our common shares are subject to limitations imposed on dividends under Bermuda law and regulations. Under the Bermuda Insurance Act 1978, which we refer to as the Bermuda Insurance Act, and related regulations, RAM Re will be required to maintain certain minimum solvency levels and RAM Re will be prohibited from declaring or paying dividends that would result in noncompliance with such requirement. Further, RAM Re may not reduce its total statutory capital by 15% or more, as set out in its previous year’s financial statements, without the prior approval of the BMA. In addition, under the Bermuda Companies Act, we may only declare or pay a dividend if, among other matters, there are reasonable grounds for believing that we are, and will be after any such payment, able to pay our liabilities as they become due and that the realizable value of our assets will not thereby be less than the sum of the issued share capital and share premium accounts. These restrictions may limit the amount of funds available for distribution to holders of our common shares. U.S. Persons who own our common shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests than if they held shares of a U.S. corporation. The Bermuda Companies Act, which applies to us, differs in certain material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. Set forth below is a summary of certain significant provisions of the Bermuda Companies Act which includes, where relevant, information on modifications thereto adopted pursuant to our bye-laws, applicable to us, which differ in certain respects from provisions of Delaware corporate law. Because the following statements are summaries, they do not discuss all aspects of Bermuda law that may be relevant to us and our shareholders. Interested Directors. Bermuda law and our bye-laws provide that we cannot void any transaction we enter into in which a director has an interest, nor can such director be liable to us for any profit realized pursuant to such transaction, provided the nature of the interest is disclosed at the first opportunity at a meeting of directors, or in writing, to the directors. Under Delaware law such transaction would not be voidable if: (i) the material facts as to such interested director’s relationship or interests were disclosed or were known to the board of directors and the board had in good faith authorized the transaction by the affirmative vote of a majority of the disinterested directors, (ii) such material facts were disclosed or were known to the stockholders entitled to vote on such transaction and the transaction was specifically approved in good faith by vote of the majority of shares entitled to vote thereon, or (iii) the transaction was fair as to the corporation as of the time it was authorized, approved or ratified. Under Delaware law, the interested director could be held liable for a transaction in which the director derived an improper personal benefit. Business Combinations with Large Shareholders or Affiliates. As a Bermuda company, we may enter into business combinations with our large shareholders or affiliates, including asset sales and other transactions in which a large shareholder or affiliate receives, or could receive, a financial benefit that is greater than that received, or to be received, by other shareholders, with prior approval from our board of directors but without obtaining prior 31 approval from our shareholders. Amalgamations require the approval of the board of directors and, except in the case of certain types of amalgamations, a resolution of the shareholders approved by at least 66% of the votes cast. If we were a Delaware corporation, we would need prior approval from our board of directors or a supermajority of our shareholders to enter into a business combination with an interested shareholder for a period of three years from the time the person became an interested shareholder, unless we opted out of the relevant Delaware statute. Shareholders’ Suits. The rights of shareholders under Bermuda law are not as extensive as the rights of shareholders in many U.S. jurisdictions. Class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under the laws of Bermuda. However, the Bermuda courts ordinarily would be expected to follow English case law precedent, which would permit a shareholder to commence an action in the name of the company to remedy a wrong done to the company where an act is alleged to be beyond the corporate power of the company, is illegal or would result in the violation of our memorandum of association or bye-laws. Furthermore, consideration would be given by the court to acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against the minority shareholders or where an act requires the approval of a greater percentage of our shareholders than actually approved it. The winning party in such an action generally would be able to recover a portion of attorneys’ fees incurred in connection with such action. When the affairs of a company are being conducted in a manner which is oppressive or prejudicial to the interests of some part of the shareholders, one or more shareholders may apply to the Supreme Court of Bermuda, which may make such order as it sees fit, including an order regulating the conduct of the company’s affairs in the future or ordering the purchase of the shares of any shareholders by other shareholders or by the company. Our bye-laws provide that shareholders waive all claims or rights of action that they might have, individually or in the right of the company, against any director or officer for any act or failure to act in the performance of such director’s or officer’s duties, except with respect to any fraud or dishonesty of such director or officer. Class actions and derivative actions generally are available to stockholders under Delaware law for, among other things, breach of fiduciary duty, corporate waste and actions not taken in accordance with applicable law. In such actions, the court has discretion to permit the winning party to recover attorneys’ fees incurred in connection with such action. Indemnification of Directors and Officers. We will indemnify our directors or officers or any person appointed to any committee by the board of directors acting in their capacity as such in relation to any of our affairs for any loss arising or liability attaching to them by virtue of any rule of law in respect of any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust of which such person may be guilty in relation to the company other than in respect of his own fraud or dishonesty. Under Delaware law, a corporation may indemnify a director or officer of the corporation against expenses (including attorneys’ fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred in defense of an action, suit or proceeding by reason of such position if such director or officer acted in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably believed to be in or not be opposed to the best interests of the corporation and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, such director or officer had no reasonable cause to believe his or her conduct was unlawful. Because we are a Bermuda company, it may be difficult to enforce judgments against us or against our directors and executive officers. Because we are organized under the laws of Bermuda, it may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the U.S. against us based on the civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the U.S. in Bermuda or in countries other than the U.S. where we have assets. In addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda and other countries would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the U.S., or would hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised by our legal advisors in Bermuda that the U.S. and Bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the U.S. based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on U.S. federal or state securities law, would not automatically be enforceable in Bermuda. There are grounds upon which a Bermuda court may not enforce the judgments of U.S. courts and some remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions, including some remedies available under U.S. federal securities laws, may not be permitted under Bermuda courts as contrary to public policy in Bermuda. Similarly, those judgments may not be enforceable in countries other than the U.S. where we have assets. Further, no claim may be brought in Bermuda by or against us or our directors and officers in the first instance for violation of U.S. federal securities laws because these laws have no extraterritorial application under Bermuda law and do not have force of law in Bermuda; 32 however, a Bermuda court may impose civil liability, including the possibility of monetary damages, on us or our directors and officers if the facts alleged in a complaint constitute or give rise to a cause of action under Bermuda law. Risks Related to Taxation We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after 2016, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results and on an investment in our shares. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, as amended, of Bermuda, has given each of RAM Holdings and RAM Re an assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to RAM Holdings, RAM Re or any of their respective operations or their respective shares, debentures or other obligations (except insofar as such tax applies to persons ordinarily resident in Bermuda or to any taxes payable by them in respect of real property or leasehold interests in Bermuda held by them) until March 28, 2016. Given the limited duration of the Minister of Finance’s assurance, we cannot be certain that we will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after March 28, 2016. Since we are incorporated in Bermuda, we will be subject to changes of law or regulation in Bermuda that may have an adverse impact on our operations, including imposition of tax liability. The impact of Bermuda’s letter of commitment to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or the OECD, to eliminate harmful tax practices is uncertain and could adversely affect our tax status in Bermuda. The OECD has published reports and launched a global dialogue among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of tax havens and preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. In the OECD’s report dated April 18, 2002 and updated as of June 2004, Bermuda was not listed as an “uncooperative tax haven.” Bermuda has signed a letter committing itself to eliminate harmful tax practices and to embrace international tax standards for transparency, exchange of information and the elimination of any aspects of the regimes for financial and other services that attract business with no substantial domestic activity. We are not able to predict what changes will arise from the commitment or whether such changes will subject us to additional taxes. We may be subject to U.S. federal income tax, which would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and on an investment in our shares. If either RAM Holdings or RAM Re were considered to be engaged in a trade or business in the United States, it could be subject to U.S. federal income and additional branch profits taxes on the portion of its earnings that are effectively connected to such U.S. business or in the case of RAM Re, if it is entitled to benefits under the United States income tax treaty with Bermuda and if RAM Re were considered engaged in a trade or business in the United States through a permanent establishment, RAM Re could be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the portion of its earnings that are attributable to its permanent establishment in the United States, in which case its results of operations could be materially adversely affected. RAM Holdings and RAM Re are Bermuda companies. We intend to manage our business so that each of these companies should operate in such a manner that neither of these companies should be treated as engaged in a U.S. trade or business and, thus, should not be subject to U.S. federal taxation (other than U.S. federal excise tax on insurance and reinsurance premium income attributable to insuring or reinsuring U.S. risks and U.S. federal withholding tax on certain U.S. source investment income). However, because there is considerable uncertainty as to the activities which constitute being engaged in a trade or business within the United States, we cannot be certain that the IRS will not contend successfully that we are engaged in a trade or business in the U.S. Holders of 10% or more of our shares may be subject to U.S. income taxation under the controlled foreign corporation rules. If you are a “10% U.S. Shareholder” of a foreign corporation (defined as a U.S. Person who owns (directly, indirectly through foreign entities or constructively (as defined below) at least 10% of the total combined voting 33 power of all classes of stock entitled to vote) that is a controlled foreign corporation, which we refer to as a CFC, for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during a taxable year, and you own shares in the CFC directly or indirectly through foreign entities on the last day of the CFC’s taxable year, you must include in your gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes your pro rata share of the CFC’s “subpart F income,” even if the subpart F income is not distributed. “Subpart F income” of a foreign insurance corporation typically includes foreign personal holding company income (such as interest, dividends and other types of passive income), as well as insurance and reinsurance income (including underwriting and investment income). A foreign corporation is considered a CFC if 10% U.S. Shareholders own (directly, indirectly through foreign entities or by attribution by application of the constructive ownership rules of section 958(b) of the Code) (that is, “constructively”) more than 50% of the total combined voting power of all classes of voting stock of that foreign corporation or the total value of all stock of that corporation. For purposes of taking into account insurance income, a CFC also includes a foreign insurance company in which more than 25% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock (or more than 25% of the total value of the stock) is owned (directly, indirectly through non-U.S. entities or constructively) by 10% U.S. Shareholders on any day during the taxable year of such corporation. For purposes of this discussion, the term “U.S. Person” means: (i) an individual citizen or resident of the United States, (ii) a partnership or corporation created or organized in or under the laws of the United States, or under the laws of any State thereof (including the District of Columbia), (iii) an estate, the income of which is subject to U.S. federal income taxation regardless of its source, (iv) a trust if either (x) a court within the United States is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of such trust and one or more U.S. Persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of such trust or (y) the trust has a valid election in effect to be treated as a U.S. Person for U.S. federal income tax purposes or (v) any other person or entity that is treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as if it were one of the foregoing. We believe, subject to the discussion below, that because of the anticipated dispersion of our share ownership, provisions in our organizational documents that limit voting power and other factors, no U.S. Person other than PMI who owns our common shares directly or indirectly through one or more foreign entities should be treated as owning (directly, indirectly through foreign entities or constructively) 10% or more of the total voting power of all classes of RAM Holdings’ or RAM Re’s shares. The provisions in our organizational documents that limit voting power could reduce or eliminate an investor’s voting power in circumstances in which, pursuant to certain constructive ownership rules, shares owned or deemed owned by the investor are attributed to another investor or shares owned or deemed owned by another investor are attributed to the investor or the investor is invested in an entity in which another investor invests. However, neither we nor investors may be aware of circumstances in which shares may be so attributed in order to timely effectuate these provisions. In addition, the IRS could challenge the effectiveness of the provisions in our organizational documents and a court could sustain such a challenge. U.S. Persons who hold our shares may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation at ordinary income rates on their proportionate share of RAM Re’s related person insurance income. If U.S. persons are treated as owning 25% or more of RAM Re’s shares (by vote or value) and the related person insurance income, or RPII (determined on a gross basis) of RAM Re were to equal or exceed 20% of RAM Re’s gross insurance income in any taxable year and direct or indirect insureds (and persons related to those insureds) own directly or indirectly through entities 20% or more of the voting power or value of our shares, then a U.S. Person who owns any shares of RAM Re (directly or indirectly through foreign entities) on the last day of the taxable year would be required to include in its income for U.S. federal income tax purposes such person’s pro rata share of RAM Re’s RPII for the entire taxable year, determined as if such RPII were distributed proportionately only to U.S. Persons at that date, regardless of whether such income is distributed. In addition, any RPII that is includible in the income of a U.S. tax-exempt organization may be treated as unrelated business taxable income. The amount of RPII earned by RAM Re (generally, premium and related investment income from the direct or indirect insurance or reinsurance of any direct or indirect U.S. holder of common shares or any person related to such holder) will depend on a number of factors, including the identity of persons directly or indirectly insured or reinsured by RAM Re. Although RAM Re’s gross RPII generally exceeded 20% of RAM Re’s gross insurance income in recent taxable 34 years, we believe that the direct or indirect insureds of RAM Re (and related persons) did not directly or indirectly own 20% or more of either the voting power or value of our shares in those prior years and we do not expect this ownership threshold to be exceeded in the foreseeable future. However, we cannot be certain that this will be the case because some of the factors which determine the extent of RPII may be beyond our control. U.S. Persons who dispose of our shares may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation at the rates applicable to dividends on a portion of their gains if any. The RPII rules provide that if a U.S. Person disposes of shares in a foreign insurance corporation in which U.S. Persons own 25% or more of the shares (even if the amount of gross RPII is less than 20% of the corporation’s gross insurance income and the ownership of its shares by direct or indirect insureds and related persons is less than the 20% threshold), any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as a dividend to the extent of the holder’s share of the corporation’s undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the holder owned the shares (whether or not such earnings and profits are attributable to RPII). In addition, such a holder will be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned by the holder. We do not believe that these RPII rules should apply to dispositions of our common shares because RAM Holdings will not be directly engaged in the insurance business. The RPII provisions, however, have never been interpreted by the courts or the U.S. Treasury Department in final regulations, and regulations interpreting the RPII provisions of the Code exist only in proposed form. It is not certain whether these regulations will be adopted in their proposed form or what changes or clarifications might ultimately be made thereto or whether any such changes, as well as any interpretation or application of the RPII rules by the IRS, the courts, or otherwise, might have retroactive effect. The U.S. Treasury Department has authority to impose, among other things, additional reporting requirements with respect to RPII. Accordingly, the meaning of the RPII provisions and the application thereof to RAM Holdings and RAM Re is uncertain. U.S. Persons who hold our shares will be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences if RAM Holdings is considered to be a passive foreign investment company. If RAM Holdings is considered a passive foreign investment company, or a PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, a U.S. Person who owns directly or, in some cases, indirectly (e.g. through a foreign partnership) any of our shares may be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences, including subjecting the investor to a greater tax liability than might otherwise apply and, if certain elections are made, subjecting the investor to a tax on amounts in advance of when such tax would otherwise be imposed, in which case your investment could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if RAM Holdings were considered a PFIC, upon the death of any U.S. individual owning common shares, such individual’s heirs or estate would not be entitled to a “step-up” in the basis of the common shares which might otherwise be available under U.S. federal income tax laws. We believe that we are not, and we currently do not expect to become, a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes; however, we cannot assure you that we will not be deemed a PFIC by the IRS. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC provisions to an insurance company. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying these rules may be forthcoming. We cannot predict what impact, if any, such guidance would have on an investor that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation. U.S. tax-exempt organizations that own our common shares may recognize unrelated business taxable income. A U.S. tax-exempt organization may recognize unrelated business taxable income if a portion of our insurance income is allocated to the organization. In general, insurance income will be allocated to a U.S. tax-exempt organization if either we are a CFC and the tax-exempt shareholder is a U.S. 10% Shareholder or there is RPII and certain exceptions do not apply. U.S. tax-exempt investors are urged to consult their tax advisors as to the potential impact of the unrelated business taxable income provisions of the Code. Changes in U.S. federal income tax law could materially adversely affect an investment in our common shares. Legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Congress intended to eliminate certain perceived tax advantages of companies (including insurance companies) that have legal domiciles outside the United States but 35 have certain U.S. connections. While there are no currently pending legislative proposals which, if enacted, would have a material adverse effect on us or our shareholders, it is possible that broader-based legislative proposals could emerge in the future that could have an adverse effect on us, or our shareholders. Additionally, the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations regarding whether a company is engaged in a trade or business within the United States, or is a PFIC or whether U.S. Persons would be required to include in their gross income the “subpart F income” or the RPII of a CFC are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC rules to insurance companies and the regulations regarding RPII are still in proposed form. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying such rules may be forthcoming. We cannot be certain if, when or in what form such regulations or pronouncements may be provided and whether such guidance will have a retroactive effect. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 