Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this report on Form 10-K and in other documents we file with the SEC, are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information in this report before investing in our ordinary shares. Our business could be seriously harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our ordinary shares could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business Current global economic conditions may have an impact on our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. Our operations and financial results depend on worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of business spending, which have deteriorated significantly in many countries and regions and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. Uncertainties in the financial and credit markets have caused our customers to postpone deliveries of ordered systems and placement of new orders. Continued uncertainties may reduce future sales of our products and services. While we believe we have a strong customer base and have experienced strong collections in the past, if the current market conditions continue to deteriorate, we may experience increased collection times and greater write-offs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow. In addition, the recent tightening of credit markets and concerns regarding the availability of credit may make it more difficult for our customers to raise capital, whether debt or equity, to finance their purchases of capital equipment, including the products we sell. Delays in our customers' ability to obtain such financing, or the unavailability of such financing, would adversely affect our product sales and revenues and therefore harm our business and operating results. We cannot predict the timing, duration of or effect on our business of the economic slowdown or the timing or strength of a subsequent recovery. Our business and operating results could be harmed by the highly cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry. Our business and operating results depend in significant part upon capital expenditures of semiconductor designers and manufacturers, which in turn depend upon the current and anticipated market demand for products incorporating semiconductors from these designers and manufacturers. Historically, the semiconductor industry has been highly cyclical with recurring periods of diminished product demand. During these periods, semiconductor designers and manufacturers, facing reduced demand for their products, have significantly reduced their capital and other expenditures, including expenditures for semiconductor test equipment and services such as those we offer. Furthermore, because we have a high proportion of customers that are subcontractors, which during market downturns tend to reduce or cancel orders for new test systems and test services more quickly and 21 Table of Contents dramatically than other customers, any downturn may cause a quicker and more significant adverse impact on our business than on the broader semiconductor industry. As a consequence, during these periods, we have experienced significant reductions in new orders for the products and services we offer, postponement or cancellation of existing customer orders, erosion of selling prices and write-offs of excess and obsolete inventory. We have experienced just such a cyclical downturn in our memory business during fiscal year 2008, with revenue for our memory test products declining to $64 million in fiscal year 2008, a 77.3% decrease from the $282 million recorded in the prior year. These factors have caused our customers to delay test system orders and to delay delivery of systems ordered. While this steep decline in memory product revenue was partially offset by strength in our SOC business during fiscal year 2008, we nonetheless remain subject to substantial cyclical fluctuations in revenues and orders. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period, and this may cause our share price to decline. In the past, we have experienced, and in the future we expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in revenue and operating results from quarter to quarter for a variety of reasons, including the risk factors described in this report. As a result of these and other risks, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue and operating results may not be meaningful and that these comparisons may not be an accurate indicator of our future performance. In addition, sales of a relatively limited number of our test systems account for a substantial portion of our net revenue in any particular quarter. In contrast, our costs are relatively fixed in the short-term. Thus, changes in the timing or terms of a small number of transactions could disproportionately affect our operating results in any particular quarter. Moreover, our operating results in one or more future quarters may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, we would expect to experience an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our ordinary shares. We cannot ensure that we will be able to reduce our expenses as planned, and if we are unable to do so, our operating results will be harmed. In the first quarter of fiscal year 2009, we announced that we are implementing a restructuring program to streamline our organization and further reduce operating costs in order to address the cyclical downturn in both the memory and SOC businesses. As part of this restructuring plan, we are reducing our global workforce through a combination of attrition, voluntary and involuntary terminations, and other workforce reduction programs consistent with local legal requirements. We have also implemented a salary freeze, cut back significantly on our use of temporary workers and reduced discretionary spending. There are several risks inherent in our efforts to reduce our cost structure. These include the risk that we will not be able to reduce expenditures quickly enough and hold them at a level necessary to breakeven, and that we may have to undertake further restructuring initiatives that would entail additional charges. Additionally, our cost-cutting initiatives may impair our ability to effectively develop and market products, to remain competitive in the markets in which we compete and to operate effectively. Each of the above measures could have long-term effects on our business by reducing our pool of technical talent, decreasing or slowing improvements in our products, making it more difficult for us to respond to customers, limiting our ability to increase production quickly if and when the demand for our products increases and limiting our ability to hire and retain key personnel. We cannot ensure that we will be able to reduce our expenses as planned, and if we are unable to do so, our operating results will be harmed. 22 Table of Contents We have a limited ability to quickly or significantly reduce our costs, which makes us particularly vulnerable to the highly cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry. Historically, downturns in the semiconductor industry have affected the test equipment and services market more significantly than the overall semiconductor industry. A significant portion of our overall costs are fixed. Because a high proportion of our costs are fixed, we have a limited ability to reduce expenses and manufacturing inventory purchases quickly in response to decreases in orders and revenues. Moreover, to remain competitive even during downturns in the semiconductor industry or generally, we must maintain a significant level of costs, including fixed costs. As a consequence, the cost reductions we expect to implement during the current economic downturn, and similar measures we may take in future downturns, may not be sufficient to remain profitable through the downturn. Our dependence on sole source suppliers may prevent us from delivering our products on a timely basis. We rely on sole source suppliers, some of whom are relatively small in size, for many of the components we use in our products, including custom integrated circuits, relays and other electronic components. In the past, we experienced, and in the future may experience, delays in shipping our products due to our dependence on sole source suppliers. Failure of our sole source suppliers to meet our requirements in a timely manner could impair our ability to ship products and to realize the related revenues when anticipated, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. We are dependent on contract manufacturers with whom we do not have long-term contracts, and changes to those relationships, expected or unexpected, may result in delays or disruptions that could cause us to lose revenue and damage our customer relationships. We rely entirely on contract manufacturers, including Flextronics, Jabil and Zollner. Our reliance on contract manufacturers gives us less control over the manufacturing process and exposes us to significant risks, including limited control over capacity, late delivery, quality and costs. Although we have contracts with our contract manufacturers, those contracts do not require them to manufacture our products on a long-term basis in any specific quantity or at any specific price. In addition, it is time consuming and costly to qualify and implement additional contract manufacturer relationships. Therefore, if we should fail to effectively manage our contract manufacturer relationships or if one or more of them should experience delays, disruptions or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations, or if we had to change or add additional contract manufacturers or contract manufacturing sites, our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed. Also, the addition of manufacturing locations or contract manufacturers may increase the complexity of our supply chain management. We cannot be certain that existing or future contract manufacturers will be able to manufacture our products on a timely and cost-effective basis, or to our quality and performance specifications. If our contract manufacturers are unable to meet our manufacturing requirements in a timely manner, our ability to ship products and to realize the related revenues when anticipated could be materially affected. The market for semiconductor test equipment and services is highly concentrated, and we have limited opportunities to sell our test equipment and services. The semiconductor industry is highly concentrated in that a small number of semiconductor designers and manufacturers and subcontractors account for a substantial portion of the purchases of semiconductor test equipment and services generally, including our test equipment and services. For the year ended October 31, 2008, revenue from our top ten customers accounted for approximately 57.6% of our total net revenue, with one customer accounting for more than 10% of our total net revenue. Consolidation in the semiconductor industry is increasing this concentration. Accordingly, we expect that sales of our products will continue to be concentrated with a limited number of large customers 23 Table of Contents for the foreseeable future. Our financial results will depend in large part on this concentrated base of customers' sales and business results. Our relationships with our significant customers, who frequently evaluate competitive products prior to placing new orders, could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: •a decision by our customers to purchase test equipment and services from our competitors; •a decision by our customers to pursue the development and implementation of self-testing integrated circuits or other strategies that reduce their need for our products; •the loss of market share by our customers in the markets in which they operate; •the shift by our IDM customers to out-sourced manufacturing models; •our ability to keep pace with changes in semiconductor technology; •our ability to maintain quality levels of our equipment and services that meet customer expectations; •our ability to produce and deliver sufficient quantities of our test equipment in a timely manner; and •our ability to provide quality customer service and support. If we do not maintain and expand existing customer relationships and establish new customer relationships, our ability to generate revenue growth will be adversely affected. Our ability to increase our sales will depend in large part upon our ability to obtain orders for new test systems, enhancements for existing test systems and services from our existing and new customers. Maintaining and expanding our existing relationships and establishing new ones can require substantial investment without any assurance from customers that they will place significant orders. Moreover, if we are unable to provide new test systems, enhancements for existing test systems and services to our customers in a timely fashion or in sufficient quantities, our business will be harmed. In the past we have experienced, and in our industry it is not unusual to experience, difficulty in delivering new test equipment, as well as product enhancements and upgrades. When we encountered difficulties in the past, our customer relationships and our ability to generate additional revenue from customers were harmed. Our inability to meet the demands of customers would severely damage our reputation, which would make it more difficult for us to sell test equipment, enhancements and services to existing, as well as new, customers and would adversely affect our ability to generate revenue. In addition, we face significant obstacles in establishing new customer relationships. It is difficult for us to establish relationships with new customers because such companies may have existing relationships with our competitors, may be unfamiliar with our product and service offerings, may have an installed base of test equipment sufficient for their current needs or may not have the resources necessary to transition to, and train their employees on, our test equipment. Even if we do succeed in establishing new relationships, these new customers may nonetheless continue to favor our competitors, as our competitors may have had longer relationships with these customers or may maintain a larger installed base of their competing test equipment in the facilities of new customers and only purchase limited quantities from us. In addition, we could face difficulties in our efforts to develop new customer relationships abroad as a result of buying practices that may favor local competitors or non-local competitors with a larger presence in local economies than we have. As a result, we may be forced to partner with local companies in order to compete for business and such arrangements, if available, may not be achieved on economically favorable terms, which could negatively affect our financial performance. 24 Table of Contents Failure to accurately estimate our customers' demand and plan the production of our new and existing products could adversely affect our inventory levels and our income. Given the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, we cannot reliably forecast the timing and size of our customers' orders. In order to meet anticipated demand, we must order components and build some inventory before we actually receive purchase orders, which includes inventory at our contract manufacturers and suppliers where we have non-cancelable purchase commitments. Our results could be harmed if we do not accurately estimate our customers' product demands and are unable to adjust our purchases with market fluctuations, including those caused by the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry. During a market upturn, our results could be materially and adversely affected if we cannot increase our purchases of components, parts and services quickly enough to meet increasing demand for our products. During a market downturn, we could have excess inventory that we would not be able to sell, resulting in inventory write-downs. For the year ended October 31, 2008, we recorded net excess and obsolete inventory charges of $27 million, of which $16 million related to our memory test business as a result of the sharp downturn in the memory market that occurred in fiscal year 2008. Having insufficient or excess inventory could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, if we do not successfully manage the introduction of our new products and estimate customer demand for such products, our ability to sell existing inventory may be adversely affected. If demand for our new products exceeds our projections, we might have insufficient quantities of products for sale to our customers, which could cause us to miss opportunities to increase revenues during market upturns. If our projections exceed demand for our new products or if some of our customers cancel their current orders for our old products in anticipation of our new products, we may have excess inventories of our new products and excess obsolete inventories, which could result in material future inventory write-downs that would adversely affect our financial performance. Existing customers may be unwilling to bear expenses associated with transitioning to new and enhanced products. In order to grow our business, we need to sell new and enhanced products. Certain customers may be unwilling, or unable, to bear the costs of implementing new test equipment platforms or enhancements, particularly during semiconductor industry downturns. As a result, it may be difficult to market and sell these products and customers may continue to buy upgrades to older existing product lines which may be a lower cost alternative. As we introduce new test equipment and enhancements, we cannot predict with certainty when or if our customers will transition to those new product platforms. Any delay in or failure of our customers to transition to new products and enhancements could result in excess inventories, which could result in inventory write-downs that would adversely affect our financial performance. If we do not introduce new test equipment platforms and upgrade existing test equipment platforms in a timely manner, and if we do not offer comprehensive and competitive services for our test equipment platforms, our test equipment and services will become obsolete, we will lose existing customers and our operating results will suffer. The semiconductor design and manufacturing industry into which we sell our test equipment is characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product introductions, including upgrades to existing test equipment, and evolving industry standards. The success of our new or upgraded test equipment offerings will depend on several factors, including our ability to: •properly identify customer needs and anticipate technological advances and industry trends, such as the disaggregation of the traditional IDM semiconductor supply chain into fabless design companies, foundries and packaging, assembly and test providers; 25 Table of Contents •develop and commercialize new and enhanced technologies and applications that meet our customers' evolving performance requirements in a timely manner; •develop and deliver enhancements and related services for our current test equipment that are capable of satisfying our customers' specific test requirements; and •introduce and promote market acceptance of new test equipment platforms, such as our V6000 Series system for memory testing. In many cases, our test equipment and services are used by our customers to develop, test and manufacture their new products. We therefore must anticipate industry trends and develop new test equipment platforms or upgrade existing test equipment platforms in advance of the commercialization of our customers' products. In addition, new methods of testing integrated circuits, such as self-testing integrated circuits, may be developed which would render our test equipment uncompetitive or obsolete if we failed to adopt and incorporate these new methods into our new or existing test equipment platforms. Developing new test equipment platforms and upgrading existing test equipment platforms requires a substantial investment before we can determine the commercial viability of the new or upgraded platform. As our customers' product requirements are diverse and subject to frequent change, we also need to ensure that we have an adequate mix of products that meet our customers' varying requirements. If we fail to adequately predict our customers' needs and technological advances, we may invest heavily in research and development of test equipment that does not lead to significant revenue, or we may fail to invest in technology necessary to meet changing customer demands. Without the timely introduction of new or upgraded test equipment that reflects technological advances, our test equipment and services would likely become obsolete, we may have difficulty retaining customers and our revenue and operating results would suffer. Our long and variable sales cycle depends upon factors outside of our control and we may expend significant time and resources prior to our ever earning associated revenues. Sales of our semiconductor test equipment and services depend in significant part upon semiconductor designers and manufacturers upgrading existing manufacturing equipment to accommodate the requirements of new semiconductor devices and expanding existing, and adding new, manufacturing facilities. As a result, our sales are subject to a variety of factors we cannot control, including: •the complexity of our customers' fabrication processes, which impacts the number of our test systems and amount of our product enhancements and upgrades our customers require; •the willingness of our customers to adopt new or upgraded test equipment platforms; •the internal technical capabilities and sophistication of our customers, which impacts their need for our test services; and •the capital expenditures of our customers. The decision to purchase our equipment and services generally involves a significant commitment of capital. As a result, our test equipment has lengthy and variable sales cycles during which we may expend substantial funds and management effort to secure a sale prior to receiving any commitment from a customer to purchase our test equipment or services. Prior to completing sales to our customers, we are often subject to a number of significant risks, including the risk that our competitors may compete for the sale or that the customer may change its technological requirements. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by our long and variable sales cycle and the uncertainty associated with expending substantial funds and effort with no guarantee that sales will be made. 26 Table of Contents We face substantial competition which, among other things, may lead to price pressure and adversely affect our sales and revenue. We face substantial competition throughout the world in each of our product areas. Our most significant competitors historically have included Advantest Corporation, LTX-Credence Corporation, Teradyne, Inc. and Yokogawa Electric Corporation. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources, broader product offerings, more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing and customer support capabilities or a greater presence in certain countries than we do. We may have less leverage with component vendors than some of our competitors. Also, some of our competitors have greater resources and may be more willing or able than we are to put capital at risk to win business. Price reductions by our competitors may force us to lower our prices. We also expect our current competitors to continue to improve the performance of their current products and to introduce new products, technologies or services that could adversely affect sales of our current and future test equipment and services. Additionally, current and future competitors may introduce testing technologies, equipment and services, which may in turn reduce the value of our own test equipment and services. Any of these circumstances may limit our opportunities for growth and negatively impact our financial performance. Test systems that contain defects that harm our customers could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers and revenue. Our test equipment is highly complex and employs advanced technologies. The use of complex technology in our test equipment increases the likelihood that we could experience design, performance or manufacturing problems. If any of our products have defects or reliability or quality problems, we may, in some circumstances, be exposed to liability, our reputation could be damaged significantly and customers might be reluctant to buy our products, which could result in a decline in revenues, an increase in product returns and the loss of existing customers and the failure to attract new customers. We may face competition from Agilent in the future. Pursuant to the intellectual property matters agreement between us and Agilent that was entered into in connection with our separation from Agilent, except as described below, until October 31, 2009, Agilent agreed not to develop, manufacture, distribute, support or service automated semiconductor test systems for providing high-volume functional test of integrated circuits ("ICs") (including memory and high-speed memory devices and SOCs) or SIPs, or components for automated semiconductor test systems. However, this agreement does not prevent Agilent from developing, manufacturing, supporting or servicing, and Agilent may compete with us with respect to: •products (other than automated semiconductor test systems for high-volume functional test) for providing functional test of ICs or SIPs, whether or not including parametric test (the testing of selected parameters of a device or group of devices to identify errors or flaws), design verification or engineering characterization capabilities; •automated semiconductor test development systems (including hardware and software) that are intended to enable development of test programs and protocols for use in high-volume functional test of ICs or SIPs, whether or not such development test systems themselves are capable of performing such high-volume functional test; and •products (other than automated semiconductor test systems for high-volume functional test) for providing parametric test, design verification, engineering characterization or functional test of: (i) wireless communications devices, such as cellular telephones or wireless networking products, whether in packaged device or module form, and whether or not implemented as an IC or SIP; (ii) modules (such as RF front-end modules) containing one or more ICs connected with other active or passive devices; and (iii) RF and higher frequency (e.g., microwave and optical) devices 27 Table of Contents and components such as oscillators, mixers, amplifiers and 3-port devices, to the extent that such devices or components are in the form of an IC or SIP. In addition, the intellectual property matters agreement permits Agilent to fulfill its obligations under contracts in existence as of March 1, 2006, even though fulfilling such obligations would otherwise have been precluded during the non-competition period and even if fulfilling such obligations would result in Agilent competing with us. This exception allows Agilent to fulfill its obligations to a semiconductor manufacturer pursuant to which Agilent develops and sells components to the manufacturer for use in the manufacturer's semiconductor test systems purchased from a competitor of Verigy. While we do not believe that Agilent's fulfillment of these obligations will have a material effect on our business or prospects, we may in the future be less successful at selling test systems to this semiconductor manufacturer than would have been the case were the manufacturer not able to combine products from Agilent with the test systems of our competitor. Although, under the intellectual property matters agreement, Agilent transferred all of the intellectual property rights Agilent held that relate exclusively to our products to us, Agilent retained and only licensed to us the intellectual property rights to underlying technologies used in both our products and the products of Agilent. Under the agreement, Agilent remains free to use the retained underlying technologies without restriction (other than as described above with respect to the three-year non-compete period). After October 31, 2009, Agilent will be free to compete with any portion or all of our business without restriction, and in doing so will be free to use the retained underlying technologies. Agilent will not be permitted to use the intellectual property rights transferred to us, and licensed from us back to Agilent, to compete with us with respect to our core business of developing, manufacturing, selling and supporting automated semiconductor test systems. Agilent will, however, be able to use such intellectual property rights to develop and sell components for such systems, including systems developed and sold by us as well as those developed and sold by our competitors. While selling components has not represented a material portion of our business in the past and is not expected to be an area of focus for the near future, our business could be adversely affected if systems offered by our competitors become more competitive as a result of Agilent supplying components for our competitors' systems or if, by buying components from Agilent, our customers are able to delay or bypass altogether purchasing newer systems from us. While none of the product types for which Agilent reserved the right to compete with us has provided material revenue to us in the past, competition from Agilent during or after the non-compete period described above or other actions taken by Agilent that create real or perceived competition with us, could harm our business and operating results. Third parties may compete with us by using intellectual property that Agilent licensed to us under the intellectual property matters agreement. Under the intellectual property matters agreement, Agilent retained and only licensed to us the intellectual property rights to underlying technologies used in both our products and the products of Agilent. Under the agreement, Agilent remains free to license the intellectual property rights to the underlying technologies to any party, including our competitors. Any unaffiliated third party that is licensed to use such retained intellectual property would not be subject to the non-competition provisions of the intellectual property matters agreement and could compete with us at any time using the underlying technologies. The intellectual property that Agilent retained and that can be licensed in this manner does not relate solely or primarily to one or more of our products, or groups of products, rather, the intellectual property that Agilent licensed to us is generally used broadly across our entire product portfolio. Competition by third parties using the underlying technologies retained by Agilent could harm our business and operating results. 28 Table of Contents Third parties may claim we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling our products or services. Our industry has been and continues to be characterized by uncertain and conflicting intellectual property claims and vigorous protection and pursuit of these rights. As a result, third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, and we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology, products and services. Any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming, and divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. Claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. However, we may not be able to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain of our products and services. Third parties may infringe our intellectual property, and we may expend significant resources enforcing our rights or suffer competitive injury. Our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our operating results. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights and there can be no assurance that, even with significant expenditures, we will be able to protect our intellectual property rights. In addition, our agreements with Agilent, and in particular the intellectual property matters agreement, set forth the terms and provisions under which we received the intellectual property rights necessary to operate our business. Under our agreements with Agilent, we do not have the right to enforce against third parties intellectual property rights we license from Agilent, and Agilent is under no obligation to enforce such rights on our behalf. Intellectual property rights are difficult to enforce in certain countries, which may inhibit our ability to protect our intellectual property rights or those of our suppliers and customers in those countries. The laws of some countries do not offer the same level of protection of our proprietary rights as the laws of the United States, and we may be subject to unauthorized use of our products or technologies in those countries, particularly in Asia, where we expect our business to continue to expand in the foreseeable future. Consequently, we cannot assure you that we will be able to protect our intellectual property rights or have adequate legal recourse in the event that we encounter difficulties with infringements of intellectual property under local law. We may incur a variety of costs to engage in future acquisitions of companies, products or technologies, and the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions we may make may never be realized. •difficulties in assimilating the operations and personnel of acquired companies; •diversion of our management's attention from ongoing business concerns; •our potential inability to maximize our financial and strategic position through the successful incorporation of acquired technology and rights into our products and services; •additional expense associated with amortization of acquired assets; 29 Table of Contents •difficulty in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; •impairment of existing relationships with employees, suppliers and customers as a result of the integration of new management personnel; •dilution to our shareholders in the event we issue shares as consideration to finance an acquisition; •difficulty integrating and implementing the accounting controls necessary to comply with regulatory requirements such as Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; and •increased leverage, if we incur debt to finance an acquisition. We may acquire, or make significant or minority investments in, complementary businesses, products or technologies. Any future acquisitions or investments could be accompanied by risks such as: We cannot guarantee that we will realize any benefit from the integration of any business, products or technologies that we might acquire in the future, and our failure to do so could harm our business. Our executive officers and certain key personnel are critical to our business. Our future operating results will depend substantially upon the performance of our executive officers and key personnel. Our future operating results also depend in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, manufacturing, technical, application engineering, marketing, sales and support personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we cannot ensure success in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. Our business is particularly dependent on expertise which only a very limited number of engineers possess and it may be increasingly difficult for us to hire personnel over time. We operate in several geographic locations, including parts of Asia and Silicon Valley, where the labor markets, especially for application engineers, are particularly competitive. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the loss of any of our key employees, by the failure of any key employee to perform in his or her current position, or by our inability to attract and retain skilled employees, particularly engineers. Funds associated with certain of our auction rate securities may not be accessible for in excess of 12 months and our auction rate securities may experience an other-than-temporary decline in value, which would adversely affect our income. As of October 31, 2008, all of our auction rate securities experienced failed auctions. The funds associated with these auctions will not be accessible to us until a successful auction occurs, a buyer is found outside of the auction process, or the underlying securities have matured or are called by the issuer. Given the ongoing disruptions in the credit markets and the fact that the liquidity for these types of securities remains uncertain, we have classified all of our auction rate securities as long-term assets in our consolidated balance sheet as of October 31, 2008, as our ability to liquidate such securities in the next 12 months is uncertain. Our auction rate securities primarily consist of investments that are backed by pools of student loans guaranteed by the U.S. Department of Education and other asset-backed securities. Our marketable securities portfolio as of October 31, 2008 has a carrying value of $368 million, of which approximately $71 million consists of illiquid auction rate securities. Given the ongoing disruption in the market for auction rate securities, there is no longer an actively quoted market price for these securities. Accordingly, we utilized a model to estimate the fair value of these auction rate securities based on, among other items: (i) the underlying structure of each security and the underlying collateral quality; (ii) the present value of future principal and interest payments discounted at rates considered to reflect current market conditions; (iii) consideration of the probabilities of default, auction failure, or 30 Table of Contents repurchase at par for each period; and (iv) estimates of the recovery rates in the event of default for each security. These estimated fair values could change significantly based on future market conditions. We evaluate our investments periodically for possible other-than-temporary impairment by reviewing factors such as the length of time and extent to which fair value has been below cost basis, the financial condition of the issuer and insurance guarantor, and our ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient for anticipated recovery of market value. Based on an analysis of other-than-temporary impairment factors, at October 31, 2008, we have recorded an other-than-temporary impairment within the statement of operations for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2008 of $17.4 million (of which $15.9 million was recorded during our fourth quarter) related to a number of our auction rate securities. We have also recorded a temporary impairment within accumulated other comprehensive loss for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2008 of approximately $1.6 million (net of tax of $0.2 million) primarily for our auction rate securities that are backed by pools of student loans guaranteed by the U.S. Department of Education. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our investments in equity interests become impaired. We are required under generally accepted accounting principles to review our equity interests for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of an investment in equity interest may not be recoverable include a decline in the operating performance of an equity investee if a private company. In the past we have made, and in the future may make, significant or minority equity investments in complementary businesses, products or technologies. If the operating performance of the companies in which we make equity investments declines, we may be required to record a charge, which may be significant, to earnings in our consolidated financial statements during the period in which impairment of our investments in equity interests is determined. This could adversely impact our results of operations. During fiscal year 2008, we recorded an impairment charge of $11.1 million for one of our equity investments. As of October 31, 2008, we had approximately $6 million of investments in equity interests on our consolidated balance sheet. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill becomes impaired. We are required under generally accepted accounting principles to test goodwill for possible impairment on an annual basis and at any other time that circumstances arise indicating the carrying value may not be recoverable. At October 31, 2008, we had $18 million of goodwill. We completed our annual test of goodwill impairment in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year and concluded that we did not have any impairment for fiscal year 2008. However, if we continue to see deterioration in the global economy and the current market conditions in the semiconductor industry worsen, the carrying amount of our goodwill may no longer be recoverable, and we may be required to record a material impairment charge, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. Our effective tax rate may vary significantly from period to period, and we could owe significant taxes even during periods when we experience low operating profit or operating losses. We have negotiated tax incentives with the Singapore Economic Development Board, an agency of the Government of Singapore, which have been approved by Singapore's Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Trade and Industry. Under the incentives, a portion of the income we earn in Singapore during these ten to fifteen year incentive periods is subject to reduced rates of Singapore income tax. Some incentive tax rates could begin to expire beginning in fiscal year 2011 if certain requirements are not met. The Singapore corporate income tax rate that would apply, absent the incentives, is 18% for both fiscal years 2008 and 2007. Without these incentives, our income taxes would have been higher by 31 Table of Contents $4 million or $0.07 per share (diluted) and $18 million or $0.30 per share (diluted) in fiscal years 2008 and 2007, respectively. In order to receive the benefit of the incentives, we must develop and maintain in Singapore certain functions such as procurement, financial services, order management, credit and collections, spare parts depot and distribution center, a refurbishment center and regional activities like an application development center. In addition to these qualifying activities, we must hire specified numbers of employees and maintain minimum levels of investment in Singapore. We have from two to nine years to phase-in the qualifying activities and to hire the specified numbers of employees. If we do not fulfill these conditions for any reason, our incentive could lapse, our income in Singapore would be subject to taxation at higher rates, and our overall effective tax rate could be between ten to twenty percentage points higher than would have been the case had we maintained the benefit of the incentives. In addition, our effective tax rate may vary significantly from period to period because, for example, we may owe significant taxes in jurisdictions other than Singapore during periods when we are profitable in those jurisdictions even though we may be experiencing low operating profit or operating losses on a consolidated basis. Our effective tax rate varies based on a variety of factors, including overall profitability, the geographical mix of income before taxes and the related tax rates in the jurisdictions where we operate, as well as discrete events, such as settlements of future audits. Certain combinations of these factors could cause us to owe significant taxes even during periods when we experience low income before taxes or loss before taxes. We sell our products and services worldwide, and our business is subject to risks inherent in conducting business activities in geographies outside of the United States. Our headquarters are in Singapore, our manufacturing of final assembly and test is outsourced largely to Flextronics, and we sell our products and services worldwide. As a result, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Revenue from customers in Asia-Pacific (including Japan) accounted for approximately 77.2%, 66.6% and 62.2% for the fiscal years ended October 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The economies of Asia have been highly volatile and recessionary in the past, resulting in significant fluctuations in local currencies. Our exposure to the business risks presented by the economies of Asia will increase to the extent that we continue to expand our operations in that region, including continuing to transition our volume contract manufacturing processes to Flextronics in China. Our international activities subjects us to a number of risks associated with conducting operations internationally, including: •difficulties in managing geographically disparate operations; •potential greater difficulty and longer time in collecting accounts receivable from customers located abroad; •difficulties in enforcing agreements through non-U.S. legal systems; •unexpected changes in regulatory requirements that may limit our ability to export our software or sell into particular jurisdictions or impose multiple conflicting tax laws and regulations; •political and economic instability, civil unrest or war; •terrorist activities and health risks such as "bird flu' and SARS that impact international commerce and travel; •difficulties in protecting our intellectual property rights, particularly in countries where the laws and practices do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws and practices of the United States; 32 Table of Contents •changing laws and policies affecting economic liberalization, foreign investment, currency convertibility or exchange rates, taxation or employment; and •nationalization of foreign owned assets, including intellectual property. In addition, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange movements versus the U.S. dollar, particularly the Euro and the Japanese Yen. With respect to revenue, our primary exposure exists during the period between execution of a purchase order denominated in a foreign currency and collection of the related receivable. During this period, changes in the exchange rates of the foreign currency to the U.S. dollar will affect our revenue, cost of sales and operating margins and could result in exchange gains or losses. While a significant portion of our purchase orders to date have been denominated in U.S. dollars, competitive conditions may require us to enter into an increasing number of purchase orders denominated in foreign currencies. We incur a variety of costs in foreign currencies, including some of our manufacturing costs, component costs and sales costs. Therefore, as we expand our operations in Asia, we may become more exposed to a strengthening of currencies in the region against the U.S. dollar. We cannot assure you that any hedging transactions we may enter into will be effective or will not result in foreign exchange hedging gains or losses. As a result, we are exposed to greater risks in currency fluctuations. If our facilities or the facilities of our contract manufacturers were to experience catastrophic loss due to natural disasters, our operations would be seriously harmed. Our facilities and the facilities of our contract manufacturers could be subject to a catastrophic loss caused by natural disasters, including fires and earthquakes. We and our contract manufacturers have significant facilities in areas with above average seismic activity, such as California, Japan and Taiwan. If any of these facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production and shipments, reduce revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. We do not carry catastrophic insurance policies that cover potential losses caused by earthquakes. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Ordinary Shares. At times, our stock price has fluctuated significantly, and such fluctuations in the future could result in substantial losses for our investors. The trading price of our ordinary shares has at times fluctuated significantly. For example, during fiscal year 2008, the trading price of our ordinary shares ranged from a low of $13.06 to a high of $27.17. Fluctuations have occurred and may continue to occur in response to various factors, many of which we cannot control, including: •general economic and political conditions and specific conditions in the semiconductor industry; •changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates or publication of research reports by securities analysts; •strategic moves by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; •announcements of new products or technical innovations by us or our competitors; •actions by institutional shareholders; and •speculation in the press or investment community. Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your ordinary shares at or above the price you paid. 33 Table of Contents We may become involved in securities litigation that could divert management's attention and harm our business. The stock market in general, and The NASDAQ Global Select Market and the securities of semiconductor capital equipment companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. Further, the market prices of securities of semiconductor test system companies have been particularly volatile. These market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Such litigation, whether or not meritorious, could result in the expenditure of substantial funds, divert management's attention and resources, and harm our reputation in the industry and the securities markets, which would reduce our profitability and harm our business. It may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States on us or to enforce civil liabilities under the U.S. federal securities laws of the United States against us. We are incorporated in Singapore. Some of our officers and directors reside outside the United States. A substantial portion of our assets is located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us. Similarly, investors may be unable to enforce judgments obtained in U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States against us in U.S. courts. Judgments of U.S. courts based upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States are not directly enforceable in Singapore courts and are not given the same effect in Singapore as judgments of a Singapore court. Accordingly, there can be no assurance as to whether Singapore courts will enter judgments in actions brought in Singapore courts based upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 