Item 1A. Risk Factors If any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Natural gas prices are volatile, and a decline primarily in natural gas prices would significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. Our revenue, profitability, and cash flow depend upon the prices and demand for natural gas. The market for natural gas is very volatile and even relatively modest drops in prices can significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. Changes in natural gas prices have a significant impact on the value of our reserves and on our cash flow. Prices for natural gas may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, such as: • the domestic and foreign supply of natural gas; • the price of foreign imports; • overall domestic and global economic conditions; • the consumption pattern of industrial consumers, electricity generators, and residential users; 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • weather conditions; • technological advances affecting energy consumption; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations; • proximity and capacity of gas pipelines and other transportation facilities; and • the price and availability of alternative fuels. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Because all of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2007 were natural gas reserves, our financial results are sensitive to movements in natural gas prices. Earlier in this decade, natural gas prices were much lower than they are today. Lower natural gas prices may not only decrease our revenues on a per Mcf basis, but also may reduce the amount of natural gas that we can produce economically. This may result in our having to make substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. If this occurs or if our estimates of development costs increase, production data factors change or our exploration results deteriorate, accounting rules may require us to write down, as a non-cash charge to earnings, the carrying value of our properties for impairments. We are required to perform impairment tests on our assets whenever events or changes in circumstances lead to a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows that would indicate that the carry amount may not be recoverable or whenever management’s plans change with respect to those assets. We may incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period taken. We face uncertainties in estimating proved gas reserves, and inaccuracies in our estimates could result in lower than expected reserve quantities and a lower present value of our reserves. Natural gas reserve engineering requires subjective estimates of underground accumulations of natural gas and assumptions concerning future natural gas prices, production levels, and operating and development costs. In addition, in the early stages of a coalbed methane project, it is difficult to predict the production curve of a coalbed methane field. The estimated production profile of a field in the early stage of operations may vary significantly from the actual production profile as the field matures. As a result, quantities of estimated proved reserves, projections of future production rates, and the timing of development expenditures may be incorrect. Over time, material changes to reserve estimates may be made, taking into account the results of actual drilling, testing, and production. Also, we make certain assumptions regarding future natural gas prices, production levels, and operating and development costs that may prove incorrect. Any significant variance from these assumptions to actual figures could greatly affect our estimates of our reserves, the economically recoverable quantities of natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, the classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery, and estimates of the future net cash flows. Numerous changes over time to the assumptions on which our reserve estimates are based, as described above, often result in the actual quantities of gas we ultimately recover being different from reserve estimates. The present value of future net cash flows from our estimated proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated natural gas reserves. We base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our estimated proved reserves on current prices and costs. However, actual future net cash flows from our gas properties also will be affected by factors such as: • geological conditions; • changes in governmental regulations and taxation; • assumptions governing future prices; • the amount and timing of actual production; • future gas prices and operating costs; and • capital costs of drilling new wells. 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from estimated proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the natural gas industry in general. Unless we replace our natural gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Producing natural gas reservoirs are typically characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. CBM production generally declines at a shallow rate after initial increases in production which result as a consequence of the dewatering process. The rate of decline from our existing wells may change in a manner different than we have estimated. Thus, our future natural gas reserves and production and, therefore, our cash flow and income are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, find, or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production at acceptable costs. Currently the vast majority of our producing properties are located in two counties in Alabama, one county in West Virginia, and one county in Virginia, making us vulnerable to risks associated with having our production concentrated in a few areas. The vast majority of our producing properties are geographically concentrated in two counties in Alabama, one county in West Virginia, and one county in Virginia. As a result of this concentration, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of delays or interruptions of production from these wells caused by significant governmental regulation, transportation capacity constraints, curtailment of production, natural disasters, interruption of transportation of natural gas produced from the wells in these basins, or other events which impact these areas. Our ability to sell the gas we produce depends in substantial part on the availability and capacity of pipeline systems owned and operated by third parties. Operational impediments on these pipeline systems may hinder our access to natural gas markets or delay our production. The availability of a ready market for our natural gas production depends on a number of factors, including the proximity of our reserves to pipelines, capacity constraints on pipelines, and disruption of transportation of natural gas through pipelines. We transport the natural gas we produce principally through pipelines owned by third parties. If we cannot access these third-party pipelines, or if transportation of gas through any of these pipelines is disrupted, we may be required to shut in or curtail production from some of our wells or seek alternate methods of transportation of our production. If any of these were to occur, our revenues would be reduced, which would in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to obtain adequate acreage to develop additional large-scale projects. To achieve economies of scale and produce gas economically, we need to acquire large acreage positions to reduce our per unit costs. There are a limited number of coalbed formations in North America that we believe are favorable for CBM development. We face competition when acquiring additional acreage, and we may be unable to find or acquire additional acreage at prices that are acceptable to us. Our exploration and development activities may not be commercially successful. The exploration for and production of natural gas involves numerous high risks. The cost of drilling, completing, and operating wells for coalbed methane or other gas is often uncertain, and a number of factors can delay or prevent drilling operations or production, including: • unexpected drilling conditions; 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • title problems; • pressure or irregularities in geologic formations; • equipment failures or repairs; • fires or other accidents; • adverse weather conditions; • reductions in natural gas prices; • pipeline ruptures; • legal issues; and • unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, other field services, and equipment. Our future drilling activities may not be successful, and our drilling success rates could decline. Unsuccessful drilling activities could result in higher costs without any corresponding reserves and revenues. We will require additional capital to fund our future activities. If we fail to obtain additional capital, we may not be able to implement fully our business plan, which could lead to a decline in reserves. We depend on our ability to obtain financing beyond our cash flow from operations. Historically, we have financed our business plan and operations primarily with internally generated cash flow, bank borrowings, and issuances of common stock. If our revenues decrease as a result of lower natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. We may, from time to time, need to seek additional financing. Our revolving credit facility contains covenants restricting our ability to incur additional indebtedness without the consent of the lender. There can be no assurance that our lender will provide this consent or as to the availability or terms of any additional financing. If we incur additional debt, the related risks that we now face could intensify. A higher level of debt also increases the risk that we may default on our debt obligations. Our level of debt affects our operations in several important ways, including the following: • a portion of our cash flow from operations is used to pay interest on borrowings; • a high level of debt may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes; • a leveraged financial position would make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and could limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures; and • any debt that we incur under our revolving credit facility will be at variable rates which makes us vulnerable to increases in interest rates. Even if additional capital is needed, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. If cash generated by operations or available under our revolving credit facility is not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to exploration and development of our projects, which in turn could lead to a possible loss of properties and a decline in our natural gas reserves. Our revolving credit facility contains a number of financial and other covenants, and our obligations under the revolving credit facility are secured by substantially all of our assets. If we are unable to comply with these covenants, our lenders could accelerate the repayment of our indebtedness. Our revolving credit facility subjects us to a number of covenants that impose restrictions on us, including our ability to incur indebtedness and liens, make loans and investments, sell assets, engage in mergers, 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements consolidations and acquisitions, enter into transactions with affiliates, or pay dividends. We are also required by the terms of our revolving credit facility to comply with certain financial ratios. Our revolving credit facility also provides for periodic redeterminations of our borrowing base, which may affect our borrowing capacity. Our revolving credit facility is secured by a lien on substantially all of our assets, including equity interests in our subsidiaries. A more detailed description of our revolving credit facility is included in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” and the footnotes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. A breach of any of the covenants imposed on us by the terms of our revolving credit facility, including the financial covenants, could result in a default under such indebtedness. In the event of a default, the lenders could terminate their commitments to us, and they could accelerate the repayment of all of our indebtedness. In such case, we may not have sufficient funds to pay the total amount of accelerated obligations, and our lenders could proceed against the collateral securing the revolving credit facility. Any acceleration in the repayment of our indebtedness or related foreclosure could adversely affect our business. In addition, the borrowing base under our revolving credit facility is redetermined semi-annually and may be redetermined at other times upon request by the lenders under certain circumstances. Redeterminations are based upon a number of factors, including commodity prices and reserve levels. We operate in a highly competitive environment and many of our competitors have greater resources than we do. The gas industry is intensely competitive and we compete with companies from various regions of the United States and Canada and may compete with foreign suppliers for domestic sales, many of whom are larger and have greater financial, technological, human and other resources. If we are unable to compete, our operating results and financial position may be adversely affected. For example, one of our competitive strengths is as a low-cost producer of gas. If our competitors can produce gas at a lower cost than us, it would effectively eliminate our competitive advantage in that area. In addition, larger companies may be able to pay more to acquire new properties for future exploration, limiting our ability to replace gas we produce or to grow our production. Our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover new reserves also depends on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate these transactions in a highly competitive environment. Our ability to produce coalbed methane may be hampered by the water present in the formation which could affect our profitability. Unlike conventional natural gas production, coalbeds frequently contain brine water that must be removed in order for the gas to desorb from the coal and flow to the well bore. Our ability to remove and dispose of sufficient quantities of water from the coal seam will determine whether or not we can produce gas in commercial quantities. The cost of water disposal may affect our profitability. We may face unanticipated water disposal costs. Where water produced from our projects fails to meet the quality requirements of applicable regulatory agencies or our wells produce water in excess of the applicable volumetric permit limit, we may have to shut in wells, reduce drilling activities, or upgrade facilities. The costs to dispose of this produced water may increase if any of the following occur: • we cannot obtain future permits from applicable regulatory agencies; • water of lesser quality is produced; • our wells produce excess water; or • new laws and regulations require water to be disposed of in a different manner. 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Obtaining production from our additional drilling locations could take five years or longer, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could alter the occurrence of their drilling. The additional drilling locations on our existing acreage represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and produce these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including, but not limited to, natural gas prices, permitting and the availability of capital. Furthermore, the additional drilling locations on acreage in our two early-stage CBM development projects and our Chattanooga Shale exploration prospect face additional uncertainties regarding the economic returns achievable in these areas where only a few wells have been drilled to date. Our operations in British Columbia present unique risks and uncertainties, different from or in addition to those we face in our domestic operations. We conduct our operations in British Columbia through our wholly owned subsidiary, Hudson’s Hope Gas Ltd. Our operations in British Columbia may be adversely affected by currency fluctuations. The expenses of such operations are payable in Canadian dollars. As a result, our Canadian operations are subject to risk of fluctuations in the relative value of the Canadian and United States dollars. Other risks of operations in Canada include, among other things, increases in taxes and governmental royalties and changes in laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies. Laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade and taxation may also adversely affect our operations in British Columbia. We may be unable to retain our existing senior management team and/or our key personnel that have expertise in coalbed methane extraction and our failure to continue to attract qualified new personnel could adversely affect our business. Our business requires disciplined execution at all levels of our organization to ensure that we continually develop our reserves and produce gas at profitable levels. This execution requires an experienced and talented management and production team. If we were to lose the benefit of the experience, efforts and abilities of any of our key executives or the members of our team that have developed substantial expertise in coalbed methane extraction, our business could be adversely affected. We have not entered into employment agreements or non-competition agreements with any of our key employees, other than J. Darby Seré, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and William C. Rankin, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our personnel. Our ability to manage our growth, if any, will require us to continue to train, motivate, and manage our employees and to attract, motivate, and retain additional qualified managerial and production personnel. Competition for these types of personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting, assimilating, and retaining the personnel required to grow and operate our business profitably. Government laws, regulations, and other legal requirements relating to protection of the environment, health and safety matters and others that govern our business increase our costs and may restrict our operations. We are subject to laws, regulations and other legal requirements enacted or adopted by federal, state, local, and foreign authorities, relating to protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those legal requirements that govern discharges of substances into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the clean-up of contaminated sites, groundwater quality and availability, plant and wildlife protection, reclamation and restoration of mining or drilling properties after mining or drilling is completed, control of surface subsidence from underground mining, and work practices related to employee health and safety. Complying with these requirements, including the terms of our permits, has had, and will continue to have, a significant effect on our respective costs of operations and competitive position. In addition, we could incur substantial costs, including clean-up costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, and third party damage claims for personal injury, property damage, wrongful death, or exposure to hazardous substances, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental and health and safety laws. 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Additionally, the gas industry is subject to extensive legislation and regulation, which is under constant review for amendment or expansion. Any changes may affect, among other things, the pricing of production. State and local authorities regulate various aspects of gas drilling and production activities, including the drilling of wells (through permit and bonding requirements), the spacing of wells, the unitization or pooling of gas properties, environmental matters, safety standards, market sharing, and well site restoration. If we fail to comply with statutes and regulations, we may be subject to substantial penalties, which would decrease our profitability. We must obtain governmental permits and approvals for drilling operations, which can be a costly and time consuming process and result in restrictions on our operations. Regulatory authorities exercise considerable discretion in the timing and scope of permit issuance. Requirements imposed by these authorities may be costly and time consuming and may result in delays in the commencement or continuation of our exploration or production operations. For example, we are often required to prepare and present to federal, state or local authorities data pertaining to the effect or impact that proposed exploration for or production of gas may have on the environment. Further, the public may comment on and otherwise engage in the permitting process, including through intervention in the courts. In some cases, consents from third parties may be required before a permit is issued. Accordingly, the permits we need may not be issued, or if issued, may not be issued in a timely fashion, or may involve requirements that restrict our ability to conduct our operations or to do so profitably. We depend on technology owned by others. We rely on the technological expertise of the independent contractors that we retain for our operations. We have no long-term agreements with these contractors, and thus we cannot be sure that we will continue to have access to this expertise. We may incur additional costs to produce gas because our confirmation of title for gas rights for some of our properties may be inadequate or incomplete. We generally obtain title opinions on significant properties that we drill or acquire. However, we cannot be sure that we will not suffer a monetary loss from title defects or failure. In addition, the steps needed to perfect our ownership varies from state to state and some states permit us to produce the gas without perfected ownership under forced pooling arrangements while other states do not permit this. As a result, we may have to incur title costs and pay royalties to produce gas on acreage that we control and these costs may be material and vary depending upon the state in which we operate. The availability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel, and oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget. Our industry is cyclical, and from time to time there is a shortage of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or qualified personnel. During these periods, the costs and delivery times of rigs, equipment, and supplies are substantially greater. As a result of historically strong prices of gas, the demand for oilfield services has risen, and the costs of these services are increasing. If the availability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, or qualified personnel were particularly severe in the areas where we operate, we could be materially and adversely affected. Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains. In order to manage our interest rate exposure and commodity price risks, we have entered into interest rate swaps and natural gas price hedging arrangements with respect to a portion of our expected production. We will most likely enter into additional hedging transactions in the future. While intended to reduce the effects of volatile interest rates and natural gas prices, such transactions may limit our potential gains or increase our potential losses. 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We do not insure against all potential risks. We may incur substantial losses and be subject to substantial liability claims as a result of our natural gas operations. We maintain insurance for some, but not all, of the potential risks and liabilities associated with our business. For some risks, we may not obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially, and in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. As a result, we may not be able to renew our existing insurance policies or procure other desirable insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Although we maintain insurance at levels we believe are appropriate and consistent with industry practice, we are not fully insured against all risks, including drilling and completion risks that are generally not recoverable from third parties or insurance. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Losses and liabilities from uninsured and underinsured events and delay in the payment of insurance proceeds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 