Risk Factors.” Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Also, forward-looking statements represent our management’s beliefs and assumptions only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should read this Annual Report on Form 10-K completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements publicly, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview We design, build and implement systems for the treatment of contaminated groundwater. We have developed a proprietary, ion-exchange treatment system that reduces groundwater contaminant levels in what we believe is a more efficient, flexible and cost-effective manner than competing solutions. We market our system to utilities, cities, municipalities, special districts, real estate developers and other organizations that supply water, collectively referred to as water providers, for use in treating groundwater sources that do not comply with federal or state regulations due to the presence of chemical contaminants. We currently have 75 systems on order or under contract in California, Arizona and New Jersey with an aggregate installed capacity of approximately 105,000 acre-feet per year, or approximately 94.2 billion gallons per year. Our customers include American Water, Aqua America, California Water Service Group and American States Water Company, four of the largest investor-owned water utilities in the United States based on population served. Our ion-exchange treatment system is installed at the site of the well, also known as the wellhead, and can be adjusted to treat varying volumes of water. Ion-exchange is a process that treats contaminated water by using resins to chemically bond with specific contaminants, thus removing them from the treated water. Our process uses multiple beds of ion exchange resins through which the water flows until it meets appropriate contaminant levels. Our system produces what we believe are very low waste rates, can meet a wide range of volume requirements and is capable of removing multiple chemical contaminants at a single site. While our system can treat a wide range of chemical contaminants, we have focused the majority of our initial efforts on three key groundwater contaminants: arsenic, nitrate and perchlorate. These contaminants, which have been linked to various cancers, diseases and metabolic disorders, have received substantial focus and attention of the United States Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, and state regulatory agencies, media and consumer groups. As a result, this has created our most immediate market opportunity for treatment of groundwater. Rapid population growth and decreasing drinking water supplies, due to increased chemical contamination and increasingly stringent environmental regulation, have fueled the growth of the groundwater contaminant treatment industry. While the effects of these factors are felt throughout the United States, they are particularly acute in the southwest portion of the country west of the 100th meridian, which we refer to as the Arid West. This region is currently experiencing some of the nation’s highest population growth and a chronic water shortage. We believe that treatment of the large amount of contaminated groundwater represents the most cost-effective and viable method to expand the water supply to meet the needs of a growing population, and represents a significant market opportunity for us. Water treatment for chemical contaminant removal is recognized by the EPA as a significant area of need in the United States. In a report published in June 2005, the EPA estimated that water contaminant treatment projects in the United States will require $53.2 billion in investment over the next 20 years. We make available free of charge through our internet website our press releases, this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all other required filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and amendments thereto as soon as reasonably practical after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Our internet website also contains our Code of Ethics. Our principal executive offices are located at 8731 Prestige Court, Rancho Cucamonga, California 91730, and our telephone number is (909) 481-6800. Our website address is www.basinwater.com. The information on our website is not part of nor incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 2 Table of Contents Company History We were incorporated in California in 1999, and we reincorporated in Delaware in connection with our initial public offering which was completed in May 2006. Our operations from 1999 until 2001 consisted primarily of research and development activities, as we developed our proprietary ion-exchange process. Our proprietary process was conceived by Peter L. Jensen, our Chief Executive Officer, and Dr. Gerald Guter, our late Chief Scientific Officer. Also during this time, we developed a groundwater treatment system for commercialization of our proprietary process and increased our personnel to include additional engineers and sales and marketing personnel. We successfully completed a prototype for our groundwater treatment system in May 2002, and shortly thereafter, we assisted one of our customers in submitting an application with DHS for a permit to operate our system for treatment of nitrate. In June 2002, our customer received the first permit from DHS for operation of our system to treat groundwater. We also received our first revenues in 2002 from sales of our groundwater treatment system and operations. From 2002 through 2006, our operations have focused on: • developing systems that could treat other contaminants in addition to nitrate; • increasing our engineering workforce to enhance and streamline our system manufacturing process; • developing our sales and marketing force; • obtaining patents for our proprietary ion-exchange process; and • improving our internal control over financial reporting. Industry Overview We believe that increased demand for available drinking water coupled with decreasing supply of that water has fueled the growth in the groundwater contaminant treatment industry: Drinking water sources and benefits of groundwater. Drinking water throughout the United States is supplied primarily from surface water and groundwater. In the Arid West, available surface water is largely claimed, leaving little room for expansion of this source to meet increasing demand. Procurement of surface water can also be expensive, often requiring miles of transport before consumption. Desalination is a potential source of drinking water; however, we believe that the potential benefit of desalination as an alternative source of drinking water is limited due to a number of factors, including the high energy costs associated with the process, the relative inefficiency of the process, the substantial financial investment required to construct a desalination plant, the need to place such plants near an electric power generation plant and in a coastal location and the environmental opposition to brine discharge and entrapment and impingement of marine organisms. Groundwater, which according to the United States Geological Survey, or USGS, serves as the primary source of drinking water for more than half of the United States population, has numerous advantages over surface water as a dependable source for water providers. According to the USGS, at any given time, the 1.0 million cubic miles of groundwater in storage is more than 30 times greater than the available supply of surface water in freshwater lakes and streams. Compared to surface water resources, the extraction of groundwater is relatively inexpensive due to its abundance and minimal need for investment by water providers for transport. Groundwater is also a more stable source of drinking water because water providers are able to determine precisely the amount of water they can pump each year. Furthermore, the volume of groundwater pumped can be adjusted to meet seasonal needs so that no excess water is pumped from the well and stored in a surface environment that is subject to evaporation. Finally, groundwater is less affected by weather conditions, including droughts, because it is not exposed to surface elements. Increasing demand for available drinking water. Population growth has resulted in increased demand for drinking water in much of the United States. As a result, water providers are challenged continually with securing 3 Table of Contents drinking water resources to meet the needs of their customers. Many areas in the United States experience drinking water shortages on an annual basis. This is a problem particularly acute in California and other states in the Arid West, where population growth has resulted in rapidly increasing demand for drinking water. For example, the population of California and Arizona, collectively, grew by approximately 5.6 million people between 1990 and 2000. The U.S. Census Bureau expects this trend of population growth to continue, with the combined population of these two states expected to increase by more than 12.0 million people over the next 20 years. With much of the Arid West experiencing chronic shortages of drinking water, additional sources of drinking water will be necessary to support this anticipated rapid population growth. Contaminated drinking water is also becoming a notable problem in other parts of the United States, including the Northeast. Decreasing supply of available drinking water. Though groundwater is both a cost-effective and advantageous alternative to surface water, it is at substantial risk of contamination from a number of sources. Due to population growth into areas adjacent to industrial locations and recent technological improvements in water testing equipment, groundwater contamination that can pose serious health threats to humans continues to be discovered at an increasing rate. Because of health concerns, the Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA and state regulatory agencies have been active in establishing maximum containment levels, or MCLs for chemical contaminants in drinking water to ensure that the public has access to a safe drinking water supply. In addition, improvements in water testing and treatment technologies have allowed the EPA and state regulatory agencies to lower the MCL for certain contaminants. Chemical contaminants, such as arsenic, nitrate and perchlorate, are increasingly found to be present in underground aquifers, and we expect the cost of clean-up for these underground aquifers in order to meet applicable MCLs will increase the cost of drinking water to consumers. In addition, as groundwater wells are shut down due to non-compliant contaminant levels, the availability of groundwater decreases, resulting in a lower supply and generally a higher price for drinking water. Market Opportunity Because groundwater has significant advantages over other sources of drinking water, we believe that a large market opportunity exists in providing a solution for groundwater treatment. There are few economically attractive alternatives for treating groundwater at the wellhead. Customarily, water providers either shut down a contaminated well or blend the water with non-contaminated water to meet an MCL. Ion exchange technology is acknowledged as a leading technology for groundwater treatment, including being designated by the DHS as a “best available technology” for treating groundwater for removal of contaminants. Water providers may also use technologies such as coagulation microfiltration, media absorption (a process that removes contaminants by chemically bonding them to a media such as activated carbon), reverse osmosis and electrodialysis reversal for the removal of contaminants from drinking water. As compared to our system, many existing contaminant treatment technologies are costly, produce large amounts of waste or are generally designed for large industrial installations rather than for wellhead treatment. We believe there is significant demand for cost-effective groundwater treatment using our system. We believe that the Arid West represents our largest initial geographic opportunity given the region’s significant population, continued population growth, chronic shortage of surface water, large number of groundwater wells and high occurrence of contaminants in groundwater resources. Our system allows water providers to forego importing and blending water and instead obtain a steady supply of drinking water by treating groundwater assets they already own at a lower total cost than other methods and technologies. We plan on expanding our presence across the United States over the next twelve to eighteen months. We are focusing initially on treatment of groundwater for three key chemical contaminants: arsenic, nitrate and perchlorate. These contaminants, which have been linked to various cancers, diseases and metabolic disorders, have received substantial focus and attention of the EPA and state regulatory agencies, media and consumer groups. As a result, this has created our most immediate market opportunity for treatment of groundwater. As MCLs for these contaminants are established or reduced on both the national and state levels, contamination of groundwater continues to increase and population continues to grow, we believe the total 4 Table of Contents number of wells requiring treatment across the United States, and thus the market opportunity for our groundwater treatment system, will continue to grow. Arsenic. Arsenic is a naturally occurring element found in soil, but also comes from industrial and agricultural sources. It is a powerful toxin that is frequently found in groundwater supplies. Prolonged exposure to very low levels of arsenic is linked to numerous cancers and other serious health problems. In February 2002, the EPA lowered the MCL for arsenic from 50 parts per billion, or ppb, to 10 ppb and mandated that all drinking water sold by water providers in the United States must meet the new standard, which we refer to as the Arsenic Rule, which went into effect January 23, 2006. According to the California Department of Water Resources, the Arsenic Rule also is expected to place over 500 groundwater sources out of compliance in California alone. Compliance with the Arsenic Rule is expected to result in increased regulatory costs over the next 20 years, with the EPA estimating that 5% of the 54,000 active community water systems in the United States, serving approximately 11.0 million people, will have to take prompt action to meet the new MCLs. Some state legislatures, such as that of California, currently are discussing a lower standard for arsenic. If California or other states were to set lower standards for arsenic than required under the Arsenic Rule, additional groundwater wells are likely to be impacted and the cost of compliance is likely to increase. Nitrate. Nitrates are ionic substances widely found in the environment as byproducts of fertilizers, septic systems and groundwater recharge and can migrate easily into drinking water supplies. Once ingested, nitrates are converted into nitrites, which react chemically within the digestive and circulatory systems and have been linked to a number of cancers, diseases and methemoglobinemia, or “blue baby syndrome.” Nitrate, which has been detected in concentrations exceeding its MCL in over 1,000 groundwater sources in California, ranks second to only arsenic in terms of non-compliant detections in that state. Nitrate is recognized by the USGS as one of the most widespread contaminants of shallow groundwater across the United States, particularly in agricultural areas. According to a recent National Water Quality Assessment survey completed by the USGS, more than 8,200 groundwater wells were found to be contaminated with nitrate levels exceeding the EPA MCL of 10 ppm. In terms of population affected by nitrate contamination, the United States Department of Health and Human Services currently estimates that 1% to 2% of the United States population, or approximately 3.0 million to 6.0 million people, may be consuming drinking water from the public water system with nitrate levels exceeding the current EPA MCL. Perchlorate. Perchlorate is a toxic component of solid rocket and missile fuel and is present in ammunition, fireworks, highway safety flares, matches and air bags as well. The United States Department of Defense, or DOD, is a primary cause of perchlorate contamination as a result of the use of solid rocket fuel and other ammunition propellants on DOD sites. Excessive exposure to perchlorate disrupts the normal operation of the thyroid gland, causing various metabolic and developmental disorders in humans. Perchlorate treatment is an area of emerging focus within the groundwater treatment industry. On January 26, 2006, the EPA issued a preliminary remediation goal of 24.5 ppb for the cleanup of water contaminated with perchlorate, subject to revision upon further study. State advisory levels, however, are often significantly lower than EPA guidelines. For example, California, where there have been more than 300 perchlorate detections over the last 10 years, has recently set an MCL of 6 ppb for perchlorate. In March 2006, Massachusetts announced a proposed MCL of 2 ppb for perchlorate. In addition, Arizona, Maryland, Nevada, New Mexico and New York have set advisory levels for perchlorate ranging from 1 ppb through 18 ppb. Our Solution and Strengths Water providers generally do not have the expertise or resources to design, engineer, manufacture and implement solutions for treating their contaminated groundwater. We offer these water providers a system designed to treat groundwater contamination at the wellhead. We have developed a unique process using a multiple-bed system design, providing flexibility to meet different volume requirements and significantly reducing waste rates to provide our customers with a cost-effective method of treating contaminated 5 Table of Contents groundwater. We have obtained four patents in the United States, and have filed six additional patent applications with the USPTO. We have patents granted in five European countries and have filed nine patent applications in key jurisdictions around the world on various aspects of our treatment system process. Though, as compared to our competitors’ solutions, our system may have some disadvantages, such as its complexity and the potentially higher up-front capital costs for its installation, we believe our system provides a safe, reliable and sustainable source of drinking water with the following strengths that make it a compelling choice for water providers: Our system is highly effective at removing groundwater contaminants. Ion exchange technology has been used successfully for treatment of drinking water throughout the United States for decades. We employ ion exchange technology in a proprietary configuration using a multiple-bed system that can be sequenced in and out of service automatically using our state-of-the-art process simulation software program, Basin Water-IX. We have been successful in implementing our groundwater treatment technology that is designed to maximize the effectiveness of ion exchange technology in treating groundwater. Our system can reduce the contaminant level in groundwater significantly below the target MCL, thus enabling the water provider to keep its well in service. Recently, our system was issued an Environmental Technology Verification (ETV) Joint Verification Statement from the EPA and NSF International, a not-for-profit, non-governmental organization, with scientific and technical expertise in the health and environmental sciences, for its success in removing arsenic from groundwater to below detectable levels. In addition, should an MCL be lowered in the future, our system can easily be adjusted to meet any currently detectable level for the contaminants we treat. Because we expect MCLs to decrease over time, we expect our system’s flexibility to enable us to provide our customers with a long-term, highly effective groundwater treatment solution. Our system produces what we believe are low waste rates. Waste rates are measured by determining the amount of waste volume generated by our system divided by the total volume of raw water entering our system from the water provider’s well. For instance, if a system generates 1 gallon of waste from every 100 gallons entering the system, then it has a 1% waste rate. Our solution’s efficiency results in what we believe are very low waste rates based on our management’s industry knowledge and feedback from some of our customers. For instance, in nitrate applications, our system achieves waste rates as low as 0.40%. In arsenic applications, our system achieves waste rates as low as 0.05%. By using our solution, water providers can achieve a high yield of treated water with a correspondingly low amount of waste generated. This results in minimizing waste disposal costs, significantly reducing our customers’ operating costs and increasing the net amount of treated drinking water produced. Our system uses simulation software that can rapidly design and adjust the treatment process on a real-time basis. The Basin Water-IX software program is a proprietary, state-of-the-art simulation program specifically designed for analysis of the wellhead treatment of groundwater contaminants. It saves our clients the time associated with preliminary design engineering and the high expense associated with feasibility studies and a lengthy pilot test. Early in the design process, we use our Basin Water-IX program to provide detailed data for each customer application. The data generated includes accurate assessments of cost, post-treatment contaminant levels and waste rates. As a result, we generally can simulate six months of pilot testing in minutes. Our software provides for a level of process refinement that we believe is difficult to accomplish with competing approaches. In addition, based on data and measurements collected during the treatment process, our software enables us to adjust the treatment process of our system to make it more efficient and effective. Our system is capable of removing multiple contaminants within a single site. With minimal adjustments, our solution can, in many cases treat multiple contaminants with a single system. Our system is targeted primarily toward the removal of arsenic, nitrate and perchlorate, but is also capable of removing numerous other contaminants, including chromium VI, fluoride, uranium, selenium and sulfate, as requested by our customers. One of our systems installed with the City of Pomona, California, is capable of treating groundwater for the removal of arsenic, nitrate, perchlorate and chromium VI simultaneously. In most cases, our system can be 6 Table of Contents configured quickly to treat certain additional contaminants without having to add an entire new system. We believe that our solution’s ability to target multiple contaminants with the same system is distinctive in the industry and provides our customers with a cost-effective method for removing many contaminants. Our system is operated easily and includes support and maintenance services, if desired by our customers. Most water providers are thinly staffed and do not have significant resources to hire additional workers and pay for necessary training to operate a complex treatment facility. With this in mind, we have designed our system to be operated with minimal attention by our customers. Our system is licensed to be operated unmanned and with minimal supervision and maintenance, thus sparing our customers significant labor costs. Our automatic control system can be customized to interface with a water provider’s existing water production control system, often referred to as a Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition, or SCADA, system. Our customers generally do not incur significant costs to modify their well to accommodate our system or to purchase new and expensive monitoring equipment. Our system runs automatically and all its operations can be monitored by us or by our customers from a remote location. In addition, the BasinWater-IX program has an alert function to remotely notify a Basin Water support technician in the event a problem is detected. Our customer call operations are staffed 24 hours a day, 7 days a week with expert service and engineering professionals to ensure that our customers which elect to purchase maintenance and support from us have proper support. Furthermore, as part of our services, if so desired by our customer, we contract on behalf of our customer for the removal of all waste products by a licensed waste removal company. In addition, we also supply salt and replacement resin, which are used in our ion exchange process, to our customers as part of the support and maintenance services we provide. Our system operates with minimal electrical power, thereby reducing its operational cost for our customers. Many groundwater treatment solutions such as reverse osmosis and electrodialysis reversal use significant amounts of electrical power in order to remove contaminants from groundwater effectively. For example, reverse osmosis requires the application of great force to pump the water through a special membrane which separates contaminants from water. Electrodialysis reversal requires application of a direct current in order to electrochemically remove the contaminants from the water. Alternatively, ion exchange requires the flow of water through resin beds, which does not require a high amount of force to treat water effectively. Our system is installed adjacent to a wellhead and uses the well pump’s pressure to move water through the system for treatment. As a result, our customers are required to provide a minimal amount of electrical power in order to operate our system. In many cases, our customers are able to use existing power facilities to run our system’s electronics, resulting in reduced costs of operating our system, as compared to our competitors’ groundwater treatment solutions. Our system provides flexibility and scalability to meet water providers’ volume requirements. Groundwater wells pump water at various rates depending on need and season, and as a result, our customers may need a groundwater treatment solution capable of handling various throughput levels. This feature is especially important for water providers who use groundwater wells to meet seasonal water needs for their customers. Our system is offered in multiple configurations capable of producing treated water at a rate ranging from 50 gpm to 12,000 gpm. As a result, we are able to scale our Basin Water system as our customers scale their throughput needs. Our system has a small footprint and can be deployed rapidly. Traditional groundwater treatment systems typically consist of very large tanks and vessels, which require significant engineering and construction effort and may take up to 24 months to complete. Our system is self-contained, designed for mobility and rapid deployment, and considerably more compact than competing ion exchange systems. Because our system is manufactured from easily obtainable components, we experience few delays due to material shortages, and the assembly phase of a typical system usually takes from one to two weeks. Our engineers and manufacturing team assemble each system in our facilities and then deliver and install the system at the water provider’s well site. The small footprint of our system allows it to be transported easily to our customers’ well sites and to be deployed at well sites where other larger systems would not be feasible. 7 Table of Contents Our system is offered to our customers with flexible contract and financing structures. We offer customers the flexibility of choosing from different contract and financing structures. Customers can either buy our system or enter into long-term contracts with flexible terms that include monthly cash payments and/or processing charges based on the volume of groundwater treated by the system. Our Strategy Our goal is to become the leading provider of groundwater treatment systems and services to water providers throughout the United States, with an initial focus on the Arid West. We expect to achieve these goals through the following strategies: Target key groundwater contaminants. While our system has the ability to treat groundwater for a wide range of chemical contaminants, we have focused initially on applications treating three key groundwater contaminants: arsenic, nitrate and perchlorate. We believe that these three contaminants have created our most immediate market opportunity for the treatment of groundwater in the Arid West and the rest of the United States because they have received substantial focus and attention of the EPA and state regulatory agencies, media and consumer groups. According to the DHS, our technology was the first full-scale arsenic treatment facility to be permitted for water treatment in California. As of December 31, 2006, we have a total of 75 systems on order or under contract. This includes 41 arsenic treatment systems with an aggregate arsenic removal capacity of approximately 53,000 acre-feet per year, or 17.3 billion gallons per year; it also includes 21 nitrate treatment systems with an aggregate nitrate removal capacity of approximately 33,000 acre-feet per year, or 10.9 billion gallons per year. We also are targeting perchlorate actively in areas surrounding DOD testing sites, where perchlorate groundwater contamination has increasingly become the focus of media attention. As of December 31, 2006, we have 5 perchlorate treatment systems with an aggregate perchlorate removal capacity of approximately 10,000 acre-feet per year, or 3.3 billion gallons per year. Expand our business throughout the Arid West. We intend to expand our business aggressively throughout the Arid West by continuing to contract with our current customers to address their groundwater treatment needs and expanding our customer base through focused sales and marketing efforts. We believe that we have proven to our customers the accuracy, reliability and cost-effectiveness of our system and that these customers will continue to turn to our system as a treatment solution for additional wells. In addition, these water providers own hundreds of contaminated wells at which our system could be implemented. We plan to capitalize on this significant follow-on opportunity for our solution as these customers seek to treat these additional wells. By leveraging our success with our initial customers, we believe that we will be able to broaden our customer base throughout the Arid West to address the market opportunity with new customers seeking to meet regulatory requirements or to reactivate previously shut-down wells. We have commissioned a third party to compile a detailed database containing thousands of wells in California and other states in the Arid West that have been shut down due to contaminants, including arsenic, nitrate and perchlorate, and plan to target the owners of these wells for marketing our solution. Extend our geographic reach throughout the United States through the growth of our internal sales force and developing strategic relationships with companies serving and supplying the water industry on a national basis. We intend to extend our geographic reach throughout the United States by developing a national sales and marketing team which currently has nine employees. We are in the process of increasing the size of our sales force to provide the capacity and expertise necessary to develop our business throughout the United States. Our sales force has had recent successes in placing our systems in locations in New Jersey and is targeting other geographic areas within the United States. We have identified and will continue to identify companies servicing and supplying the water industry on a national basis that can provide strategic benefits to the marketing of our groundwater treatment system. As part of this strategy, in December 2005 we entered into a strategic sales and marketing agreement with The Shaw Group, Inc., or Shaw, to market our arsenic treatment system to water providers in various states. Since February 2006, we have also been working with Aqua America, Inc., or Aqua America, regarding potential joint venture opportunities. We believe that by partnering with these types of companies we can efficiently leverage their existing infrastructure to provide our low-cost solutions nationwide. 8 Table of Contents Maintain and extend our technology position. We have developed an intellectual property portfolio that we believe affords us a strong technology position in our industry. We intend to continue our active research and development efforts to strengthen the competitive position of our groundwater treatment technology through the development of new and improved processes and the filing of additional patent applications. Furthermore, we have developed a proprietary process, which we refer to as the BIONExchange process, for biologically removing and destroying perchlorate load from used ion-exchange resins. This process can also be used to remove and destroy perchlorate from brine resulting from regeneration of the ion-exchange resins. We have patents granted in five European countries and one patent with the USPTO directed to the BIONExchange process. Additionally, we are working on enhancements to our proprietary ion-exchange system and plan to explore other potential treatment applications for our technology. We may also pursue expanding our expertise into other water treatment technologies through acquisition of, or strategic alliance with other companies. Our Products and Services Design of System. We have developed a groundwater treatment process using a multiple-bed system design, providing flexibility to meet different volume requirements. The system allows beds to be sequenced in and out of service to optimize performance and offers users a wide range of production rates up to 12,000 gpm. The treatment system uses a small footprint that can be deployed rapidly. Groundwater is pumped from a well into the drinking water distribution system. To treat contaminated groundwater, the water is first pumped from the wellhead into our system. Our system is comprised of multiple vessels that operate on a parallel process. Once the water is inside the system, a computer sequences the water into one of multiple possible tanks, each of which contains a bed of ion exchange resin. As the water flows through the resin, the contaminants chemically attach to the resin in the ion exchange process. The contaminants remain on the resin while the clean water exits the system and enters the drinking water distribution system. This process continues until the resin inside the bed is saturated with contaminants. The computer then cycles the tank off-stream and pumps into the tank a saturated salt brine solution. The brine reverses the ion exchange process, drawing the contaminants out of the resin. In this way, the resin is regenerated so it can be used again. Individual ion exchange vessels are regenerated and rinsed while the remaining vessels are online producing treated water, thereby minimizing waste and time of treatment. The brine tank contains the waste from the multiple-bed treatment process and is emptied by a certified commercial waste hauler as required and designated by the customer. Manufacturing and Assembly. We manufacture groundwater treatment systems on a build-to-order basis with a four to six week lead-time. We receive our raw materials from suppliers located in the United States, and we manufacture our system in a 35,000 square foot plant at our headquarters in Rancho Cucamonga, California. Our existing manufacturing facilities can manufacture five systems simultaneously and our current manufacturing plan allows us to process 15 systems a month on a single shift. As of December 31, 2006, six systems were in process. We assemble our system in our manufacturing facility from components and subassemblies. We have designed our manufacturing operations specifically for low-cost, high quality production and, in conjunction with continual process improvements, we believe we will be able to decrease product development and manufacturing expenses over the next several years. Cost control and quality are managed from the design phase, and we have implemented a formal quality control system, which ensures that all problems are investigated and corrective action is taken, resulting in the elimination of potentially significant re-manufacturing expenses. This involves a close collaboration between manufacturing, service and engineering personnel, as well as our suppliers. Our vessels for our system are built for us on a just-in-time basis so as to minimize the need for storage facilities. Other components of our system are built using predominantly “off-the-shelf” components for which there are generally multiple suppliers. Permitting and Installation. Our customers must obtain a license and/or permit from a state regulatory agency in order to operate each system that we install at their wellheads. We work with our customers to secure 9 Table of Contents required licenses and permits from state regulatory agencies, including assisting with the completion of the license or permit application and responding to inquiries or requests from these regulators regarding our system. Each customer installation is designed using our proprietary BasinWater-IX software program. The BasinWater-IX software generally provides the data in a matter of minutes and generates accurate assessments of cost, post-treatment contaminant levels and waste rates, eliminating the need for a pilot test, which can cost more than $100,000 and take up to six months to complete. Our engineers have designed our simulation software to optimize our manufacturing operations by providing information on cost, performance, contaminant levels, disposal waste levels, energy levels and gpm rates of each system within days of receiving water composition data. Due to the modular design of our system, we can design, build and install our system in four to six weeks, which we believe is significantly shorter than many alternative treatment technologies, which often require years of lead time. Our engineers and manufacturing team assemble a system at our facilities and then deliver and install the system at the owner’s site. We arrange all necessary mechanical, electrical and site work required for the system installation. Once the system has been installed, the system is fully tested and commissioned for delivery of treated groundwater. We have assembled a team of highly skilled and experienced engineers with significant water industry and groundwater treatment experience. Our engineers and management personnel have backgrounds in providing and managing water assets, process control applications, software applications, instrumentation and control systems, and civil and mechanical engineering. Operation. Typically our system is installed adjacent to a wellhead. The system uses the well pump’s pressure to move water through the system. The minimal electrical power required to operate our system’s electronics allows our customers to use existing power facilities to operate the system. Our system requires at least one waste brine tank to be placed onsite. The brine tank is connected to a waste line that allows for a contracted waste removal company to remove the brine without entering the well site. During the course of the groundwater treatment process, we do not take ownership of the water or title to the waste generated from the treatment of water. Title to both the water rights and the waste remains with the water provider at all times during this process. Our system is fully automatic and uses a Program Logic Controller, or PLC, that runs advanced control programs to maximize treatment system performance and reliability while also minimizing waste products. The PLC controls all process equipment and constantly monitors values from process instrumentation and analyzers as well as operator-entered commands and set points and then executes control actions based on these values. An operator interface provides the user with real time information on process performance, as well as a comprehensive trending, reporting, and historical database function. The computer interface allows both our customer’s operators and Basin Water experts to access data such as water pressure, water flow, waste production and water quality. The information allows water providers to gain a deeper understanding of their well water characteristics. Additionally, we use the water information to enhance our BasinWater-IX predictive analysis software and to monitor the system’s usage for billing purposes. Each of the system operations can be monitored, adjusted or fine-tuned from a remote location, via a password-protected dial-up connection, which enables continual optimization in response to water quality changes. We provide each contaminant removal system with a built-in alarm system that can remotely call for service or shut-down the system in the event of an emergency. Moreover, due to our multiple-bed design, each system has built-in redundancies to allow for continued operations without volume loss in the event of a mechanical problem or routine maintenance. The control system may be configured to interface directly with a customer’s existing control or SCADA system as needed. For our nitrate treatment system, the PLC automatically shuts down the system should any water that exceeds the MCL for nitrate exit the system. Each 10 Table of Contents groundwater treatment system runs automatically, and the system can be monitored remotely. The system alerts a Basin Water service technician in the event of a problem. Our service technicians assist with the removal of waste products by either a licensed waste removal company or through the customer’s existing waste stream system. Additionally, we arrange for the delivery of operating materials, including salt and replacement resin, to the system and for the maintenance of the system. We include these costs as part of our long-term service contracts with our clients. Additional Applications. Our system’s scalability and flexibility in addressing different chemical contaminants allow it to be considered as a solution in other industrial applications where the removal of chemical contaminants is important, including deionization and water softening. We are not actively pursuing these opportunities but may explore them if presented to us in the future. Customers Our customers typically include utilities, municipalities and other organizations that supply water. In addition, from time to time, we place our system with engineering firms, developers, consultants and other industrial companies. Any water provider having groundwater supplies that are contaminated by one or more targeted chemical contaminants is a potential customer of Basin Water. The first permit to be issued by DHS to one of our customers for operation of our system was issued in 2002. As of December 31, 2006, we had a total of 75 systems on order or under contract with 26 different customers, of which 38 systems are processing water and 16 systems are awaiting regulatory permits, with the remaining 21 systems in various stages of contracting or manufacturing. The following customers accounted for more than 10% of our revenues in the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Baldy Mesa Water District 30 % * * Shaw Environmental, Inc. 17 % 11 % * Arizona American Water Company * 12 % * Del Valle Capital Corp. * 14 % * Coachella Valley Water District** * 34 % * California Water Services Company * * 12 % Golden State Water Company * * 12 % Earth Tech, Inc. * * 18 % Hi-Desert Water District * * 27 % Totals 47 % 71 % 69 % * Indicates a less than 10% customer during such period. ** We are parties to an arrangement pursuant to which Shaw provided site work, bonding and other services to Coachella Valley Water District. As of December 31, 2006, our revenues backlog was $91.9 million, an increase of $14.9 million, or 19%, compared to our revenues backlog of $77.0 million at December 31, 2005. Competition We believe that the groundwater treatment industry has substantial barriers to entry. The EPA has reviewed and accepted certain well-established technologies for use in drinking water applications and designated them as best available technology. Ion exchange technology has already been designated as a “best available technology” 11 Table of Contents by the EPA and the DHS. In order to introduce a new technology that is not designated by the EPA or other regulatory agencies as best available technology in the treatment of groundwater for drinking water applications, the technology must first undergo rigorous testing which often takes years, in order to assure that it produces drinking water that will not harm humans under any set of conditions. In addition to this testing, state regulatory agencies may also require independent approval of any such new technology. In addition to the barriers involved in introducing new non-best available technology into drinking water applications, water providers may be hesitant to do business with companies which are not established or have existing operations in the groundwater treatment industry. For example, in California, permits to operate water treatment systems are issued from the DHS directly to the water provider, not to the company supplying the treatment system. Water providers may be reluctant to support a new technology in obtaining its permit when other technologies have already been approved by state regulatory agencies in the past. Furthermore, there are significant barriers to entry even for companies relying on ion exchange technology. There are a large number of established and well-capitalized companies that already implement ion exchange technology in their solutions, and many of these large companies have strong and longstanding relationships with water providers. We believe these relationships are critical in establishing credibility and in maintaining steady business. In our experience, water providers rarely change vendors for a water treatment solution once they have entered into long-term contracts. Water services providers, such as Veolia Water, indicate that they have a 97% renewal rate on their long-term municipal contracts. We have a significant number of relationships, including with some of the largest utilities in the Arid West. In order for a new company that is using ion-exchange technology in groundwater treatment to succeed, it will need to distinguish itself from the other well-established companies in this industry. One of the most important distinguishing factors is having superior technology that provides a more cost-effective treatment solution. The operating cost of an ion-exchange unit is directly proportional to the amount of waste it produces. The lower the waste, the lower the operating costs and the more cost-effective the treatment solution. Conventional ion-exchange technologies were not viable for many treatment opportunities due to their high waste rates. We provide a water treatment solution with waste rates significantly lower than our competitors, allowing for lower operational costs. Historically, groundwater treatment solutions required long lead times from purchase to implementation and have been complex for water providers to operate. These treatment solutions were often designed for industrial applications, which due to the general abundance of space at a large manufacturing facility, did not require systems to be contained compactly and efficiently in a small footprint. As a result, we believe competing groundwater treatment solutions have not provided for cost-effective, reliable removal of groundwater contaminants from municipal groundwater sources at the wellhead. These well locations generally are located in populated areas where there is limited space for a treatment facility. We provide a compact solution with a small footprint that operates at the wellhead. Finally, another factor of competitiveness in our industry is the capital cost involved to implement a system. Customarily, ion-exchange system vendors would sell equipment and not provide for other methods of obtaining the system. By providing alternative methods of financing its system, a company can expand its potential customer base significantly. We allow customers to either buy the system or to enter into a long-term operating contract pursuant to which ownership is retained by us. In some of these situations, we have obtained third party financing of the system for our customer. Our competition varies according to the contaminant being removed. With respect to arsenic removal, our primary competitors are USFilter, Severn Trent, Calgon Carbon, Layne Christensen and other consulting engineers that design and construct large central facilities. With respect to nitrate removal, our primary competitors are Calgon Carbon, USFilter, Hungerford & Terry and Rohm & Haas, which licenses technology to various companies such as Layne Christensen. With respect to perchlorate removal, our primary competitors are USFilter and Calgon Carbon. 12 Table of Contents Many of our current and potential competitors have technical and financial resources, marketing and service organizations, and market expertise significantly greater than ours. However, we believe that we compete favorably based on the strength of our technology and our significant relationships with water providers. In addition, we believe we also compete favorably based on lower operational costs, lower waste production, range of contaminants that can be treated, compact system design, smaller footprint, shorter time to market, flexibility in financing options, operational experience, greater treatment design expertise, ease of operation and enhanced customer service. Sales and Marketing We market our system through a direct sales force, independent contractors and strategic partners. Members of our management team leverage their numerous business contacts to capitalize on opportunities to sell our system and services to water providers. In 2006, changes in MCLs, especially arsenic, are causing water providers to seek solutions such as ours to assist in their efforts to keep their groundwater supplies in compliance with regulatory standards. As a result, we periodically receive inquiries and are asked for referrals about our system. In addition, our existing client base refers our services to other water providers. Our sales representatives currently focus on the Arid West. We have an established sales and service office at our Rancho Cucamonga facility in Southern California as well as outside Phoenix, Arizona. Some of our sales representatives work remotely and are provided marketing and technical assistance from our two offices. We have established a strategic sales and marketing agreement with Shaw to expand nationally in the arsenic market on the terms described below. We also intend to expand our United States geographic reach through other strategic relationships in the national groundwater treatment market for nitrate and perchlorate as well as to build and use our own growing direct sales force and independent contractor relationships for this effort. We expect our sales team to use their expertise and contacts in the water treatment industry to develop and manage our relationships with customers and our strategic partners. Shaw Agreement Shaw is a national consulting, engineering, construction, remediation and environmental services company with over $3.0 billion in annual revenues and with established relationships with water providers across the United States. Pursuant to the Shaw agreement, we have granted Shaw the exclusive right to sell our arsenic treatment systems in the states of Idaho, Oregon, Washington, Alaska, Texas, Arkansas, Wisconsin, Minnesota, Michigan, Illinois, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, New York, Massachusetts, Maine, Vermont, New Hampshire and Connecticut. In addition to sale revenues, we will receive a portion of the recurring contract revenue on each system placed by Shaw in these states. Also, if Shaw opts not to bid on a project in these states, and we obtain the sale by bidding directly, we must pay a fee to Shaw in connection with such sale and a portion of the recurring contract revenues from such project. The initial term of the agreement is two years, and in order to maintain exclusivity in any state, Shaw must achieve at least $2.0 million in sales in that state in the first year of the contract term. Shaw met the minimum sales requirement during the first twelve months of the contract to maintain exclusivity in two states. Shaw has the option to extend the term of the agreement for an additional two years after the initial term, provided that the total sales of systems under the agreement exceed $19.0 million in the year preceding termination of the agreement. The agreement may be terminated upon mutual written consent of both us and Shaw, and it also may be terminated by either party if the other party breaches the agreement or upon the occurrence of certain insolvency events. We agree to sell Shaw our systems at a discount during the term of the agreement and for one year thereafter. We and Shaw agree to cooperate in placing our system with potential customers, including identifying placement opportunities, providing access to research and development and sales representatives, providing technical support (at cost plus a markup for overhead and profit) and providing referrals regarding queries for 13 Table of Contents arsenic remediation. We also provide a warranty to Shaw regarding our system for one year from the date of installation and acceptance. Pursuant to our December, 2005 binding commitment letter with Shaw, Shaw committed to purchase a total of $5.0 million of our groundwater treatment systems prior to December 31, 2006. In 2005, we granted to Shaw a warrant to purchase 300,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $7.00 per share in connection with its purchase of our groundwater treatment systems. One-fifth of the shares subject to this warrant will vest upon each $1.0 million of our groundwater treatment systems paid for by Shaw. As of December 31, 2006, no shares had vested under the Shaw warrant. The warrant may be exercised for five years after the date of grant. We recognized revenues of $2.9 million and $1.6 million during 2006 and 2005, respectively, pursuant to the Shaw agreement, which were offset by approximately $0.3 million and $0.2 million during 2006 and 2005, respectively, attributable to the fair value of the warrants we granted to Shaw. Government Regulation Our clients are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations concerning emissions to the air, discharges to waterways and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials and also are subject to other federal and state laws regarding health and safety matters. Under the contracts with our clients, we assist our clients in meeting these regulations and obtaining any required permits and/or licenses in order to implement our system. These laws and regulations are evolving constantly, and it is difficult to predict the effect these laws and regulations may have on us or our clients in the future. In the United States, many different federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the treatment and distribution of contaminated groundwater and disposal of attendant wastes. Changes in such laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. The increased interest in the treatment of contaminated groundwater due to increased media attention on the adverse health effects from contaminated drinking water may result in intervention by governmental regulatory agencies in the United States or elsewhere under existing or newly enacted legislation and in the imposition of restrictions, fees or charges on users and providers of products and services in this area. Conversely, the failure of the EPA or state regulatory agencies to act on a timely basis to set interim or permanent standards for pollutants, or to delay effective dates for standards for pollutants, grant waivers of compliance with such standards or take other discretionary actions not to enforce these standards, may decrease demand for our system and services and thus harm our business significantly. Each groundwater treatment solution, including our contaminant treatment system, must be permitted by applicable state regulatory agencies prior to use of such systems by our customers. Typically, our customers apply for a permit from the applicable state regulatory agency to use our system, and we assist our customers in completion of the permit application process. The application process for our system is time consuming and often involves several information requests to our customers by the regulatory agencies with respect to our system. Furthermore, we cannot predict the impact of changing drinking water standards on the approval of our technology for groundwater treatment. The MCLs for contaminants are subject to review and revision by the EPA and applicable state regulatory agencies. The MCLs may be changed to levels below that which our system can treat on a cost-effective basis, and if we are unable to design a system that removes contaminants below the designated MCL, then the state regulatory agencies will fail to approve our system. Without regulatory approval, our system could not be used by our customers, and we would be required to develop technology that meets any revised MCLs. To the extent we cannot, sales of our system will suffer. Although our customers retain title to the brine waste generated by our system, we facilitate the removal of the waste with a licensed waste disposal service and in some cases contract directly with the waste transporter on behalf of our customer. As such, we may become subject to the provisions of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, or CERCLA. CERCLA, which is also known as 14 Table of Contents Superfund, addresses problems created by the release or threatened release of hazardous substances (as defined in CERCLA) into the environment. CERCLA imposes strict, joint and several liability for remediation of certain disposal sites on: current owners and operators of the site, on former site owners and operators at the time of disposal, on parties who arranged for disposal or treatment or arranged for transportation for disposal or treatment of hazardous substances at the site, and on parties that transport hazardous substances to a site. Because CERCLA liability is joint and several, the costs of a CERCLA cleanup can be substantial. Because liability under CERCLA is strict, it is not premised upon the violation of any law, statute, rule or regulation but is rather based upon a party’s status as an owner, operator, transporter or arranger (as those terms are described above). Such liability can therefore be based upon the release or threatened release, even as a result of lawful, unintentional and non-negligent action, of any one of the more than 700 “hazardous substances” listed by the EPA, even in small amounts. Research and Development Our research and development activities primarily consist of the design and evaluation of experimental ion exchange processes and groundwater treatment systems for the removal of various contaminants. We believe we spend a significant amount of resources on research and development as compared to many of our competitors. Through our research and development activities, we have developed an intellectual property portfolio that we believe affords us a strong technology position in our industry. We intend to continue our active research and development efforts to strengthen the position of our groundwater treatment technology through the development of new and improved processes and the filing of additional patent applications. The principal goals of our research program are maintaining our position as a technological leader in solving customers’ problems with our system, services and equipment, and developing new products and services. We may also pursue expanding our expertise into other water treatment technologies through acquisition of, or strategic alliance with other companies. As part of our research and development, we have developed a technology for biologically removing and destroying perchlorate load from used ion-exchange resins and alternatively from perchlorate-laden ion exchange resin regeneration brines. This technology combines biological and ion exchange treatment in an innovative method which has not been used in the past. We have patents granted in five European countries directed to the BIONExchange process. Additionally, we have a patent granted by the USPTO, which is directed to a process for the removal of perchlorate. We also have contracted with the East Valley Water District to install a full-scale perchlorate removal system which will utilize this technology pending permitting by DHS. Once the process receives an operating permit by DHS, we plan to market this technology more extensively within the next 12 months. We have a sponsored research arrangement with the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, or UNLV, under which they are researching and testing certain aspects related to the regeneration of exchange resins that may be useful in the BIONExchange process. Any intellectual property developed by us under the agreement will be owned by us, any intellectual property developed by UNLV under the agreement will be owned by UNLV and intellectual property developed jointly will be jointly owned by the parties. We have an option to acquire intellectual property not solely owned by us, and we paid $0.1 million to UNLV in both 2006 and 2005. There were no payments to UNLV in 2004. Research and development expenses were $0.6 million, $0.7 million and $0.3 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Intellectual Property Our intellectual property is the result of many years of research and development efforts. We have pursued a broad strategy of protecting our intellectual property, including seeking patent protection, safeguarding trade secrets, registering trademarks and using non-disclosure and other contractual agreements to protect other intellectual property rights. We have developed what we believe to be an innovative process design that significantly improves the economics of using ion exchange for groundwater treatment. We have two issued United States patents directed 15 Table of Contents to a system and process for the removal of arsenic, one issued United States patent directed to a process for the removal of nitrate, and one United States patent directed to a process for the removal of perchlorate. We also have granted patents in five European countries directed to our BIONExchange process, a proprietary process for biologically removing and destroying perchlorate load from used ion exchange resins and alternatively from perchlorate-laden ion exchange resin regeneration brines. We expect to be issued a number of patents directed to processes and systems for the removal of other contaminants. We currently are developing technology related to the removal of chromium VI and uranium and destruction of perchlorate and reuse of ion exchange resins, for which we plan to seek patent protection. In addition, we hold six pending United States patent applications and nine pending foreign patent applications on various aspects of our treatment processes. Our patents and patent applications as a group are related to ion exchange and the treatment of one or more of the following contaminants: • Arsenic • Chromium VI • Fluoride • Nitrate • Perchlorate • Selenium • Sulfate We employ the Basin-IX software program for the operation of our system. We also use this software program for the design of our system to determine the most efficient operating parameters for our system based upon the contaminant profile of the water source being treated. We own pending trademark applications in the United States for Basin Water® and Basin Water IX™. As part of our business procedures, we typically enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements, or have confidentiality provisions in any agreements, with our employees, independent contractors and consultants, and non-disclosure agreements with our customers, partners, independent contractors and consultants. Employees As of December 31, 2006, we employed 65 full-time and no part-time employees. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining agreement. There are no pending labor-related legal actions against us filed with any state or federal agency. We believe our employee relations are good. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business We have a limited operating history, have incurred significant operating losses in our first few years of operation and have not consistently achieved profitability on an annual basis We have a limited operating history and limited revenues derived from our operations. We began our business operations in December 1999 and did not generate our first revenues until 2002. Our revenues grew 16 Table of Contents from $4.3 million in 2004 to $12.2 million in 2005 and $17.1 million in 2006. We have incurred significant net losses attributable to common stockholders since our inception, including net losses of $1.3 million in 2003, $0.6 million in 2004 and $11.2 million in 2006. Our net loss in 2006 resulted in part from reserves we recorded in connection with certain of our contracts which have ongoing operating costs in excess of our contract revenues. We may not be successful in renegotiating these contracts, and as a result, our losses relating to these contracts may continue longer than we expect. At December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $15.3 million. Our operations prior to 2006 primarily focused on development of our technology and groundwater treatment system, building our sales and marketing capabilities, commencing the commercial launch of our system and developing and maintaining customer relationships. In addition, our ability to sell our systems and services depends on, among other things, the level of demand for contaminated groundwater treatment which is an evolving market. Even if we do achieve significant revenues from our business operations, increased operating expenses associated with any expansion of our business may result in future operating losses in the near term as we, among other things: • seek to acquire new customers; • expand geographically beyond the Arid West; • make significant capital expenditures to support our ability to provide services under our recurring revenue contracts; • expand our internal sales force and develop strategic relationships with companies serving the water industry on a national basis; • fund development costs for our system and technology; and • incur increased general and administrative expenses as our company grows, including increased costs as a result of becoming a public company. As a result of these and other factors, we may not achieve, sustain or increase our profitability on an ongoing basis. Our future operating results will likely fluctuate significantly from period to period. We expect our future revenues and operating results to fluctuate significantly from period to period due to a number of factors, including: • customer budgets or commitments for our groundwater treatment system and/or services; • the effectiveness of our new and expanding internal sales and marketing organization; • demand for our system and/or services; • our ability to develop and market new and enhanced technology, including our proprietary ion exchange technology; • product and price competition in our market; • length of our sales cycle; • general economic conditions; and • ability to control our costs, including labor and the cost of materials to build our system. Any of the foregoing factors, some of which are out of our control, may cause our operating expenses to be disproportionately high or cause our revenues and operating results to fluctuate, which could prevent us from 17 Table of Contents maintaining or increasing our business. In addition, our future revenues or our future operating expenses may not be consistent with our past results, which could adversely affect our stock price. If we do not manage our anticipated growth effectively, we may not be able to develop or implement the infrastructure to support our operations, market our services and manage our relationships with customers which could place significant strain on our management and significantly harm our business and operating results. We have grown rapidly, with our revenues increasing from $4.3 million in 2004 to $12.2 million in 2005 and $17.1 million in 2006, and the number of our employees increasing from 29 as of December 31, 2004 to 44 as of December 31, 2005 and 65 as of December 31, 2006. We expect to continue to expand significantly our management, research and development, marketing and sales, testing, quality control, engineering functions, customer service and support operations as well as financial and accounting controls. This expansion has placed, and will continue to place, significant strain on our management and administrative, operational, technical and financial infrastructure. If our management is unable to manage growth effectively, the quality of our field services, our ability to attract and retain key personnel, and our business or prospects could be harmed significantly. To manage growth effectively, we must: • continue to expand our manufacturing capacity; • increase the size of and continually monitor our field service support capability; • meet the demands placed on us by our customers; • continue to enhance our operations and financial and management systems; • maintain and improve effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures; and • expand, train and manage our employee base. We may not be able to effectively manage any expansion in one or more of these areas, and any failure to do so could harm our ability to maintain or increase revenues and operating results. In addition, our growth may require us to make significant capital expenditures or to incur other significant expenses, and may divert the attention of our personnel from our core business operations, any of which could affect our financial performance adversely. Our financial success will depend in part on the efforts of strategic partners we may work with in the future. In December 2005, we entered into a strategic sales and marketing agreement with Shaw to market our arsenic treatment systems on an exclusive basis to water providers in various states. We may enter into other such strategic relationships with other companies focused on the water industry on a national basis. Our financial success and our anticipated growth will depend in part on the efforts of these strategic partners in marketing and selling our groundwater treatment systems. If Shaw or any other strategic partners fail to perform satisfactorily under their respective agreements with us, or if we fail to maintain these relationships or establish new relationships as required, then sales of our systems will likely suffer. In addition, our revenues may not grow as anticipated, and we could be subject to unexpected costs which could harm our operating results and financial condition significantly. To date, our revenues under the agreement with Shaw have been less than were anticipated. Our long sales cycles make predicting our financial results difficult. Typically, our contracts have a term of five or more years and, with respect to systems that are not sold outright to the water provider, also contain an option either to purchase the system or to renew the contract at the 18 Table of Contents end of the initial contract term. Since most of our sales are based on long-term contracts, our customers generally take a longer time to decide to purchase our system and/or services, thus creating a lengthy sales cycle. Other reasons for our long sales cycle include: • the size of the initial capital outlay to be incurred by our customers; • the availability of many alternatives that may be considered by our customers, including water importation, water blending, coagulation microfiltration (a process of destabilizing charges on contaminants in water by adding chemical coagulants that can then be filtered and removed), reverse osmosis (a pressure-driven separation process that removes contaminants from water by forcing them through a membrane barrier), electrodialysis reversal (a process that transfers contaminants by direct electric current flow through membranes thus removing them from water) and ion exchange processes of our competitors; • the long approval procedures imposed by state agencies; and • the lengthy approval process of many water provider’s equipment/contract procurement procedures due to multiple approvals that may be required by municipal boards, public bidding or state public utility commission requirements, which is sometimes exacerbated by the initial capital outlay needed to purchase our system. Our long sales cycles, as well as the placement of large orders with short lead times on an irregular and unpredictable basis, may cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly and unexpectedly from period to period. Since our operating expenses are largely based on anticipated revenue trends and a significant portion of our expenses are, and will continue to be, fixed, any delay in generating or recognizing revenues could harm our operating results or financial condition significantly. Our groundwater treatment system and the technology upon which it is based may not achieve widespread market acceptance among our water provider customers which may impact demand for our system and services. We have developed our proprietary technology and processes for groundwater treatment based on ion exchange technology that competes with other forms of groundwater treatment technologies that currently are in operation throughout the United States. Our groundwater treatment system and the technology on which it is based may not achieve widespread market acceptance. Our success will depend on our ability to market our system and services to businesses and water providers on terms and conditions acceptable to us and to establish and maintain successful relationships with various water providers and state regulatory agencies. We believe that market acceptance of our system and technology and our related success will depend on many factors including: • the perceived advantages of our system over competing groundwater treatment solutions; • the actual and perceived safety and efficacy of our system; • the availability and success of alternative groundwater treatment solutions; • the pricing and cost effectiveness of our system; • our ability to access businesses and water providers that may use our system; • the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts; • the permitting of our technology by state regulatory agencies; • the willingness of potential customers to enter into long-term contracts; • publicity concerning our system and technology or competitive solutions; 19 Table of Contents • timeliness in assembling and installing our system on customer sites; • the ability of Shaw to market our arsenic treatment system and related services successfully on a national basis; • whether or not our existing customers continue to use our system and services and/or renew service contracts after their expiration; • our ability to respond to changes in the regulatory standards for maximum contaminant levels of various contaminants; and • our ability to provide effective service and maintenance of our system to our customers’ satisfaction. If our system or technology fails to achieve or maintain market acceptance or if new technologies are introduced by others that are more favorably received than our technology, are more cost effective or otherwise render our technology obsolete, we may experience a decline in demand for our system. If we are unable to market and sell our system and services successfully, our revenues would decline and our operating results and prospects would suffer. We may be unable to attract and retain qualified personnel which could harm our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects significantly. Our future success also will depend, in large part, on our ability to identify, attract and retain sufficient numbers of highly skilled employees, particularly qualified sales, marketing and engineering personnel. As of December 31, 2006, we had 65 employees. Although we have expanded our sales force somewhat, we have a limited number of sales and marketing employees and consultants, as well as service employees who monitor our installed systems. We may not succeed in identifying, attracting and retaining individuals who qualify for these positions. Further, competitors and other companies may attempt to recruit our employees or our prospective employees. If we are unable to hire and retain adequate staffing levels, we may not be able to increase sales of our systems or services or adequately support our installed systems, which could harm our business and prospects. Our future success also depends on the experience and expertise of Peter Jensen, our CEO, whose talents, efforts and relationships within the water industry have been, and continue to be, critical to our success. We have an employment agreement with Mr. Jensen that provides for “at will” employment. However, we cannot prevent Mr. Jensen from leaving our employ if he chooses to do so. We do not currently carry “key man” insurance upon the life of Mr. Jensen or the lives of any of our employees or officers. The loss of Mr. Jensen’s services and access to his abilities and relationships could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our customer base and could harm our operating results and prospects significantly. The current geographic concentration of our customers in California and Arizona and the location of our headquarters in California make our business particularly vulnerable to adverse conditions affecting these markets. Currently, our customers are concentrated geographically, primarily in the states of California and Arizona. Our revenues and operating results are therefore subject to local regulatory, economic, demographic and weather conditions in those areas. A change in any of these conditions could make it more costly or difficult for us to conduct our business. In addition, we are subject to greater risk of loss from earthquakes and wildfires because our headquarters, where we assemble our systems, and most of the well locations that utilize our system are concentrated in California. Any of these occurrences could result in increased costs and a disruption in our operations, which would harm our operating results and financial condition significantly. 20 Table of Contents Due to our current client concentration, a loss of one of our significant customers could harm our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects. As of December 31, 2006, we had 26 customers. Our top two customers collectively, accounted for 47% of our revenues during 2006 and typically have more than one contract with us for services provided to different wells. Our customers, including these top two customers, may, upon the occurrence of certain circumstances, elect to terminate their contracts with us prior to their expiration and seek services from our competitors. In addition, upon the expiration of these contracts, our customers may decide not to renew such contracts with us. If we were to lose one or more of these significant customers for any reason, our revenues would decline significantly and our business, operating results and prospects would suffer. Most of our operations are conducted in one facility in Southern California. Any disruption at our manufacturing and executive office facility could increase our expenses. Most of our operations are conducted in one facility in Southern California, with all manufacturing operations and our executive offices located at that facility. We take precautions to safeguard our facilities, including obtaining insurance, maintaining health and safety protocols, and using off-site storage of computer data. However, a natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire or flood, could cause substantial delays in our operations, damage or destroy our manufacturing equipment or inventory and cause us to incur additional expenses. The insurance we maintain against natural disasters may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case, which would require us to expend significant resources to replace any destroyed assets, thereby harming our financial condition and prospects significantly. We face risks associated with the design and operation of our system which may prevent us from increasing our revenues. We take responsibility for the design, construction, initial maintenance and installation of our groundwater treatment system. However, we cannot predict whether we will be able to design our system for every particular groundwater contaminant. Thus, we may be required to turn away customers that require treatment of chemical contaminants that our system does not treat. We also cannot guarantee that once constructed, our system will operate according to its design or be free from defects. Because our system treats groundwater for dangerous contaminants, if our system fails to operate properly, it could cause significant public harm. Following installation, testing and regulatory certification of a system, actual day-to-day operation of our groundwater treatment systems is transitioned to our customer’s personnel. Though we retain ownership of many of our systems, our customers take responsibility for operation of these systems. We, however, continue to be responsible for the maintenance of the installed systems in most cases. We may not be able to provide sufficient employees for the maintenance of those systems. In addition, because our systems are located at our customers’ sites, we will not always be physically present should problems arise. If there are defects in our system or if significant reliability, quality or performance problems develop with respect to our system or services, this may have a number of negative effects on our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects, including: • loss of revenues; • loss of existing customers; • failure to attract new customers and achieve market acceptance; • delays in collecting accounts receivable; • diversion of management and development resources and the attention of engineering personnel; • significant customer relations problems; 21 Table of Contents • high service, support, repair, warranty and insurance expenses; • removal of our systems from service by state regulatory agencies for failure to operate properly; and • legal actions for damages by our customers. In order to operate our business successfully, we must meet evolving customer requirements for groundwater treatment and invest in the development of our water treatment technology. If we fail to develop or enhance our system and services to satisfy evolving customer demands, our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects will be harmed significantly. The market for groundwater treatment is characterized by changing technologies, periodic new product introductions and evolving customer and industry standards. For instance, competitors in the groundwater treatment industry are continuously searching for methods of water treatment that are more cost-effective and more efficient. Our current and prospective customers may choose groundwater treatment solutions and/or services that are offered at a lower price than our system and/or services. To achieve market acceptance for our system and services, we must effectively and timely anticipate and adapt to customer requirements and offer products and services that meet customer demands. This may cause us to pursue other technologies or capabilities through acquisitions or strategic alliances. Our customers may require us to provide water treatment solutions for many different contaminants or higher volumes of water or to decrease the presence of contaminants well below an applicable MCL. We also may experience design, engineering and other difficulties that could delay or prevent the development, introduction or marketing of any modifications to our system or our new services. Our failure to develop successfully and offer a system or services that satisfy customer requirements would significantly weaken demand for our system or services, which would likely cause a decrease in our revenues and harm our operating results. In addition, if our competitors introduce solutions and/or services based on new or alternative water treatment technologies, our existing and future system and/or services could become obsolete, which would also weaken demand for our system or services, thereby decreasing our revenues and harming our operating results. Our reliance on third party suppliers poses significant risks to our business and prospects. We contract for all of the components in our system, including commodity products such as salt and replacement resin, with third-party suppliers. We are subject to substantial risks because of our reliance on these suppliers. For example: • our suppliers may not provide components that meet our specifications in sufficient quantities; • our suppliers may face a reduction or an interruption of supply of our components; • our suppliers may face production delays due to natural disasters or strikes, lock-outs or other such actions; • one or more suppliers could make strategic changes in its or their product lines; and • many of our suppliers are small companies which are more likely to experience financial and operational difficulties than larger, well-established companies, because of their limited financial and other resources. As a result of any of these factors, we may be required to find alternative suppliers for the components of our system. It may take considerable amounts of time to identify and qualify such alternative suppliers. In addition, we may be required to redesign our system to conform to the components provided by these alternative suppliers. As a result of these factors, we may experience delays in obtaining raw materials and components on a timely basis and in sufficient quantities from our suppliers, which could result in delays in the production and installation of our system. These delays could harm our ability to sell our system or enter into recurring revenue contracts, which would cause our revenues and operating results to decline. 22 Table of Contents As part of our growth, we intend to increase our ability to provide service to our customers under recurring revenue contracts and develop new technologies internally. Our failure in these endeavors could negatively impact our stock price and cause our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects to suffer. We plan to continue to grow rapidly for the foreseeable future. As part of this growth, we intend to make significant capital expenditures in order to support our operations focused on our recurring revenue contracts. In addition, we plan to continue developing new technologies through our research and development efforts. The capital expenditures we make or the technologies we develop internally may not result in the financial results that we expected. In addition, developing new technologies may cause diversion of management’s attention from our existing business. All of these factors could prevent us from maintaining or increasing our customer base and business and cause the price of our common stock to decline. The revenues from our long-term contracts are moderately seasonal, with higher processing fees received in the summer months and lower processing fees received in the winter months. Our business, particularly the revenues we receive from our long-term contracts, is moderately seasonal due to the impact of summer and hot weather conditions on the water requirements of our customers. In the summer and warmer months, our customers have a higher demand for water and must increase the utilization of their groundwater resources resulting in a higher volume of groundwater treated during a period and thus higher revenues from our long-term contracts. Conversely, our customers experience lower demand in cooler months in the first and fourth calendar quarters, resulting in lower revenues from our long-term contracts during those periods. This seasonality in processing fees has resulted in fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. These moderate seasonal trends can cause some reductions in our profit margin and variations in our financial condition, especially during our slower periods. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Failure to protect, or uncertainty regarding the validity, enforceability or scope of, our intellectual property rights could impair our competitive position. Our groundwater treatment system and services utilize a variety of proprietary rights that are important to our competitive position and success. Because the intellectual property associated with our technology is evolving and rapidly changing, our current intellectual property rights may not protect us adequately. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets and contractual restrictions to protect the intellectual property we use in our business. In addition, we generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements, or have confidentiality provisions in agreements, with our employees, consultants, strategic partners and customers and control access to, and distribution of, our technology, documentation and other proprietary information. We have filed six pending patent applications with the USPTO and hold four issued United States patents. We have filed nine patent applications in key foreign jurisdictions around the world and hold five granted foreign patents on various aspects of our treatment system process. These pending patent applications may not be granted or, if granted, the resulting patent may be challenged or invalidated by our competitors or by other third parties. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. In addition, monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, and we cannot be certain the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will prevent unauthorized use of it. Because legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of patent and intellectual property rights in new technologies are uncertain and still evolving, the future viability or value of our intellectual property rights is uncertain. Furthermore, our competitors independently may develop similar technologies that limit the value of our intellectual property or design around patents issued to us. If competitors or third parties are able to use our intellectual property or are able to successfully challenge, circumvent, invalidate or render unenforceable our intellectual property, we likely would lose a significant portion of our competitive advantage in the market. We may not be successful in securing or maintaining proprietary or patent 23 Table of Contents protection for the technology used in our system or services, and protection that is secured may be challenged and possibly lost. Our inability to protect our intellectual property adequately for these and other reasons could result in weakened demand for our system or services, which would result in a decline in our revenues. We could become subject to litigation regarding intellectual property rights, which could harm our business significantly. Our commercial success will continue to depend in part on our ability to make and sell our system or provide our services without infringing the patents or proprietary rights of third parties. Our competitors, many of which have substantially greater resources than us and have made significant investments in competing technologies or products, may seek to apply for and obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make or sell our system or provide our services. If we are unsuccessful in any challenge to our rights to market and sell our system or to provide our services, we may, among other things, be required to: • pay actual damages, royalties, lost profits and/or increased damages and the third party’s attorneys’ fees, which may be substantial; • cease the development, manufacture and/or sale of our system or the provision of services that use the intellectual property in question through a court-imposed sanction called an injunction; • expend significant resources to modify or redesign our system or other technology or services so that they do not infringe others’ intellectual property rights or to develop or acquire non-infringing technology, which may not be possible; or • obtain licenses to the disputed rights, which could require us to pay substantial upfront fees and future royalty payments and may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Even if we successfully defend any infringement claims, the expense, time, delay and burden on management of litigation could prevent us from maintaining or increasing our business. Further, negative publicity could decrease demand for our systems and services and cause our revenues to decline, thus harming our operating results significantly. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology, system and services could be harmed significantly. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information in operating our business. We seek to protect this information, in part, through the use of confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, advisors and others upon commencement of their relationships with us. These agreements require that all confidential information developed by the individual or made known to the individual by us during the course of the individual’s relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. Our agreements with employees also provide that any inventions conceived by the individual in the course of rendering services to us shall be our exclusive property. Nonetheless, those agreements may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information and prevent their unauthorized use or disclosure. In the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets or proprietary information, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection, particularly for our trade secrets or other confidential information. To the extent that consultants, key employees or other third parties apply technological information independently developed by them or by others to our proposed products, disputes may arise as to the proprietary rights to such information which may not be resolved in our favor. The risk that other parties may breach confidentiality agreements or that our trade secrets become known or independently discovered by competitors, could harm us by enabling our competitors, who may have greater experience and financial resources, to copy or 24 Table of Contents use our trade secrets and other proprietary information in the advancement of their products, methods or technologies. The disclosure of our trade secrets would impair our competitive position, thereby weakening demand for our system or services and harming our ability to maintain or increase our customer base. Risks Related to Our Industry We are subject to environmental risks that may prevent us from selling our system and, if such risks are realized, may subject us to clean-up costs or litigation that could adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects. Our technology relies primarily on the ion exchange process, which ultimately generates a byproduct known as brine waste. Our customers will be required to dispose of any waste materials or byproducts from our treatment process in a manner mandated by the EPA or state regulatory agencies. The EPA or state regulatory agencies may consider these or other byproducts of the ion exchange process to be hazardous, and in such cases, our customers will be subject to additional requirements relating to the treatment, storage, disposal and transportation of hazardous substances. Though our customers take title to all such brine waste, together with all other byproducts of the ion exchange technology process, we generally contract with third parties to secure waste disposal services on our customers’ behalf. We cannot predict whether any new laws, statutes, ordinances, rules or regulations will be enacted that may require significant modification to our system or our services, which may weaken demand for our system or services and harm our business significantly. In addition, we cannot predict whether any third party will assert against us any claims for violations of any federal, state or local statute, ordinance, law, rule or regulation relating to hazardous or toxic substances in connection with the brine waste or groundwater treatment process or as a result of any actions of the third-party waste disposal services with whom we contract on behalf of our customers. Furthermore, CERCLA and analogous state laws provide for the remediation of certain contaminated facilities and impose strict, joint and several liability for remediation costs on current and former owners or operators of a facility at which there has been a release or a threatened release of a “hazardous substance.” This liability is also imposed on persons who arrange for the disposal or transportation of such substances, and on those who transport such substances to the facility. Hundreds of substances are defined as “hazardous” under CERCLA and analogous state laws and their presence, even in small amounts, can result in substantial liability. The expense of conducting a cleanup can be significant. The actual costs for these liabilities could be significantly greater than the amounts that we might be required to accrue on our financial statements from time to time. In addition to the costs of complying with environmental regulations, we may incur costs to defend against litigation brought by government agencies and private parties. As a result, we may be required to pay fines if we are found to have violated these environmental laws. We may in the future be a defendant in lawsuits brought by governmental agencies and private parties who assert claims alleging environmental damage, natural resource damages, personal injury, property damage and/or violations of permits and licenses by us. If such claims are asserted against us, and if we do not prevail in defending such claims, we may be required to pay significant damages, causing our financial condition to suffer. Even if we successfully defend against such claims, we may devote significant time and resources to litigation, which would likely prevent us from maintaining or increasing our customer base and business. Changes in governmental regulation and other legal uncertainties could adversely affect our customers or decrease demand for our systems, and thus harm our business, operating results and prospects. In the United States, many different federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the treatment and distribution of contaminated groundwater and disposal of attendant wastes. The increased interest in the treatment of contaminated groundwater due to increased media attention on the adverse health effects from contaminated drinking water may result in intervention by the EPA or state regulatory agencies under existing or newly enacted legislation and in the imposition of restrictions, fees or charges on users and providers of products and services in this area. These restrictions, fees or charges could adversely affect our customers, which could negatively affect our revenues. Conversely, the failure of the EPA or state regulatory agencies to act on a timely 25 Table of Contents basis to set interim or permanent standards for pollutants such as MCLs, or to delay effective dates for standards for pollutants, grant waivers of compliance with such standards or take other discretionary actions not to enforce these standards, may decrease demand for our system and services because our customers would not be required to bring their water into compliance with such regulatory standards. While we are not aware of any currently proposed federal regulation directly affecting our business, we cannot predict whether there will be future legislation regarding the treatment and distribution of contaminated groundwater and the disposal of attendant wastes. If there are significant changes in such laws and regulations, such changes could weaken demand for our system or services and cause our revenues to decline, thus harming our operating results and prospects. Each groundwater treatment solution must be permitted by a regulatory agency prior to its use by our customers, and changing drinking water standards and other factors could affect the approval process with respect to our system by such regulatory agencies. Each groundwater treatment solution, including our groundwater treatment system and those of our competitors, must be permitted by applicable state regulatory agencies prior to use of such systems by our customers. We cannot assure you when or whether the various regulatory agencies will approve our system for use by our customers. The application process for our system is time consuming and often involves several information requests by the regulatory agencies with respect to our system. Any long waiting periods or difficulties faced by our customers in the application process could cause some of our customers to use competing technologies, products, services or sources of drinking water, rather than use our technology. Also, we cannot predict the impact of changing drinking water standards on the approval of our technology for groundwater treatment. Our system currently treats groundwater so that it meets the MCL for several different contaminants. MCLs are set by the EPA and/or state regulatory agencies that regulate drinking water contaminants. However, the MCL for any contaminant is subject to review and revision by the EPA or state regulatory agencies. MCLs may be changed to levels below that which our system can treat, resulting in state regulatory agencies failing to approve our system. Without regulatory approval, our system could not be used by our customers, and we may be required to develop technology that meets any revised MCLs, and to the extent we cannot do so, sales of our system will suffer. The development of such technology may require increased expenditures, and during this development, we could be delayed in selling our system, which would cause our revenues to decline, thus harming our operating results significantly. Demand for our groundwater treatment systems would be adversely affected by a downturn in government spending related to groundwater treatment solutions, or in the cyclical residential or non-residential building markets. Our business is dependent upon spending on groundwater treatment solutions by utilities, municipalities and other organizations that supply water, which in turn is often dependent upon residential construction, population growth, continued contamination of groundwater sources and regulatory responses to this contamination. As a result, demand for our water treatment systems could be impacted adversely by general budgetary constraints on our governmental or regulated customers, including government spending cuts, the inability of government entities to issue debt to finance any necessary groundwater treatment projects, difficulty of our customers in obtaining necessary permits or changes in regulatory limits associated with the chemical contaminants we seek to address with our groundwater treatment system. It is not unusual for the implementation of water treatment solutions to be delayed and rescheduled for a number of reasons, including changes in project priorities and difficulties in complying with environmental and other government regulations. If implementation of water treatment solutions are delayed or rescheduled by our regulated customers, these customers would not have as great a need for our systems. We cannot assure you that economic conditions will continue such that state and local governments will address groundwater contaminant needs and consider purchasing or entering into long-term contracts for our systems. In addition, although our target markets have experienced population growth in recent years along with related residential building market growth, we cannot assure you that this growth will 26 Table of Contents continue in the future. A slowdown of growth in residential and non-residential building would reduce demand for drinking water and for groundwater treatment solutions such as our system. The residential and non-residential building markets are generally cyclical, and, historically, down cycles have typically lasted a number of years. Any significant decline in the governmental spending on groundwater treatment solutions or residential or non-residential building markets could weaken demand for our system or services, thus harming our operating results and prospects significantly. We operate in a competitive market, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our business, operating results and prospects could suffer. The market environment in which we operate is very dynamic and is characterized by evolving standards, the development of new technology, regulations which continually reduce the acceptable levels for contaminants and affect the means, methods and costs of disposing of wastes derived from groundwater treatment. Though barriers to entry in this market are high, we expect that competition from existing market participants will intensify in the future. We believe that in such a rapidly changing market, key competitive factors include: • development and use of technology; • effectiveness of treatment and brine waste disposal methods; • changing requirements of the EPA or state regulatory agencies; and • the availability of capital to meet evolving customer needs and requirements for the treatment of contaminated water. We compete with large groundwater treatment companies, such as Severn Trent PLC and USFilter Corporation, a subsidiary of Siemens AG. Our competition varies according to the contaminant being removed. Many of our current and potential competitors have technical and financial resources, marketing and service organizations, and market expertise significantly greater than ours. Many of our competitors also have longer operating histories, greater name recognition and larger customer bases. Moreover, our competitors may forecast the course of market developments more accurately and could in the future develop new technologies that compete with our system and/or services or even render our system and/or services obsolete. Due to the evolving markets in which we compete, additional competitors with significant market presence and financial resources may enter those markets, thereby further increasing competition. These competitors may be able to reduce our market share by adopting more aggressive pricing policies than we can or by developing technology and services that gain wider market acceptance than our system and/or services. Existing and potential competitors also may develop relationships with distributors of our system and services or third parties with whom we have strategic relationships in a manner that could harm our ability to sell, market and develop our system and services significantly. If we do not compete successfully we may never achieve significant market penetration and we may be unable to maintain or increase our business or revenues, causing our operating results and prospects to suffer. We could become subject to litigation as a result of claims brought against our customers, which could harm our operating results and financial condition significantly. Our customers are water providers that supply drinking water treated by our system to the general public. If our customers faced claims from consumers related to the quality of the drinking water, such consumers also may bring claims against any other party with whom the customer contracted in the groundwater treatment process. Even if our system treated the groundwater successfully for the contaminants it was designed to remove, we still may be subject to claims from such consumers. Despite any success in defending such claims, the expense, time, delay and burden on management of litigation would likely prevent us from maintaining or increasing our business and negative publicity could weaken demand for our services, cause our revenues to decline and harm our operating results and financial condition significantly. 27 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Finances and Capital Requirements We will need additional capital to sustain and grow our business and we cannot provide any assurances that additional financing will be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. We expect that our current cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to fund our anticipated future growth and operations for the foreseeable future. We cannot guarantee you that we will not need additional capital to finance our growth and operations or to accelerate our expected growth over the next 12-month period. We have based our estimate of liquidity needs on assumptions that may prove to be incorrect, and we may spend our available financial resources much faster than we currently anticipate. Adequate funds, whether obtained through financial markets or collaborative or other arrangements with water providers, corporate partners or from other sources, may not be available when needed or on terms acceptable to us. We also may need to raise additional funds in order to fund more rapid expansion, to develop new and enhanced technologies, to respond to competitive pressures or to acquire complementary technologies or assets. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of additional common stock, other equity securities or indebtedness, the percentage ownership of our then-current shareholders may be diluted substantially and the equity or debt securities issued to new investors may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the holders of our then-existing capital stock. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop new products or services or otherwise respond to competitive pressures. Such inability could prevent us from maintaining or increasing our business, result in significant harm to our financial condition and prospects and negatively affect our stock price. Our indebtedness contains terms that place restrictions on the operation of our business; our failure to comply with these terms could put us in default, which would harm our business and operations. Our indebtedness that is currently outstanding under our $2.0 million note to Aqua America, which we refer to as our Aqua Note, contains a number of significant covenants. These covenants limit our ability to, among other things, do the following: • incur additional indebtedness; • merge, consolidate or dispose of our assets; • pay dividends or repurchase our capital stock; • change our line of business; • accept any prepayments under or otherwise modify contracts with our customers; • enter into transactions with our affiliates; and • grant liens on our assets. A material breach of any of these covenants would result in a default under this indebtedness. In the event there is a default under our indebtedness, if the lender accelerates the indebtedness and we are unable to pay such amounts, the lender has the right to foreclose on all of our assets because the indebtedness is secured by all of those assets. We have recorded and will record non-cash expense in future periods that result in a decrease in our net income for a given period. The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, has adopted a new accounting pronouncement requiring the recording of expense for the fair value of stock options granted. As a result, effective January 1, 2006, we have changed our accounting policy to record expense for the fair value of stock options granted and our operating expenses have increased. We rely on stock options to motivate current employees and attract new 28 Table of Contents employees. As a result of the requirement to expense stock options, we may choose to reduce our reliance on stock options as a motivation tool. If we reduce our use of stock options, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified employees. However, if we do not reduce our reliance on stock options, our reported net loss may increase or our reported net income may decrease. We have also applied the provisions of SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, to warrants issued to lenders and other third parties including Cross Atlantic Partners, Aqua America and BWCA. The fair value of these warrants is expensed over the period of the related agreements, as appropriate. As a result, we recognized expense in 2005 and 2006, and will recognize expense during future periods for a substantial portion of the fair value of these warrants, which affects our interest expense or selling, general and administrative expense, depending upon the nature of the underlying transaction. Early repayment of any indebtedness related to these warrants or early completion of the other agreements under which the warrants were issued will accelerate the recognition of this expense. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and may not be able to report financial results accurately. We have identified several material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. We cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses, significant deficiencies and control deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. We have incurred and expect to incur substantial expenses relating to the remediation of the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Our accounting and financial reporting functions may not have, or may be unable to maintain, adequate resources to ensure that we will not have any future significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our system of internal control over financial reporting. The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting may in the future be limited by a variety of factors including: • faulty human judgment and simple errors, omissions or mistakes; • inappropriate management override of policies and procedures; • failure to properly implement our upgraded financial software system; and • the possibility that any enhancements to disclosure controls and procedures may still not be adequate to assure timely and accurate financial information. If we fail to achieve and maintain effective controls and procedures for financial reporting, we could be unable to provide timely and accurate financial information which may cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have an adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock and lead to delisting from the Nasdaq Global Market, an investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and civil or criminal sanctions. Additionally, ineffective internal control over financial reporting would place us at increased risk of fraud or misuse of corporate assets. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We expect that the price of our common stock will fluctuate substantially. The price of our common stock may decline, and the price of our common stock that prevails in the market may be higher or lower than the price you pay, depending on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Factors that could cause fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock include: • failure of our system or technology to achieve commercial success; • announcements of the introduction of new products or services by us or our competitors; • market conditions in our industry sector; 29 Table of Contents • developments concerning product development results or intellectual property rights of others; • litigation or public concern about the safety of our system and services; • actual and anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • securities analyst coverage of our common stock; • deviations in our operating results from the estimates of securities analysts or other analyst comments; • additions or departures of key personnel; • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; • general economic trends; or • sales of large blocks of our stock. In addition, the equity markets in general, and the Nasdaq Global Market in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Further, the market prices of securities of water-related companies have been particularly volatile. These broad market and industry factors may affect the market price of our common stock adversely, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class-action litigation often has been instituted against that company. This type of litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents, as amended and restated, and under Delaware law could delay or discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. Some of these provisions include: • a board of directors divided into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; • a prohibition on stockholder action through written consent; • a requirement that special meetings of stockholders be called only by the chairman of our board of directors, the chief executive officer, the president or by a majority of the total number of authorized directors; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; • a requirement of approval of not less than 66 2/3% of all outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote to amend any bylaws by stockholder action, or to amend specific provisions of our certificate of incorporation; and • the authority of our board of directors to issue preferred stock on terms determined by our board of directors without stockholder approval. In addition, because we are a Delaware corporation, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by the then-current board of directors, including to delay or impede a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving our company. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. 30 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 