Risk Factors.” Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Also, forward-looking statements represent our management’s beliefs and assumptions only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should read this Annual Report on Form 10-K completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. We assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements publicly, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Basin Water, Inc. is a provider of reliable, long-term process solutions for a range of customers, which include designing, building, implementing, and servicing systems for the treatment of contaminated groundwater, the treatment of wastewater, waste reduction and resource recovery. In 2007, we derived most of our revenues from designing, assembling and servicing our proprietary ion-exchange systems for the treatment of contaminated groundwater for use as drinking water. Also, in 2007, we launched major initiatives, both external and internal, to facilitate our transformation into a water services company focused on development of our technology+services business model. Using this model, we seek opportunities to combine proprietary or specialized technologies with long-term relationships built through performance-based service agreements to meet groundwater treatment, industrial water and wastewater treatment and resource recovery needs. By expanding the array of technologies we offer through our technology+services model beyond our proprietary ion-exchange technology, we believe we can expand the potential pool of customers, markets and geographic areas for our services. While we have commenced a number of new initiatives in the past year, we continue to derive substantially all of our revenues from our proprietary, ion-exchange, onsite regenerable treatment system. That system reduces groundwater contaminant levels in what we believe is an efficient, flexible and cost-effective manner. Our system produces what we believe are very low waste rates, can meet a wide range of volume requirements and is capable of removing multiple chemical contaminants at a single site. These systems regenerate the resin by using a salt brine solution to remove the contaminants from the resin so that it can be used again in the ion-exchange process. We market these systems to utilities, cities, municipalities, special districts, real estate developers and other organizations for use in treating groundwater that does not comply with federal or state drinking water regulations due to the presence of chemical contaminants. We are defining our municipal market opportunities in each of five geographic regions and our industrial market opportunities on a national basis. In the West, our company’s historic base, rapid population growth and decreasing drinking water supplies continue to provide opportunities for our technology and services. In addition, we believe that concerns over specific contaminants throughout the country will also provide opportunities for our technology and services, such as for treatment of the chemical contaminants. Building on our success in the market for treating groundwater to be used for drinking water, we are taking steps to become a next generation water services company that succeeds by combining the strengths of our existing businesses and employees with the offering of cutting edge technology and site-tailored solutions. We plan to employ this model across a broad range of treatment scenarios in municipal and industrial water markets. We make available free of charge through our internet website our press releases, this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all other required filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and amendments thereto as soon as reasonably practical after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Our internet website also contains our Code of Ethics. Our principal executive offices are located at 8731 Prestige Court, Rancho Cucamonga, California 91730, and our telephone number is (909) 481-6800. Our website address is www.basinwater.com. The information on our website is neither part of nor incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Company History Originally incorporated in California in 1999, Basin Water reincorporated in Delaware in connection with our initial public offering which was completed in May 2006. Our operations from 1999 until 2001 consisted 2 Table of Contents primarily of research and development activities, as we developed our proprietary ion-exchange process. Our proprietary process was conceived by Peter L. Jensen, our founder and former Chief Executive Officer, and the late Dr. Gerald Guter, who served as our Chief Scientific Officer. Also during this time, we developed a groundwater treatment system for commercialization of our proprietary process and increased our personnel to include additional engineers and sales and marketing personnel. We successfully completed a prototype for our groundwater treatment system in May 2002, and shortly thereafter, we assisted one of our customers in submitting an application with the California Department of Health Services (DHS) for a permit to operate our system for treatment of nitrate. In June 2002, our customer received the first permit from DHS for operation of our system to treat groundwater. We also received our first revenues in 2002 from sales of our groundwater treatment system and operations. From 2002 through 2006, we focused on developing systems that could treat other contaminants, increasing our engineering workforce, developing our sales and marketing force, obtaining patents, and improving our internal finance and accounting capabilities. Beginning in the last quarter of 2006, and continuing throughout 2007, we have focused on becoming a more diversified and predictable growth company by developing our technology+services business model and also implementing internal and external initiatives. Our internal initiatives included: • Recruiting top personnel with an emphasis on people with experience in the water and wastewater industries or in combining technology with performance-based service agreements; • Expanding beyond our base of municipal customers (such as utilities, special districts, municipalities and other similar organizations) to include potential customers in the industrial marketplace (such as oil and gas, power, mining and chemical companies); • Installing business and financial systems to accommodate our growth and new system and service initiatives; • Developing regional sales, process engineering and field service groups aligned with both our municipal and industrial marketplace customers; and • Developing our technology+services offering to include the treatment of a variety of organic and inorganic contaminants. Our external initiatives included the Mobile Process Technology, Co. acquisition, and entering into a strategic alliance with Rohm and Haas Chemicals LLC, among others. Market Opportunity Demand for drinking water treatment technologies and services. Population growth has resulted in increased demand for drinking water in much of the United States. This is a problem throughout the United States but is particularly acute in California and other states in the southwest United States, which we refer to as the arid West, where population growth and chronic shortages of drinking water have resulted in rapidly increasing demand for drinking water. Though we believe groundwater is a cost-effective and advantageous source of water supply, it is at substantial risk of contamination from a number of chemical contaminants; such as arsenic, nitrate, perchlorate, radium, chromium VI, uranium and radionuclides, as well as organic contaminants, such as methyl tertiary-butyl ether (MTBE), trichloroethylene (TCE) and perchloroethylene (PCE), which have been linked to various cancers, diseases, metabolic disorders and other health problems. Because of these health concerns, the Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, and state regulatory agencies have been active in establishing and lowering 3 Table of Contents maximum containment levels, or MCLs, for contaminants in drinking water to ensure that the public has access to a safe drinking water supply. In addition, improvements in water testing and treatment technologies have allowed the EPA and state regulatory agencies to lower the MCL for certain contaminants. We believe that a large market opportunity exists in providing a solution for treatment of groundwater for drinking water. There are few economically attractive alternatives for treating groundwater at the wellhead. Customarily, water providers either shut down a contaminated well or blend the water with non-contaminated water to meet an MCL. Ion-exchange technology is acknowledged as a leading technology for groundwater treatment, including being designated by the DHS and EPA as a “best available technology” for treating groundwater for removal of contaminants. As compared to our ion-exchange technology, many existing contaminant treatment technologies are costly, produce large amounts of waste, or are generally designed for large industrial installations rather than for wellhead treatment. We believe there is significant demand for cost-effective groundwater treatment using our ion-exchange technology. We are actively pursuing opportunities to introduce our groundwater treatments systems across the United States where the opportunity exists to provide our technology+services offerings. Demand for technology+services costs. We believe our technology+services offerings can be valuable to municipal and industrial customers. We believe there is demand by our customers for an offering that includes our technology combined with a long-term services agreement to provide services and maintenance with our performance guarantee for the life of the agreement. Demand for wastewater treatment, water reuse and the recovery of valuable commodities. We also believe there is demand for industrial wastewater treatment, water reuse and metals and commodities recovery systems and services. Many industrial facilities face increasingly stringent discharge requirements for industrial wastewater, driving demand for technological solutions like ours for wastewater treatment. We also believe that demand exists for applications through which our customers can reuse and recycle wastewater for process water needed for manufacturing or other industrial uses. Furthermore, in light of the high cost of metals and other materials, we believe there is demand for technologies that are able to recover valuable commodities from wastewater streams. Our Solution and Strengths Basin Water onsite regenerable ion-exchange. Our proprietary onsite regenerable ion-exchange system is designed to treat groundwater contamination at the wellhead. We believe our multiple-bed system provides a safe, reliable and sustainable source of drinking water to our customers. Our system effectively treats water resulting in low waste rates, can be scaled to meet a customer’s requirements and has a small footprint. These systems are designed using the Basin Water IX Program and are installed with telemetry to allow independent functionality. Approximately 95% of our revenues in 2007 were derived from sales and service related to these systems. Our expanded technologies. We have made concerted efforts to expand our technology portfolio beyond proprietary onsite regenerable ion-exchange technology. While our ion-exchange technology continues to have great potential in a variety of applications in the groundwater treatment market, we believe that additional opportunities exist for ion-exchange and absorptive media systems utilizing alternative methods of regeneration or media handling, and also technologies that can remove organic contaminants from water. Therefore, during 2007 we sought out and acquired the rights to ion-exchange technologies and other technologies that would enable us to address these opportunities through our September 2007 acquisition of Mobile Process Technology Co., which we refer to as MPT (see Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements), our November 2007 strategic alliance with a wholly owned subsidiary of Rohm and Haas Company named Rohm and Haas Chemicals, LLC, which we refer to as Rohm and Haas, and our 2007 agreement with Purifics ES Inc., which we refer to as Purifics, a licensed engineering firm headquartered in London, Ontario, Canada. In addition, we have developed a proprietary process, which we refer to as the BIONExchange™ process, for biologically removing 4 Table of Contents and destroying the perchlorate loading from exhausted ion-exchange resins. This process can also be used to remove and destroy perchlorate from brine resulting from regeneration of the ion-exchange resins. We believe these expanded technologies will enable us to address a large market of potential customers. Our experienced management team. One of our developing strengths is our management team. Beginning in late 2006 and continuing throughout 2007, we bolstered our existing management team by hiring veterans from the water industry as well as other leading industries that have experience with technology and service offering business models. Most notably, our President and Chief Executive Officer joined Basin Water in October 2006 and brought the knowledge and experience to develop our business model. In addition, we hired four senior managers all of whom had past experience in the water, wastewater and other related industries. We believe the management team we have assembled has significantly strengthened our ability to achieve our goal to develop and implement our technology+services business model. Our Strategy Next generation water services company. In our view, water treatment companies who are able to profitably offer predictable, competitive life-cycle costs will become the “next generation” of water treatment companies. Our goal is to define, test and then implement the strategies necessary to become a “next generation” water services company. To do that we believe we must develop offerings and select opportunities that will generally involve pairing a proprietary or specialized technology with a service agreement to meet a defined set of customer needs. To date we have made significant progress as a leading provider of groundwater treatment systems and services to our customers throughout the United States, with an initial focus on the arid West. We expect to continue to expand our business and achieve these goals through the following strategies: Develop and implement our technology+services model. We have developed and will now implement our technology+services business model that combines proprietary or specialized technologies with long-term relationships built through performance-based service agreements to meet groundwater treatment, industrial water and wastewater treatment, and resource recovery needs. Extend our business and geographic reach throughout the United States. We intend to expand our business reach beyond the arid West into all areas of the United States. Our expansion plans include the creation of five regions (West, Southwest, Southeast, Great Lakes and Northeast) encompassing all of the continental United States to serve as our marketing, sales and technical services platforms for municipal customers within each of those regions. Marketing to municipal customers typically requires a local presence within the customer’s geographic region. In 2007, we began an internal organizational change and expansion through the assignment of dedicated management, sales, marketing, and technical support to certain of these regions. In addition to our West regional office in Rancho Cucamonga, we now have a footprint in the Southeast with our facility in Memphis, and will have a new Southwest regional office in Houston by mid-2008. We currently have a sales presence in the Great Lakes and the Northeast and are developing plans to open regional offices there in 2008 and 2009. We believe sales and marketing teams at the local level will be more effective because of their knowledge of and relationships with the municipalities within their region. We expect marketing to industrial customers to be more effective on a nationwide basis from one central location. Thus, for our industrial customers, we have a national sales and marketing team supported by our Memphis facility. Expand our business by continuing to develop strategic relationships with companies serving and supplying the water industry on a national basis. We have identified and will continue to identify companies servicing and supplying the water industry on a national basis that can provide strategic benefits to the marketing of our groundwater treatment system. As part of this strategy, we have entered into a strategic alliance agreement with Rohm and Haas. We believe that by partnering with companies like Rohm and Haas, we can efficiently leverage their existing infrastructure to provide our technology+services offering in new markets. 5 Table of Contents Our Technology and Services Our ion-exchange treatment systems. Our groundwater treatment services generally utilize our ion-exchange technology. To treat contaminated groundwater, the water is pumped from the wellhead into our system which contains a bed of ion-exchange resin. Through the ion-exchange process, the contaminants remain on the resin while the clean water exits the system and enters the drinking water distribution system. This process continues until the resin inside the bed is saturated with contaminants. We offer our customers three types of ion-exchange treatment systems—onsite regenerable systems, offsite regeneration systems, and disposable resin systems. The primary difference among these three types of system is how resin is used in the treatment process. For our onsite regenerable system, once the resin bed is saturated with contaminants, sometimes referred to as being spent or exhausted, a saturated salt brine solution is pumped into the tank which regenerates the resin onsite. For our offsite regeneration systems, we remove the spent resin to be regenerated offsite, and replenish the system with regenerated resin. The spent resin is transported for processing, such as at our Memphis central regeneration facility. There the resin is regenerated to be returned to service at the customer’s site. For some contaminants, such as radionuclides, regeneration is not feasible. In those situations we use a disposable resin system whereby we dispose of the resin in accordance with the particular regulation applicable to the contaminant being removed. We manufacture our ion-exchange treatment systems on a build-to-order basis using raw materials from suppliers typically located in the United States and from predominantly “off-the-shelf” components for which there are generally multiple suppliers. We manufacture our onsite regenerable and disposable ion-exchange treatment systems at our facility in Rancho Cucamonga, California and our offsite regenerable systems at our facility in Memphis, Tennessee. As of December 31, 2007, eight onsite regenerable ion exchange treatment systems were in process at our Rancho Cucamonga location, and no systems were in process at our Memphis location. Our customers must obtain a license and/or a permit from the applicable state regulatory agency in order to operate each system that we install at their wellheads. We work with our customers to secure required licenses and permits from state regulatory agencies, including assisting with the completion of the license or permit application and responding to inquiries or requests from these regulators regarding our system. Our onsite regenerable, and certain disposable media treatment systems, use a multiple-bed system design, providing flexibility to meet different volume requirements. These systems allow resin beds to be sequenced in and out of service to optimize performance and offer users a wide range of production rates up to 12,000 gpm. Typically our systems are installed adjacent to a wellhead. The systems use the well pump’s pressure to move water through the ion-exchange process. Our onsite regenerable systems require at least one waste brine tank to be placed onsite. The brine tank is connected to a waste line that allows for a contracted waste removal company to remove the brine without entering the well site. For our offsite regenerable systems, which service low flow wells, there is no onsite brine tank. Instead, we remove the resin vessel from the customer’s site for regeneration at our facility. During the course of the groundwater treatment process, we do not take ownership of the water or title to the waste generated from the treatment of water, with the potential exception for recovery of valuable materials from the waste generated which we may then sell to third parties. All of our onsite regenerable systems and some of our offsite regenerable systems and disposable resin systems are fully automatic and use a Program Logic Controller, or PLC, that runs advanced control programs to maximize treatment system performance and reliability while also minimizing waste products. Our technology+services offering. The exact technology+services offering we use in a given situation is dependent upon the customer’s needs. Our most frequently offered technology to date is our onsite regenerable 6 Table of Contents ion-exchange system, which we incorporate into our offering by combining our treatment system with an ongoing services agreement. This agreement incorporates a variety of services requested by our customers. For our offsite regenerable systems and disposable resin systems, our service component might include such services as replacing media, conducting vessel exchanges on a periodic basis as the resin becomes exhausted, performing regeneration services at our central facility in Memphis, periodic testing of the system and ongoing support as required to optimize system operations. We anticipate that service contracts for our expanded technology portfolio may include services similar to those listed above, and may also include the management of site-based operations involving a treatment system. Customers Historically, we have marketed our ion-exchange treatment systems and services to groundwater customers that included utilities, municipalities, cities and other organizations that supply drinking water. By enhancing our technology+services offerings to include smaller ion-exchange treatment systems, offsite regeneration and organic removal capabilities, we believe we have significantly expanded our potential customer base in the municipal market. This expansion of our offerings also addresses industrial customers’ needs for wastewater treatment, water reuse and the recovery of valuable commodities from wastewater streams including for oil and gas, power, mining and chemical companies. As of December 31, 2007, we had a total of 79 systems on order or under contract with 25 different customers (not including approximately 200 small customers from our Memphis facility), of which 48 systems are installed, permitted and can process water. Five systems are awaiting regulatory permits with the remaining 26 systems in various stages of contracting or manufacturing. These 79 systems on order or under contract nationwide represent an aggregate installed capacity of approximately 113,000 acre-feet per year, or approximately 36.9 billion gallons per year. The following customers accounted for more than 10% of our revenues in the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 VL Capital, LLC 26 % * * Water Services Solutions, LLC 14 % * * Baldy Mesa Water District (Victorville) 13 % 30 % * Shaw Environmental, Inc. * 17 % 11 % Arizona American Water Company * * 12 % Del Valle Capital Corp. * * 14 % Coachella Valley Water District(1) * * 34 % Totals 53 % 47 % 71 % * Indicates a less than 10% customer during such period. (1) We are parties to an arrangement pursuant to which Shaw provided site work, bonding and other services to Coachella Valley Water District. As of December 31, 2007, our revenues backlog was $73.0 million, a decrease of $5.9 million, or 7%, compared to our revenues backlog of $78.9 million at December 31, 2006. 7 Table of Contents Competition We believe successful competition in our industry and markets is dependent on the following factors: (1) superior technology and (2) customer relationships. Superior technology is an important factor for competition in our industry. The EPA has reviewed and accepted certain well-established technologies for use in drinking water applications and designated them as “best available technology”. Ion-exchange technology has already been designated as a “best available technology” by the EPA and by many state regulatory agencies. Ion-exchange technology is also frequently sought for industrial applications. We believe our rights to proprietary technologies provide us a competitive advantage in the municipal and industrial markets. There are significant competitive challenges even for companies relying on superior and cost-effective technologies. There are a large number of established and well-capitalized companies that already implement cost-effective technologies such as ion exchange in their solutions, and many of these large companies have strong and longstanding relationships with customers in the marketplace. We believe these relationships are critical in establishing credibility and in maintaining steady business. This is particularly true in the municipal market where a local presence and knowledge of the region contributes to a company’s ability to effectively market its services to municipalities. We are developing relationships with municipal customers on a local basis by implementing our regional structure. We believe our geographic expansion plans, placing our marketing and sales force closer to our customer locations, coupled with the ongoing interactions between our field service force and customers, also provide us with a competitive advantage. Having regional offices will enable our marketing teams to develop closer ties with those existing and prospective customers within the region. For those existing customers, our field services staff is often our onsite ambassadors who are able to spot and kindle future opportunities to increase the number of systems, or expand on our existing services at an existing customer site. Finally, many of our current and potential competitors have significantly stronger financial resources, larger marketing and service organizations and significantly greater market expertise than we have. However, we believe that we compete favorably based on the efficacy of our proprietary technology, our newly acquired technological expertise, our technology+services business model, and our significant relationships with our customers. In addition, we believe we also compete favorably based on lower operational costs, lower waste production, range of contaminants that can be treated, smaller system footprint and enhanced customer service. Sales and Marketing We market our technology+services offerings through a direct sales force, independent contractors and strategic relationships. In addition, members of our management team leverage their numerous business contacts to capitalize on opportunities to sell our technology+services offerings. Regulatory changes also trigger sales opportunities. For example, in 2006 and 2007, changes in MCLs, especially arsenic and radium, have caused customers to seek solutions such as ours to assist in their efforts to keep their groundwater supplies in compliance with regulatory standards. As a result, we periodically receive inquiries and are asked for referrals about our systems and services. Finally, our existing client base refers our services to other water providers. We also secure business through a procurement bid process in which we compete with others in qualification and proposal processes. We are in the process of expanding our sales and marketing efforts beyond the arid West into all areas of the United States. Our expansion plans include the creation of five geographic regions (West, Southwest, Southeast, Great Lakes and Northeast) encompassing all of the continental United States to serve as our marketing, sales and technical services platforms for municipal customers within each of those regions. This expansion should assist our marketing efforts, because marketing to municipal customers typically requires a local presence within 8 Table of Contents the customer’s geographic region. In 2007, we made organizational changes to assign dedicated management, sales and service, marketing, and technical support to certain of these regions. In addition to our West regional office in Rancho Cucamonga, we now have a footprint in the Southeast with our facility in Memphis, and we expect to have a new Southwest regional office in Houston by mid 2008. We currently have a sales presence in the Great Lakes and the Northeast, and plan to open regional offices there in 2008 and 2009. We believe sales and marketing teams at the local level will be more effective because of their knowledge of and relationships with the municipalities within their region. We expect marketing to industrial customers to be more effective on a nationwide basis from one central location. Thus, for our industrial customers, we have a national sales and marketing team supported out of our Memphis facility. We have expanded our sales and marketing efforts through strategic relationships, including the Rohm and Haas alliance and the agreement with Purifics. Our sales team plans to use Rohm and Haas’ expertise and contacts in the water treatment industry to develop and manage our relationships with customers and our strategic relationships. Rohm and Haas Alliance Rohm and Haas Company is a global company that develops advanced materials for customers around the world. Its business spans the world: North America, Latin America, Europe, Middle East, Africa, and Asia-Pacific, with more than 100 manufacturing, technical research and customer service sites in 27 countries. It had annual sales of approximately US $9 billion in 2007. It is a publicly owned company whose stock is traded under the “ROH” symbol on the New York Stock Exchange. On November 14, 2007, we entered into an exclusive alliance with Rohm and Haas to provide technology solutions and service offerings in both the drinking water market and certain areas of the industrial market. We expect the alliance to also develop new technology to address other groundwater treatment issues, such as produced water from oil and gas operations and emerging water recovery applications. Each member of the alliance will contribute its respective core strengths to the alliance: Rohm and Haas its research and development capabilities, global infrastructure and ion exchange resins and our company its systems designs, channels to market and service capabilities. We expect the alliance to initially market offerings in the United States and Canada using our technology+services business model to provide guaranteed performance and guaranteed costs over the lifetime of a project. As part of the alliance, we have exclusive access to Rohm and Haas ion-exchange resin technology for certain selected markets. The initial term of the alliance is five years. The parties agreed to renew the alliance agreement if at the end of the initial term the alliance has met projected budget, earnings and growth projections. Shaw Agreement Our agreement with Shaw Environmental Inc., or Shaw, expired on December 9, 2007. We continue to work with Shaw on various projects on a case-by-case basis, but as a result of the expiration of the agreement with Shaw we have now reacquired rights to market our arsenic treating systems in all territories to which Shaw had previously been granted exclusive rights. Government Regulation Our customers are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations concerning emissions to the air, discharges to waterways and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials and also are subject to other federal and state laws regarding health and safety matters. Under the contracts with our customers, we assist them in meeting these regulations and obtaining any required permits and/or licenses in order to implement our system. These laws and regulations are constantly evolving, and it is difficult to predict the effect these laws and regulations may have on us or our customers in the future. 9 Table of Contents In the United States, many different federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the treatment and distribution of contaminated groundwater and disposal of attendant wastes. Changes in such laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. The increased interest in the treatment of contaminated groundwater due to increased attention on the adverse health effects from contaminated drinking water may result in intervention by governmental regulatory agencies in the United States or elsewhere under existing or newly enacted legislation and in the imposition of restrictions, fees or charges on users and providers of products and services in this area. Conversely, the failure of the EPA or state regulatory agencies to act on a timely basis to set interim or permanent standards for pollutants, or to delay effective dates for standards for pollutants, grant waivers of compliance with such standards or take other discretionary actions not to enforce these standards, may decrease demand for our system and services and thus harm our business significantly. Each groundwater treatment solution, including our contaminant treatment systems, must be permitted by applicable state regulatory agencies prior to use of such systems by our customers. Typically, our customers apply for a permit from the applicable state regulatory agency to use our system, and we assist our customers in completion of the permit application process. The application process for our system is time consuming and often involves several information requests to our customers by the regulatory agencies with respect to our system. Furthermore, we cannot predict the impact of changing drinking water standards on the approval of our technology for groundwater treatment. The MCLs for contaminants are subject to review and revision by the EPA and applicable state regulatory agencies. The MCLs may be changed to levels below that which our system can treat on a cost-effective basis, and if we are unable to design a system that removes contaminants below the designated MCL, then the state regulatory agencies will fail to approve our system. Without regulatory approval, our system could not be used by our customers, and we would be required to develop technology that meets any revised MCLs. Although our customers retain title to the brine waste generated by our systems, we facilitate the removal of the waste with a licensed waste disposal service and in some cases contract directly with the waste transporter on behalf of our customers. As such, we may become subject to the provisions of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, or CERCLA. CERCLA, which is also known as Superfund, addresses problems created by the release or threatened release of hazardous substances (as defined in CERCLA) into the environment. CERCLA imposes strict, joint and several liability for remediation of certain disposal sites on: current owners and operators of the site, on former site owners and operators at the time of disposal, on parties who arranged for disposal or treatment or arranged for transportation for disposal or treatment of hazardous substances at the site, and on parties that transport hazardous substances to a site. Because CERCLA liability is joint and several, the costs of a CERCLA cleanup can be substantial. Because liability under CERCLA is strict, it is not premised upon the violation of any law, statute, rule or regulation but is rather based upon a party’s status as an owner, operator, transporter or arranger (as those terms are described above). Such liability can therefore be based upon the release or threatened release, even as a result of lawful, unintentional and non-negligent action, of any one of the more than 700 “hazardous substances” listed by the EPA, even in small amounts. Our Memphis Facility. Our facility in Memphis supports services that include catalyst recovery, service exchange programs for containers of spent filtration media, and media processing and regeneration of ion-exchange media for other water service providers and end users that have applied the media to capture or recover various metals, organics, or inorganic compounds. Because our facility does not accept or receive materials that have been profiled as hazardous wastes, it does not maintain environmental permits as a treatment, storage, and disposal facility for hazardous wastes as defined by the EPA and the State of Tennessee. The Memphis facility performs its own independent waste stream profiling and acceptance criteria review to ensure that all materials received for processing and regeneration are applicable to the Memphis facility processes and are in accordance with the facility’s environmental permits. The Memphis facility’s environmental permits include a National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) wastewater discharge permit to discharge process wastewater to the City of Memphis, Tennessee’s 10 Table of Contents publicly owned treatment works (POTW), an NPDES Stormwater Discharge permit issued by the State of Tennessee, and Special Solid Waste Disposal Permits issued by the facility’s solid waste disposal contractor for the land disposal of certain non-hazardous special waste streams. Since the Memphis facility is also a Small Quantity Generator (SQG) of hazardous waste, we maintain an EPA generator registration and identification number for their hazardous waste disposal activities. We are also pursuing business opportunities involving the removal of radionuclides from groundwater and/or industrial wastewater streams. Our plans are to sell or lease the removal systems to third party customers, with an associated service contract for removal and disposal of the resin material upon exhaustion. We would use a licensed subcontractor for transportation and disposal of the media. These activities would fall under regulations governed by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC). All subcontractors, transporters, and disposal facilities would be required to possess the required NRC permits and licenses to engage in these roles. However, should any of the spent radionuclide-containing resins also contain characteristic or listed hazardous wastes, the resins would be classified as “mixed wastes” and would no longer be regulated by the NRC, but, would be subject to the EPA’s Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) hazardous waste regulations. Given our Memphis facility’s onsite chemical inventory and disposal and/or release of chemical substances / wastes / residues as a part of doing business, the Memphis facility is subject to annual reporting requirements as specified by the EPA Superfund Amendment and Reauthorization Act (SARA) (specifically the SARA 312, Tier II Hazardous Chemical Inventory, and SARA 313, Toxic Release Inventory, regulations). To the extent we do not comply with the various laws and regulations applicable to our activities, we may be subject to fines, regulatory action or private litigation that may adversely affect our business. Research and Development Product development activities include 1) the design and evaluation of experimental ion-exchange processes and groundwater treatment systems for the removal of various contaminants, 2) development of “green” processes for recycle and regeneration of spent medias being conducted at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, or UNLV, and the University of Maryland Biotechnology Institute, or UMBI, and 3) development of processes involving an array of technologies useful in our expansion from an ion-exchange company to a commercial water treatment company. These development activities include extensive piloting efforts on applications related to the removal of nitrate, arsenic and radionuclides from groundwater. As part of our research and development, we have developed a technology for biologically removing and destroying perchlorate load from spent ion-exchange resins. This technology combines biological and ion-exchange treatment in an innovative method which to our knowledge has not been used in the past. We have patents granted in five European countries directed to the BIONExchange™ process as well as one patent granted by the USPTO, which is directed to a process for the removal of perchlorate. We have also contracted with the East Valley Water District to install a full-scale perchlorate removal system which will utilize this technology pending permitting by DHS. We have a sponsored research arrangement with UNLV under which they are researching and testing certain aspects related to the regeneration of exchange resins that may be useful in the BIONExchange™ process. Any intellectual property developed by us under the agreement will be owned by us, any intellectual property developed by UNLV under the agreement will be owned by UNLV and intellectual property developed jointly will be jointly owned by the parties. We have an option to acquire intellectual property from UNLV not solely owned by us, and we paid $0.3 million to UNLV from 2005 to 2007. In 2007, we sponsored research and testing at the UMBI. This research involves the biological destruction of nitrates from residual brine solutions resulting from ion exchange processes to remove nitrates from 11 Table of Contents groundwater. In our view, management of residual brines accounts for approximately 75 percent of the costs associated with treatment processes to remove nitrates from groundwater. The biological destruction of nitrates to nitrogen gas reduces waste costs from these treatment processes, thus potentially resulting in more economical solutions to deliver nitrate-free water to our customers. We paid $5,000 to UMBI in the year ended December 31, 2007. Our total research and development expenses were $0.6 million, $0.6 million and $0.7 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We intend to continue our active research and development efforts internally and through selective strategic alliances to strengthen the position of our groundwater and other treatment technologies through the development of new and improved processes and the filing of additional patent applications. The principal goals of our research program are maintaining our position as a technological leader in solving customers’ problems with technology+services, and acquiring access to and developing new products and services. We may also continue to pursue expanding our expertise into other water treatment technologies through acquisition of, or strategic alliances with other companies. Intellectual Property Our intellectual property is the result of many years of research and development efforts as well as strategic acquisitions and contract relationships. We have pursued a broad strategy of protecting our developed and owned intellectual property, including seeking patent protection, safeguarding trade secrets, registering trademarks and using non-disclosure and other contractual agreements to protect other intellectual property rights. We have developed what we believe to be an innovative process design that significantly improves the economics of using ion exchange for groundwater treatment. As of December 31, 2007, we have two issued United States patents directed to a system and process for the removal of arsenic, one issued United States patent directed to a process for the removal of nitrate and two issued United States patents directed to processes for the removal of perchlorate. We also have one issued patent in the United States and in five European countries directed to our BIONExchange™ process, a proprietary process for biologically removing and destroying perchlorate load from used ion-exchange resins and alternatively from perchlorate-laden ion-exchange resin regeneration brines. We currently are developing technology related to the removal of chromium VI and radium, for which we plan to seek patent protection. In addition, we hold eight pending United States patent applications and eleven pending foreign patent applications on various aspects of our treatment processes. Our patents and patent applications as a group are related to ion exchange and the treatment of one or more of the following contaminants: • Arsenic • Calcium • Chromium VI • Magnesium • Nitrate • Perchlorate • Selenium We employ the Basin Water IX™ software program for the operation of our system. We also use this software program for the design of our system to determine the most efficient operating parameters for our system based upon the contaminant profile of the water source being treated. 12 Table of Contents We have pending trademark applications in the United States for Basin Water® and Basin Water IX™. As part of our business procedures, we typically enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements, or have confidentiality provisions in agreements with our employees, independent contractors and consultants, and non-disclosure agreements with our customers, partners, independent contractors and consultants. MPT, which was acquired by us in September 2007, holds five United States patents and twelve foreign patents related to various chemical manufacturing processes. These patents relate to 1) an improved process for the recovery of ethylene glycol from spent glycol generated in the manufacture of polyethylene terephthalate, 2) an improved separation process for the continuous catalytic oxidation of aromatic alkyls for the production of aromatic carboxylic acids in a liquid solvent medium, 3) an apparatus and method for the purification of waste wash water derived from the production of aromatic acids, 4) a method of polyester manufacturing using cross flow membrane filtration, and 5) a process for the recovery of molybdenum catalyst from the epoxidation reaction product of olefins with organic hydroperoxides. MPT also has three pending United States patent applications related to processes for the treatment of the following contaminants: nitrate, ammonia and radium. The pending patent application related to the treatment of radium has been assigned to us pursuant to our acquisition of MPT. In 2008, we plan to have the other patents and pending patent applications assigned to us. MPT also holds trademark registrations for Hypersorb®, Hyperflux® and Chromasep®. Employees As of December 31, 2007, we employed 107 full-time and 5 part-time employees. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining agreement. There are no pending labor-related legal actions against us filed with any state or federal agency. We believe our employee relations are good. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business We have a limited operating history, have incurred significant operating losses in our first few years of operation and have not consistently achieved profitability on an annual basis. We have a limited operating history and limited revenues derived from our operations. We began our business operations in December 1999 and did not generate our first revenues until 2002. Our revenues grew from $12.2 million in 2005 to $17.1 million in 2006 and $18.8 million in 2007. We have incurred significant net losses attributable to common stockholders since our inception, including net losses of $1.3 million in 2003, $0.6 million in 2004, $11.2 million in 2006 and $15.3 million in 2007. Our net loss in 2006 resulted in part from reserves we recorded in connection with certain of our contracts which have ongoing operating costs in excess of our contract revenues. In addition, our net loss in 2007 resulted in part from additional reserves we recorded in the third quarter of 2007. We took these reserves in connection with certain older legacy projects when it became apparent that most of these projects would be operating at a loss for some period of time. In addition, we may find that additional contracts have ongoing operating costs in excess of revenues, which could have an adverse effect on future results of operations. Though we have taken steps to improve our business processes, we cannot assure you that these improved processes will positively impact our results of operations. At December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $30.5 million. Our operations prior to 2006 primarily focused on development of our technology and onsite regenerable ion exchange treatment system, building our sales and marketing capabilities, commencing the commercial 13 Table of Contents launch of these systems and developing and maintaining customer relationships. In late 2006 and throughout 2007, we implemented several initiatives to improve our business model, but we cannot assure you that any of these initiatives will result in increased revenues or positively impact our financial results. In addition, our ability to successfully sell our systems and services depends on, among other things, the level of demand for contaminated groundwater treatment, which is an evolving market, and the demand for our technology and services in those geographic areas and markets into which we are expanding. Even if we do achieve significant revenues from our business operations, increased operating expenses associated with any expansion of our business may result in future operating losses in the near term as we, among other things: • market our new technology+services offering to our customers; • seek to acquire new customers in the markets in which we are currently active; • expand our technology offering to broaden our reach into new markets, such as the industrial marketplace; • expand geographically throughout the United States pursuant to our regionalization structure; • make significant capital expenditures to support our ability to provide services under our recurring revenue contracts; • expand our internal sales force and develop strategic relationships with companies serving the water, wastewater, waste reduction and resource recovery industries on a national basis; • fund development costs for our systems and technology; and • incur increased general and administrative expenses as our company grows, including increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a result of these and other factors, we may not achieve, sustain or increase our profitability on an ongoing basis. Our future operating results will likely fluctuate significantly from reporting period to reporting period. We expect our future revenues and operating results to fluctuate significantly from period to period due to a number of factors, including: • customer budgets or commitments for our systems and/or services; • the effectiveness of our new and expanding internal sales and marketing organization; • demand for our systems and/or services; • demand for low life-cycle cost solutions among our current and potential customers; • our ability to develop and market new and enhanced technology and our technology+services business model in a cost-effective manner; • our product and price competition in our market; • length of our sales cycle, which is impacted by procurement bidding processes; • our ability to enter into third-party financing arrangements where a customer selects a long-term capital contract, thus recognizing revenue over longer periods of time; • general economic conditions; • ability to control our costs, including labor and the cost of materials to build our system; • increases in the costs of salt, resin, chemicals, waste disposal and other materials necessary to fulfill our obligations under our recurring revenue contracts; 14 Table of Contents • our ability to pass through increased operating costs to our customers under our recurring revenue contracts; • our ability to work with companies with whom we enter into strategic alliances and relationships in a cost-effective manner; and • our ability to build and install systems and provide services on a timely basis and on a low life-cycle cost basis. Any of the foregoing factors, some of which are not within our control, may cause our operating expenses to be disproportionately high or cause our revenues and operating results to fluctuate, which could prevent us from maintaining or increasing our business or could harm our results of operations. In addition, our future revenues or our future operating expenses may not be consistent with our past results, which could adversely affect our stock price. If we do not manage our anticipated growth effectively, we may not be able to develop or implement the infrastructure to support our operations, market our services, manage our relationships with customers and our relationships with strategic partners which could place significant strain on our management and significantly harm our business and operating results. We have grown rapidly, with our revenues increasing from $4.3 million in 2004 to $12.2 million in 2005, $17.1 million in 2006 and $18.8 million in 2007, and the number of our employees increasing from 44 as of December 31, 2005 to 65 as of December 31, 2006 and 107 full time and 5 part time employees as of December 31, 2007. We expect to continue to expand significantly our management, sales and marketing, engineering functions, field services, research and development, testing, quality control, customer service and support operations as well as financial and accounting controls. For instance, we recently expanded our operations to the Southeast U.S. with our acquisition of MPT. This expansion has placed, and will continue to place, significant strain on our management and administrative, operational, technical and financial infrastructure. If our management is unable to manage growth effectively, the quality of our field services, our ability to attract and retain key personnel, the success of our strategic alliance and relationships, and our business or prospects could be harmed significantly. To manage growth effectively, we must: • continue to expand our fabricating capacity; • increase the size of and continually monitor our field service support capability; • meet the demands placed on us by our customers; • continue to enhance our operations and financial and management systems; • increase our sales and engineering personnel; • maintain and improve effective internal control over financial reporting, disclosure controls and procedures and our budgeting and forecasting processes; • expand, train and manage our employee base; and • allocate sufficient management and other resources to support and manage both our internal operations and our strategic relationships. We may not be able to effectively manage any expansion in one or more of these areas, and any failure to do so could harm our ability to maintain or increase revenues and operating results. In addition, our growth may require us to make significant capital expenditures or to incur other significant expenses, and may divert the attention of our personnel from our core business operations, any of which could affect our financial performance adversely. 15 Table of Contents Our financial success will depend in part on the efforts of strategic relationships we may work with in the future. In November 2007, we announced the formation of an exclusive, service-based alliance with Rohm and Haas. This alliance provides us with exclusive access in selected markets to the Rohm and Haas ion-exchange resin technology which we intend to deploy as part of our business model. Our alliance also provides us access to technology for the removal of organic contaminants from water, support for our business model through access to the Rohm and Haas scientific and laboratory resources and Rohm and Haas’ developed channels to the specified markets. In late 2007, we entered into an agreement with Purifics to provide us with unique engineered systems, solutions and products effective in removing organic contaminants from groundwater. Under this agreement, we can exclusively market the Purifics photocatalysis technology in certain areas of the United States, and we have access to the technology on a non-exclusive basis in a larger market area. We may enter into other such strategic relationships with other companies focused on the water, wastewater, waste reduction and resource recovery industries on a national basis. Our financial success and our anticipated growth will depend in part on the efforts of these strategic relationships as we market and sell our treatment systems and solutions. If Rohm and Haas, Purifics or any other strategic relationships fail to perform satisfactorily under their respective agreements with us, or if we fail to maintain these relationships, or establish new relationships as required, then we may lose our access to their technologies, and our ability to market our treatment systems and our technology+services offering will likely suffer. In addition, our revenues resulting from these strategic relationships may not grow as anticipated, and we could be subject to additional costs which could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition significantly. Our long sales cycles make predicting our financial results difficult. Many of our service contracts have a term of five or more years, and some contain an option either to purchase the system or to renew the contract at the end of the initial contract term. Since most of our sales are based on long-term contracts, our customers generally take a longer time to decide to purchase our system and/or services, thus creating a lengthy sales cycle. Other reasons for our long sales cycle include: • the size of the initial capital outlay to be incurred by our customers; • the budget constraints of municipal and industrial customers that may cause delays in project selection; • extensive contract negotiations over the specific terms of the sale of our system and/or services; • the unfamiliarity of some of our customers with utilizing third parties for water and wastewater treatment, waste reduction and resource recovery services; • the resistance by customers to granting control of support functions such as water treatment to external parties; • the availability of many competitive alternatives that may be considered by our customers in the municipal market, including water importation, water blending, coagulation microfiltration (a process of destabilizing charges on contaminants in water by adding chemical coagulants that can then be filtered and removed), reverse osmosis (a pressure-driven separation process that removes contaminants from water by forcing them through a membrane barrier), electrodialysis reversal (a process that transfers contaminants by direct electric current flow through membranes thus removing them from water) and ion exchange processes of our competitors; • the availability of competitive alternatives to our existing and developing technology+services offerings; • the availability of competitive alternatives to our existing and developing offerings in the wastewater treatment, waste reduction and resource recovery industries; • the long approval procedures imposed by government agencies; and 16 Table of Contents • the lengthy approval process of many customers’ equipment/contract procurement procedures due to multiple approvals that may be required by, for example, municipal boards, public bidding or state public utility commission requirements, which is sometimes exacerbated by the initial capital outlay needed to purchase our systems and services. In addition, to the extent we expand our service to international markets, we may face additional factors that contribute to long sales cycles, including additional time required for travel to foreign locations as well as potential problems caused by language barriers, cultural differences, differing business practices, differing contracting practices, and varying regulatory requirements. Our long sales cycles, as well as the placement of large orders with short lead times on an irregular and unpredictable basis, may cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly and unexpectedly from period to period. Since our operating expenses are largely based on anticipated revenue trends and a significant portion of our expenses are, and will continue to be, fixed, any delay in generating or recognizing revenues could harm our operating results or financial condition significantly. Our ion-exchange treatment systems and the technologies upon which they are based may not achieve widespread market acceptance among our customers which may impact demand for our system and services. We have developed our proprietary ion-exchange technology and processes for groundwater treatment based on ion-exchange technology that competes with other forms of groundwater treatment technologies that currently are in operation throughout the United States. This proprietary technology is used in our onsite regenerable and disposable resin treatment systems. Through our acquisition of MPT, we have expanded our capabilities into central regeneration for ion exchange, smaller ion-exchange systems and technologies to serve customers in the industrial markets. These treatment systems and the technologies on which they are based may not achieve widespread market acceptance. Our success will depend on our ability to market our systems and services to businesses and customers on terms and conditions acceptable to us and to establish and maintain successful relationships with municipal and industrial customers. We believe that market acceptance of our systems and technology and our related success will depend on many factors including: • the perceived advantages of our systems over competing treatment solutions; • the actual and perceived safety and efficacy of our systems; • the availability and success of alternative treatment solutions; • the pricing and cost effectiveness of our systems; • our ability to market effectively to municipal and industrial customers that may use our systems; • the permitting of our technology by regulatory agencies; • the willingness of potential customers to enter into long-term service contracts; • publicity concerning our systems and technologies or competitive solutions; • timeliness in assembling and installing our systems on customer sites; • whether or not our existing customers continue to use our system and services and/or renew service contracts after their expiration; • our ability to respond to changes in the regulatory standards for maximum contaminant levels of various contaminants; • the ability of our strategic relationships to provide necessary support to our efforts to market their technologies now available to us from our strategic alliance and other agreements; 17 Table of Contents • our ability to provide effective service and maintenance of our system to our customers’ satisfaction; and • our ability to control operating costs. If our systems or technologies fail to achieve or maintain market acceptance or if new technologies are introduced by others that are more favorably received than our technology, are more cost effective or otherwise render our technologies obsolete, we may experience a decline in demand for our systems and services. If we are unable to market and sell our systems and services successfully, our revenues would decline and our operating results and prospects would suffer. We may be unable to attract and retain qualified personnel which could harm our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects significantly. Our future success also will depend, in large part, on our ability to identify, attract and retain sufficient numbers of highly skilled employees, particularly qualified sales, marketing and engineering personnel. As of December 31, 2007, we had 107 full-time and 5 part-time employees. Although we have expanded our sales force somewhat, we have a limited number of sales and marketing employees and consultants, as well as service employees who provide field and other services to our treatment systems. We may not succeed in identifying, attracting and retaining individuals who qualify for these positions. Further, competitors and other companies may attempt to recruit our employees. If we are unable to hire and retain adequate staffing levels, it may be difficult to increase sales of our systems or services or adequately support our installed systems, which could harm our business and prospects. Our future success also depends on the experience and expertise of our President and CEO, whose talents, efforts and relationships within the water industry have been, and continue to be, critical to our success. We have an employment agreement with our CEO that provides for “at will” employment. However, we cannot prevent our CEO from leaving our employ if he chooses to do so. We do not currently carry “key man” insurance upon the life of our CEO or the lives of any of our employees or officers. The loss of our CEO’s services and access to his abilities and relationships could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our customer base and could harm our operating results and prospects significantly. The current geographic concentration of our customers in California and Arizona and the location of our headquarters in California make our business particularly vulnerable to adverse conditions affecting these markets. Currently, our customers are concentrated geographically, primarily in the states of California and Arizona. Our revenues and operating results are therefore subject to local regulatory, economic, demographic and weather conditions in those areas. A change in any of these conditions could make it more costly or difficult for us to conduct our business. In addition, we are subject to greater risk of loss from earthquakes and wildfires because our headquarters, where we assemble our onsite regenerable systems, and most of the well locations that utilize our system are concentrated in California. Any of these occurrences could result in increased costs and a disruption in our operations, which would harm our operating results and financial condition significantly. Due to our current client concentration, a loss of one of our significant customers could harm our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects. As of December 31, 2007, we had 25 customers, not including approximately 200 small customers we added as a result of our acquisition of MPT. Our top three customers collectively accounted for 53% of our revenues during 2007 and typically have more than one contract with us for services provided to different wells. Our customers, including these top three customers, 18 Table of Contents may, upon the occurrence of certain circumstances, elect to terminate their contracts with us prior to their contractual expiration date and seek services from our competitors. In addition, upon the expiration of these contracts, our customers may decide not to renew such contracts with us. If we were to lose one or more of these significant customers for any reason, our revenues would decline significantly and our business, operating results and prospects would suffer. We may face risks associated with our geographic expansion. We are implementing a regional structure in which we plan to open offices in five regions throughout the United States to support our municipal customers and one office to support our industrial customers. Our ability to expand our offering geographically will depend on our ability to recruit, hire, train and motivate sales, operations and field services personnel. If we are unsuccessful in gathering a critical mass of projects in a regional office, we may find it additionally difficult to recruit and hire sales, operations and field services personnel or leverage our overhead costs or to maintain the profitability of such regional office. Our operations in these regional offices, including our industrial operations office, will be far from our executive offices in Southern California and will require additional management time and attention. Failure to properly supervise the personnel in these offices could result in loss of new business and potentially harm future sales prospects. In addition, as our systems and services for industrial customers become accepted in North America, these customers may require us to support their international activities which will require additional time and resources. Supporting the marketing, development, process design, and operations of potentially distant operations will further challenge our management team and operations and could cause harm to our business or operating results. Most of our operations are conducted in our facilities in Southern California and our facility in Memphis, Tennessee. Disruptions at these facilities could increase our expenses. A significant portion of our fabricating operations for our onsite regenerable and disposable resin treatment systems are conducted in one facility in Southern California. In addition, our executive offices are also located in Southern California. Our central resin regeneration operations for our offsite regenerable treatment systems and our base of our operations servicing the industrial markets are located at our facility in Memphis, Tennessee. We take precautions to safeguard our facilities, including obtaining insurance, maintaining health and safety protocols, and using off-site storage of computer data. However, a natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire or flood in Southern California or a tornado, flood or earthquake in Memphis, could cause substantial delays in our operations, damage or destroy our fabricating equipment, resin regeneration facility or inventory and cause us to incur additional expenses. The insurance we maintain against natural disasters may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case, which would require us to expend significant resources to replace any destroyed assets, thereby harming our financial condition and prospects significantly. We face risks associated with the historical and current operations at our Memphis facility. We acquired our Memphis facility in September 2007 and have limited operating experience with this facility. From our Memphis facility, we regenerate the ion-exchange resins associated with our offsite regenerable treatment systems and for other customers that have not purchased one of our systems but who require resin. Any problems we face in shipping or transporting resins to our Memphis facility for regeneration, the inability to regenerate certain resins, or any other problems at our Memphis facility that would prevent us from timely providing regeneration services on a cost-effective basis would adversely affect our relationships with our customers, our business and our results of operations. In connection with our acquisition of MPT, we obtained indemnification from the MPT stockholders for any violations of environmental laws that occurred prior to the acquisition date. We cannot assure you that there are no environmental risks associated with the Memphis facility or that indemnification obligations of the MPT stockholders with respect to any such problems will adequately protect us from any liability we may face. In 19 Table of Contents addition, we cannot be certain that the materials characterization procedures at our Memphis facility are adequate to properly identify and dispose of hazardous waste. If these procedures are deficient, then we may be in violation of certain environmental laws which could result in potential liability or disruptions in our operations. Our Memphis facility is over 50 years old and may also contain latent defects or other damage of which we are unaware. In the future, this facility may also lack the capacity to meet our needs for central regeneration of resins or for conducting our industrial market operations. Any of these occurrences could require us to make substantial investment in this facility so that it meets our needs, or require us to relocate our operations from this facility, which would result in significant disruptions in our operations at this facility. Also in connection with our acquisition of MPT, we assumed certain legacy contracts and other arrangements to which MPT was a party. Some of these contracts may have terms that we do not find to be favorable or compatible with our business plans, including our ability to expand and/or penetrate markets. We may be unable to renegotiate these contracts on more favorable terms or at all, which may adversely impact our business and results of operations. Because our Memphis facility serves as the base for our marketing efforts in the industrial markets, a disruption at our Memphis facility would significantly impair our ability to market to industrial customers, which could adversely affect the growth of our business. In addition, we may face difficulties in attracting, recruiting, and retaining employees with the requisite technical or operating talent to Memphis for our expansion into industrial markets. Because our Memphis facility serves as the base for our geographic expansion into the Southeast, a disruption at our Memphis facility could significantly impair our ability to expand our marketing and field services into this region. We face risks associated with the design and operation of our systems which may prevent us from increasing our revenues. We take responsibility for the design, construction, initial maintenance and installation of our ion exchange systems. However, we cannot predict whether we will be able to design our systems for every particular contaminant. Thus, we may be required to turn away customers that require treatment of chemical contaminants that our systems do not treat. We also cannot guarantee that once constructed, our systems will operate according to their design or be free from defects. Because many of our systems treat groundwater for dangerous contaminants, if our systems fail to operate properly, it could cause significant public harm, especially for drinking water applications. Following installation, testing and regulatory certification of a system, actual day-to-day operation of our groundwater treatment systems is transitioned to our customer’s personnel. Though we retain ownership of many of our systems, our customers take responsibility for operation of some of these systems. We, however, continue to be responsible for the maintenance of the installed systems in most cases. We may not be able to provide sufficient employees for the maintenance of those systems. In addition, because our systems are located at our customers’ sites, we will not always be physically present should problems arise. If there are defects in our system or if significant reliability, quality or performance problems develop with respect to our system or services, this may have a number of negative effects on our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects, including: • loss of revenues; • failure to attract new customers and achieve market acceptance; • delays in collecting accounts receivable; 20 Table of Contents • diversion of management and development resources and the attention of engineering personnel; • significant customer relations problems and loss of existing customers; • high service, support, repair, warranty and insurance expenses; • removal of our systems from service by state regulatory agencies for failure to operate properly; and • legal actions for damages by our customers. In order to operate our business successfully, we must meet evolving municipal customer requirements for groundwater treatment and invest in the development of our technology. If we fail to develop or enhance our system and services to satisfy evolving municipal customer demands, our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects may be harmed significantly. The market for groundwater treatment in the municipal markets is characterized by changing technologies, periodic new product introductions and evolving customer and industry standards. For instance, competitors in the groundwater treatment industry are continuously searching for methods of groundwater treatment that are more cost-effective and more efficient. Our current and prospective municipal customers may choose future groundwater treatment solutions and/or services that might be offered at a lower price than our system and/or services. To achieve market acceptance for our system and services, we must effectively and timely anticipate and adapt to customer requirements and offer products and services that meet customer demands. Our municipal customers may require us to provide water treatment solutions for new contaminants or higher volumes of water or to decrease the presence of contaminants well below an applicable MCL which may increase our operating costs for those systems and harm our results of operations. We also may experience design, engineering and other difficulties that could delay or prevent the development, introduction or marketing of any modifications to our system or our new services. Our failure to successfully develop and offer systems or services that satisfy customer requirements would likely cause a decrease in our financial performance. In addition, if our competitors introduce solutions and/or services based on new or alternative water treatment technologies, our existing and future systems and/or services could become obsolete, which would also weaken demand for our systems or services, thereby decreasing our revenues and harming our operating results. Serving customers in industrial markets presents numerous risks. We face numerous risks as we expand our services to customers in the industrial markets. We have limited experience in serving industrial market customers and have never provided systems or services to customers in the oil, gas or mining industries. Industrial customers may have different requirements and goals than our municipal customers. Our industrial customers may choose treatment solutions and/or services that are offered on a low life-cycle cost basis or that give them an advantage from a technological standpoint. They may also require us to tailor our systems to meet their specific business needs, which may result in additional development and design costs. We may have difficulty in developing technologies and services that address the needs of these customers and in hiring the appropriate engineering or other talent that can develop such technologies. In some cases, we may be required to conduct a pilot project to address an industrial market customer’s needs. We may expend significant time and resources in building and conducting the pilot project, and there can be no assurance that the pilot will successfully uncover all key process variables required to successfully scale up a particular process or meet the customer’s requirements. Since these processes have not been successfully commercialized, more extensive or other pilot testing may be required. Even if we meet the customer’s treatment requirements at the pilot stage, when we build the full-scale treatment system, positive results from a pilot test might not provide an accurate indication of the treatment capabilities of and the cost of operation of a full-scale treatment system, and thus, we may have problems meeting the relevant treatment requirements on an economically feasible basis or at all. Additionally, startup of new industrial process facilities could cause increased safety risks until processes and procedures for normal operation, upset conditions and emergency conditions are established and well understood by our employees. To 21 Table of Contents the extent we are unable to meet these customers’ demands and requirements, our expansion into these markets may not be successful which would adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects. The economics of the systems for some of our industrial customers may rely on the recovery of a valuable resource from waste streams. Should the underlying economics of the resource deteriorate significantly, demand for these types of our systems and services may decline which could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. Industrial market customers may pose credit risks that we do not necessarily face to the same degree with our municipal market customers. Our industrial market customers may not be economically viable, might be newly formed without adequate capitalization and/or may be highly dependent on commodity prices, such as companies in the oil, gas and mining industries. Changes in commodity prices will particularly impact the viability of our business in recovery of valuable materials. Finally, when we install our treatment system onsite for an industrial customer, we must take into account the location which our customer provides us for the installation. We, our systems or the hazardous chemicals we use in our systems may damage the property or harm our customer’s personnel that may be in proximity to our systems, or we may adversely impact our customer’s operations while we install, service and/or repair our systems. In addition, our employees may be injured by hazardous chemicals, machinery or other dangers at our customer’s site during the installation, operation and/or servicing of our systems. Because of our unfamiliarity with building systems for the industrial markets, we may not understand all of the safety and other risks associated with these systems until we have more experience servicing this industry. Any of these risks could have an adverse effect on our ability to address the industrial market. Our reliance on third party suppliers and manufacturers poses significant risks to our business and prospects. We contract for all of the components in our system and for all of the commodities necessary to fulfill our service obligations, including salt, chemicals and replacement resin, with third-party suppliers. We plan to rely on third party suppliers and manufacturers for systems we market to industrial customers. We are subject to substantial risks because of our reliance on these suppliers and manufacturers. For example: • our suppliers may increase prices for these commodities that exceed contract provisions to recover such costs; • our suppliers may not provide components that meet our specifications in sufficient quantities; • our suppliers and manufacturers may face a reduction or an interruption of supply of our components; • our manufacturers may lack the capacity and resources to continue to manufacture our systems or supply them in sufficient quantity to meet our demands; • our suppliers and manufacturers may face production delays due to natural disasters or strikes, lock-outs or other such actions; • one or more suppliers or manufacturers could make strategic changes in its or their product lines; • there may be a lack of alternative suppliers for certain product lines; and • many of our suppliers and manufacturers are small companies which are more likely to experience financial and operational difficulties than larger, well-established companies, because of their limited financial and other resources. As a result of any of these factors, we may be required to find alternative suppliers for the components of our system or alternative manufacturers for our systems marketed to industrial customers. It may take considerable amounts of time to identify and qualify such alternative suppliers. In addition, we may be required to redesign our system to conform to the components provided by these alternative suppliers. As a result of these factors, we may experience delays in obtaining raw materials and components on a timely basis and in sufficient 22 Table of Contents quantities from our suppliers, which could result in delays in the production and installation of our system. We may also face delays in the manufacture and assembly of our industrial market systems from third party manufacturers. These delays could impact our ability to sell our systems, enter into recurring revenue contracts or profitably execute our service agreements, which would cause our revenues and operating results to decline. In addition, we have lacked the leverage or have otherwise been unable able to negotiate consistently long-term contracts for the supply of components and commodities necessary to build our systems and fulfill our service obligations. As a result, rising component or commodity prices could increase our expenses and adversely affect our results of operations. We often place our systems through a party other than the party with whom we enter into a long-term contract which may cause difficulties in selling our systems and offering our services. When we sell a system to a municipal or industrial customer, we often contract with a general contractor as opposed to our actual customer. We often enter into a separate long-term contract for servicing the system directly with our municipal or industrial customer. Contracting with different parties can create difficulties for us, including having inconsistent terms between the two contracts which makes it more difficult to successfully close the transaction and could harm our relationships with our customers. These difficulties may adversely affect our business and results of operations. As part of our growth, we intend to increase our ability to provide service to our customers under recurring revenue contracts and develop new technologies internally. Our failure in these endeavors could negatively impact our stock price and cause our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects to suffer. We plan to continue to grow rapidly for the foreseeable future. As part of this growth, we intend to make significant capital expenditures to support our operations focused on our recurring revenue contracts. In addition, we plan to continue developing new technologies through our research and development efforts. The capital expenditures we incur or the technologies we develop internally may not result in the financial results that we expect. In addition, developing new technologies may cause diversion of management’s attention from our existing business. Any or all of these factors could prevent us from maintaining or increasing our customer base and business and cause the price of our common stock to decline. The revenues from certain of our long-term contracts for onsite regenerable treatment systems are moderately seasonal, with higher processing fees received in the summer months and lower processing fees received in the winter months. Our business, particularly the revenues we receive from our long-term contracts, is moderately seasonal due to the impact of summer and hot weather conditions on the water requirements of our customers. In the summer and warmer months, our customers have a higher demand for water and generally increase the utilization of their groundwater resources resulting in a higher volume of groundwater treated during a period and thus higher revenues from our long-term contracts. However, this increased utilization results in increased operating costs for us, which could adversely affect our profit margins and results of operations. Conversely, our customers experience lower demand in cooler months in the first and fourth calendar quarters, resulting in lower revenues from our long-term contracts during those periods. This seasonality in processing fees has resulted in fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. These moderate seasonal trends can cause some reductions in our profit margin and variations in our financial condition. We own a large stake in Empire Water Corporation, and to the extent that it does not succeed, the value of our investment in Empire Water Corporation may decline. We recently disposed of our rights to purchase certain water assets to Empire Water Corporation, or Empire, in exchange for approximately 32% of the outstanding stock of Empire. After the closing of an anticipated 23 Table of Contents second financing, we expect to own approximately 37% of the outstanding stock of Empire. To the extent that Empire does not succeed in its operations or business, the value of Empire’s common stock will likely decline, which would cause the value of our investment in Empire to decline. Such a decline in the value of our investment would have an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We have been named as a party to lawsuits, including class action and derivative action lawsuits, and we may be named in additional litigation, all of which could require time and attention from certain members of management and result in significant legal expenses. An unfavorable outcome in one or more of these lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. On October 26, 2007, Veolia Water North America Operating Services, LLC and certain other related parties filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court of the Middle District of Florida, Tampa Division, naming as defendants Basin Water-MPT, Inc. (a wholly owned subsidiary of Basin Water, Inc.) and two of its employees, one of whom is the son of Basin Water, Inc.’s President and Chief Executive Officer. The lawsuit alleges, among other things, certain claims related to trade secrets and unfair trade practices relating to treatment of by-products produced as a result of the phosphate mining industry. The lawsuit does not claim a specific amount of damages. On December 27, 2007 and January 2, 2008, two purported securities class action complaints were filed in the United States District Court for the Central District of California against Basin Water, Inc., Peter L. Jensen, Michael M. Stark and Thomas C. Tekulve (collectively referred to as the “Basin defendants”) for violations of the Exchange Act. These lawsuits, which contain similar allegations, are captioned Poulos v. Basin Water, et al., Case No. CV 07-8359 GW (FFMx) and Nofer v. Basin Water, et al., Case No. CV 08-0002 SGL (JCRx). The lawsuits, among other things, allege that the Basin defendants “issued materially false and misleading statements regarding the Company’s business and financial results” because the Company “had not adequately accounted for reserves in connection with its legacy system contracts.” Plaintiffs allege a putative class period between May 14, 2007 and November 13, 2007, and do not claim a specific amount of damages. On January 23, 2008, we received a letter dated January 17, 2008, from attorneys representing a purported shareholder demanding that we investigate and remedy alleged breaches of fiduciary duty by certain unnamed officers and directors of the Company. In the demand letter, the attorneys allege that the unnamed officers and directors violated their duties to the Company by, among other things, participating in or permitting the company to issue false and misleading statements regarding our business and financial results giving rise to the above named lawsuits. On January 31, 2008, Loren Charif, a purported stockholder of our company, filed a shareholder derivative lawsuit in the Superior Court of the State of California, County of San Bernardino, against certain of our executive officers and our current directors. The complaint assumes the truth of the aforementioned allegations in the federal securities class action lawsuits and in connection with those allegations alleges, among other things, breaches of fiduciary duties, waste of corporate assets, unjust enrichment and violations of California Corporations Code pertaining to allegations of improper selling. From time to time, we are involved in legal and administrative disputes and proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business, which we believe are not material to the conduct of our business. We are subject to risks related to our international operations. We currently serve some international customers from our Memphis facility. We may serve additional international customers or expand our operations internationally. As we expand our international operations, we will be increasingly susceptible to the following risks associated with international operations: • import and export license requirements; 24 Table of Contents • trade restrictions; • changes in tariffs and taxes; • restrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the United States; • the imposition of foreign and domestic governmental controls; • unfamiliarity with foreign laws and regulations and ability to enforce obligations of foreign partners; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • product registration, permitting and regulatory compliance; • significant, time-consuming and expensive travel to foreign locations; • fluctuations in foreign currencies; • language and cultural barriers; • thefts and other crimes; and • geopolitical conditions, such as terrorist attacks, war or other military action. In addition, we may develop formal and informal relationships with existing and new local business partners who can provide local expertise and sales and distribution infrastructure to support our expansion in our target international markets, which will be time-consuming and costly. Several of the risks associated with our international business may be within the control (in whole or in part) of these local business partners with whom we have established relationships or may be affected by the acts or omissions of these local business partners. No assurances can be provided that these local business partners will effectively help us in their respective markets and the inability to do so would adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Failure to protect, or uncertainty regarding the validity, enforceability or scope of, our intellectual property rights could impair our competitive position. Our treatment systems and services utilize a variety of proprietary rights that are important to our competitive position and success. Because the intellectual property associated with our technology is evolving and rapidly changing, our current intellectual property rights may not protect us adequately. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets and contractual restrictions to protect the intellectual property we use in our business. In addition, we generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements, or have confidentiality provisions in agreements, with our employees, consultants, strategic relationships and customers and control access to, and distribution of, our technology, documentation and other proprietary information. Our pending patent applications may not be granted or, if granted, the resulting patent may be challenged or invalidated by our competitors or by other third parties. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. In addition, monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, and we cannot be certain the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will prevent unauthorized use of it. Because legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of patent and intellectual property rights in new technologies are uncertain and still evolving, the future viability or value of our intellectual property rights is uncertain. Furthermore, our competitors independently may develop similar technologies that limit the value of our intellectual property or design around patents issued to us. If competitors or third parties are able to use our intellectual property or are able to successfully challenge, circumvent, invalidate or render unenforceable our intellectual property, we likely would lose a significant portion of our competitive advantage in the market. We may not be successful in securing or maintaining proprietary or patent 25 Table of Contents protection for the technology used in our systems or services, and protection that is secured may be challenged and possibly lost. We may have to prosecute unauthorized uses of our intellectual property and the expense, time, delay and burden on management of such litigation could prevent us from maintaining or increasing our business. Our inability to protect our intellectual property adequately for these and other reasons could result in weakened demand for our systems or services, which would result in a decline in our revenues. In addition, we have entered into an alliance agreement with Rohm and Haas and an agreement with Purifics, pursuant to which we have access to certain of their technologies. To the extent that each of these parties faces a challenge to its intellectual property rights in those technologies, it could have an adverse effect on our ability to market our systems and/or services that incorporate those technologies which would result in a decline in our revenues. We could become subject to litigation regarding intellectual property rights, which could harm our business significantly. Our commercial success will continue to depend in part on our ability to make and sell our systems or provide our services without infringing the patents or proprietary rights of third parties. We face these risks with respect to intellectual property that we have developed internally, as well as with respect to intellectual property rights we have acquired from third parties. For example, pursuant to our alliance agreement with Rohm and Haas and our agreement with Purifics, we have access to the technologies owned by each of these companies. To the extent either of these parties has failed to adequately protect the technologies upon which we rely or if these technologies infringe upon the patents or proprietary rights of third parties, we may be unable to continue using such technologies or we may face lawsuits related to our past use of these technologies. In addition, our competitors, many of which have substantially greater resources than us and have made significant investments in competing technologies or products, may seek to apply for and obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make or sell our systems or provide our services. If we are unsuccessful in any challenge to our rights to market and sell our systems, our rights to use third party technologies or to provide our services, we may, among other things, be required to: • pay actual damages, royalties, lost profits and/or increased damages and the third party’s attorneys’ fees, which may be substantial; • cease the development, manufacture and/or marketing of our systems or services that use the intellectual property in question through a court-imposed sanction called an injunction; • expend significant resources to modify or redesign our systems or other technology or services so that they do not infringe others’ intellectual property rights or to develop or acquire non-infringing technology, which may not be possible; or • obtain licenses to the disputed rights, which could require us to pay substantial upfront fees and future royalty payments and may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Even if we successfully defend any infringement claims, the expense, time, delay and burden on management of litigation could prevent us from maintaining or increasing our business. Further, negative publicity could decrease demand for our systems and services and cause our revenues to decline, thus harming our operating results significantly. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology, systems and services could be harmed significantly. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information in operating our business. We seek to protect this information, in part, through the use of confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, advisors and others upon commencement of their relationships with us. These agreements require 26 Table of Contents that all confidential information developed by the individual or made known to the individual by us during the course of the individual’s relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. Our agreements with employees also provide that any inventions conceived by the individual in the course of rendering services to us are our exclusive property. Nonetheless, those agreements may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information and prevent their unauthorized use or disclosure. In the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets or proprietary information, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection, particularly for our trade secrets or other confidential information. To the extent that consultants, key employees or other third parties apply technological information independently developed by them or by others to our proposed products, disputes may arise as to the proprietary rights to such information which may not be resolved in our favor. The risk that other parties may breach confidentiality agreements or that our trade secrets become known or independently discovered by competitors, could harm us by enabling our competitors, who may have greater experience and financial resources, to copy or use our trade secrets and other proprietary information in the advancement of their products, methods or technologies. The disclosure of our trade secrets would impair our competitive position, thereby weakening demand for our systems or services and harming our ability to maintain or increase our customer base. In addition, to the extent that we do not fulfill our contractual or other obligations to adequately protect the technologies to which we have been granted access by Rohm and Haas or Purifics, we could be liable to either of them for any resulting harm to their businesses or could lose further access to those technologies, which could harm our business, operating results or financial condition. Risks Related to Our Industry We are subject to environmental risks that may prevent us from selling our systems and, if such risks are realized, may subject us to clean-up costs or litigation that could adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects. We are subject to a number of governmental regulations with respect to our business activities and operations. See “Business—Government Regulation.” For example, our onsite regenerable ion-exchange technology generates a byproduct known as brine waste. Our customers are required to dispose of any waste materials or byproducts from our treatment process in a manner mandated by the EPA or state regulatory agencies. The EPA or state regulatory agencies may consider these or other byproducts of the ion-exchange process to be hazardous, and in such cases, our customers will be subject to additional requirements relating to the treatment, storage, disposal and transportation of hazardous substances. With respect to our onsite regenerable treatment systems, though our customers take title to all brine waste, together with all other byproducts of the ion-exchange technology process, we generally contract with third parties to secure waste disposal services on our customers’ behalf. We cannot predict whether any new laws, statutes, ordinances, rules or regulations will be enacted that may require significant modification to our system or our services, which may weaken demand for our system or services and harm our business significantly. In addition, we cannot predict whether any third party will assert against us any claims for violations of any federal, state or local statute, ordinance, law, rule or regulation relating to hazardous or toxic substances in connection with the brine waste or groundwater treatment process or as a result of any actions of the third-party waste disposal services with whom we contract on behalf of our customers who use our onsite regenerable treatment systems. We face similar risks with respect to resins containing contaminants that we transport to our Memphis facility for regeneration, as these resins may contain hazardous substances with our knowledge. CERCLA and analogous state laws provide for the remediation of certain contaminated facilities and impose strict, joint and several liability for remediation costs on current and former owners or operators of a facility at which there has been a release or a threatened release of a “hazardous substance.” This liability is also imposed on persons who arrange for the disposal or transportation of such substances, and on those who transport such substances to the facility. Hundreds of substances are defined as “hazardous” under CERCLA and analogous 27 Table of Contents state laws and their presence, even in small amounts, can result in substantial liability. The expense of conducting a cleanup can be significant. The actual costs for these liabilities could be significantly greater than the amounts that we might be required to accrue on our financial statements from time to time. In addition to the costs of complying with environmental regulations, we may incur costs to defend against litigation brought by government agencies and private parties. As a result, we may be required to pay fines to governmental agencies if we are found to have violated these environmental laws. In addition, we may in the future be a defendant in lawsuits brought by private parties who assert claims alleging environmental damage, natural resource damages, personal injury, property damage and/or violations of permits and licenses by us. If such claims are asserted against us, and if we do not prevail in defending such claims, we may be required to pay significant damages, causing our financial condition to suffer. Even if we successfully defend against such claims, we may devote significant time and resources to litigation, which would likely prevent us from maintaining or increasing our customer base and business. We face additional environmental risks related to the parties with whom we do business, particularly those parties that send resin to our Memphis facility for regeneration. Our customers may not be in compliance with federal, state or local statutes, ordinances, laws, rules or regulations relating to hazardous or toxic substances and to the extent we assist them with water and wastewater treatment services offsite regeneration of resins or waste reduction or resource recovery services, we could be subject to liability under these various laws and regulations. In addition, our contracts with these customers may not adequately protect us from these liabilities, and even if our contracts provide these legal protections, these customers may not have the financial resources to provide us with the protection to which we are legally entitled such as the ability to pay indemnity obligations to which they are contractually obligated. We also face environmental risks associated with our operations targeted to serve industrial customers. These operations involve wastewater treatment, water reuse and the recovery of valuable commodities and often require the discharge of wastewater and other materials. We plan for these activities to take place at our Memphis facility. These activities subject us to numerous stringent permitting requirements as well as numerous federal, state or local statutes, ordinances, laws, rules or regulations relating to hazardous or toxic substances. For example, our Memphis facility’s environmental permits include a NPDES wastewater discharge permit and Special Solid Waste Disposal Permits. In addition, this facility is required to maintain an EPA generator registration and identification number for its hazardous waste disposal activities. Additionally, to the extent these activities involve radionuclides, they would be subject to regulations governed by the NRC. If we do not comply with the applicable environmental laws and regulations applicable to our activities or obtain and maintain the appropriate permits necessary to conduct these activities, we would be subject to numerous Changes in governmental regulation and other legal uncertainties could adversely affect our customers or decrease demand for our systems, and thus harm our business, operating results and prospects. In the United States, many different federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the treatment and distribution of contaminated groundwater and disposal of attendant wastes. The increased interest in the treatment of contaminated groundwater due to increased media attention on the adverse health effects from contaminated drinking water may result in intervention by the EPA or state regulatory agencies under existing or newly enacted legislation and in the imposition of restrictions, fees or charges on users and providers of products and services in this area. These restrictions, fees or charges could adversely affect our customers, which could negatively affect our revenues. Conversely, the failure of the EPA or state regulatory agencies to act on a timely basis to set interim or permanent standards for pollutants such as MCLs, or to delay effective dates for standards for pollutants, grant waivers of compliance with such standards or take other discretionary actions not to enforce these standards, may decrease demand for our systems and services because our customers would not be required to bring their water into compliance with such regulatory standards. Changes in regulations affecting our industrial customers, such as with respect to wastewater treatment or water reuse processes, could also impact their need for our systems and/or services. While we are not aware of any currently proposed federal regulation directly affecting our business, we cannot predict whether there will be future legislation regarding the treatment 28 Table of Contents and distribution of contaminated groundwater, the disposal of attendant wastes, wastewater treatment or water reuse processes. If there are significant changes in such laws and regulations, particularly if such laws and regulations become less stringent, such changes could weaken demand for our systems or services and cause our revenues to decline, thus harming our operating results and prospects. Each groundwater treatment solution must be permitted by a regulatory agency prior to its use by our customers, and changing drinking water standards and other factors could affect the approval process with respect to our system by such regulatory agencies. Each groundwater treatment solution, including our groundwater treatment system and those of our competitors, must be permitted by applicable state regulatory agencies prior to use of such systems by our customers. We cannot assure you when or whether the various regulatory agencies will approve our system for use by our customers. The application process for our system is time consuming and often involves several information requests by the regulatory agencies with respect to our system. Any long waiting periods or difficulties faced by our customers in the application process could cause some of our customers to use competing technologies, products, services or sources of drinking water, rather than use our technology. Also, we cannot predict the impact of changing drinking water standards on the approval of our technology for groundwater treatment. Our system currently treats groundwater so that it meets the MCL for several different contaminants. MCLs are set by the EPA and/or state regulatory agencies that regulate drinking water contaminants. However, the MCL for any contaminant is subject to review and revision by the EPA or state regulatory agencies. MCLs may be changed to levels below that which our system can treat, resulting in state regulatory agencies failing to approve our system. Without regulatory approval, our system could not be used by our customers, and we may be required to develop technology that meets any revised MCLs, and to the extent we cannot do so, sales of our system will suffer. The development of such technology may require increased expenditures, and during this development, we could be delayed in selling our system, which would cause our revenues to decline, thus harming our operating results significantly. Demand for our groundwater treatment systems would be adversely affected by a downturn in government spending related to groundwater treatment solutions, or in the cyclical residential or non-residential building markets. Our municipal market business is dependent upon spending on groundwater treatment solutions by utilities, municipalities and other organizations that supply water, which in turn is often dependent upon residential construction, population growth, continued contamination of groundwater sources and regulatory responses to this contamination. As a result, demand for our water treatment systems could be impacted adversely by general budgetary constraints on our governmental or regulated customers, including government spending cuts, the inability of government entities to issue debt to finance any necessary groundwater treatment projects, difficulty of our customers in obtaining necessary permits or changes in regulatory limits associated with the chemical contaminants we seek to address with our groundwater treatment system. It is not unusual for the implementation of water treatment solutions to be delayed and rescheduled for a number of reasons, including changes in project priorities and difficulties in complying with environmental and other government regulations. We cannot assure you that economic conditions will continue such that state and local governments will address groundwater contaminant needs and consider purchasing or entering into long-term contracts for our systems. In addition, although our target markets have experienced population growth in recent years along with related residential building market growth, we have recently witnessed a significant slowdown in the residential building industry, particularly in the arid West. A slowdown of growth in residential and non-residential building would reduce demand for drinking water and for groundwater treatment solutions such as our systems. The residential and non-residential building markets are generally cyclical, and, historically, down cycles have typically lasted a number of years. Any significant decline in the governmental spending on groundwater treatment solutions or residential or non-residential building markets could weaken demand for our systems or services, thus harming our operating results and prospects significantly. 29 Table of Contents We operate in a competitive market, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our business, operating results and prospects could suffer. The market environment in which we operate is very dynamic and is characterized by evolving standards, the development of new technology, regulations which continually reduce the acceptable levels for contaminants and affect the means, methods and costs of disposing of wastes derived from groundwater treatment. Though barriers to entry in this market are arguably high, we expect that competition will intensify in the future. We believe that in such a rapidly changing market, key competitive factors include: • development and use of technology; • effectiveness of treatment and waste disposal methods; • changing requirements of the EPA or state regulatory agencies; and • changing requirements of customers in the industrial markets; and • the availability of capital to meet evolving customer needs and requirements for the treatment of contaminated water. We compete with large groundwater treatment companies, such as Severn Trent PLC, GE Water and Siemens AG, in our business aimed at the municipal markets. We compete with large industrial market companies, such as GE Water and Layne Christensen, in our business aimed at the industrial markets. Many of our current and potential competitors have technical and financial resources, marketing and service organizations and market expertise significantly greater than ours. Many of our competitors also have longer operating histories, greater name recognition and larger customer bases. Moreover, our competitors may forecast the course of market developments more accurately and could in the future develop new technologies that compete with our systems and/or services or even render our system and/or services obsolete. Due to the evolving markets in which we compete, additional competitors with significant market presence and financial resources may enter those markets, thereby further increasing competition. These competitors may be able to reduce our market share by adopting more aggressive pricing policies than we can or by developing technology and services that gain wider market acceptance than our system and/or services. Existing and potential competitors also may develop relationships with distributors of our systems and services or third parties with whom we have strategic relationships in a manner that could harm our ability to sell, market and develop our systems and services significantly. If we do not compete successfully we may never achieve significant market penetration and we may be unable to maintain or increase our business or revenues, causing our operating results and prospects to suffer. We could become subject to litigation as a result of claims brought against our customers, which could harm our operating results and financial condition significantly. Our municipal customers are water providers that supply drinking water treated by our system to the general public. If our customers faced claims from consumers related to the quality of the drinking water, such consumers also may bring claims against any other party with whom the customer contracted in the groundwater treatment process. Even if our system treated the groundwater successfully for the contaminants it was designed to remove, we still may be subject to claims from such consumers. Our industrial customers may also face liability from consumers or regulatory agencies with respect to their wastewater treatment or waste reduction activities. These parties may also bring claims or actions against us because our systems and services were utilized in our customer’s activities. Despite any success in defending such claims, the expense, time, delay and burden on management of litigation would likely prevent us from maintaining or increasing our business and negative publicity could weaken demand for our services, cause our revenues to decline and harm our operating results and financial condition significantly. 30 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Finances and Capital Requirements We will need additional capital to sustain and grow our business and we cannot provide any assurances that additional financing will be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. We expect that our current cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to fund our anticipated future growth and operations for the foreseeable future. We cannot guarantee you that we will not need additional capital to finance our growth and operations or to accelerate our expected growth over the next 12-month period. We have based our estimate of liquidity needs on assumptions that may prove to be incorrect, and we may spend our available financial resources much faster than we currently anticipate. Adequate funds, whether obtained through financial markets or collaborative or other arrangements with water providers, corporate partners or from other sources, may not be available when needed or on terms acceptable to us. We also may need to raise additional funds in order to fund more rapid expansion, to develop new and enhanced technologies, to develop and implement our technology+services model, to respond to competitive pressures or to acquire complementary technologies or assets. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of additional common stock, other equity securities or indebtedness, the percentage ownership of our then-current shareholders may be diluted substantially and the equity or debt securities issued to new investors may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the holders of our then-existing capital stock. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop new products or services or otherwise respond to competitive pressures. Such inability could prevent us from maintaining or increasing our business, result in significant harm to our financial condition and prospects and negatively affect our stock price. We may incur indebtedness that contains terms that place restrictions on the operation of our business; our failure to comply with these terms could put us in default, which would harm our business and operations. We may incur indebtedness in the future that contains a number of significant covenants. These covenants may limit our ability to, among other things, do the following: • incur additional indebtedness; • merge, consolidate or dispose of our assets; • pay dividends or repurchase our capital stock; • change our line of business; • accept any prepayments under or otherwise modify contracts with our customers; • enter into transactions with our affiliates; and • grant liens on our assets. If we were to incur such indebtedness, a material breach of any of these covenants would result in a default under this indebtedness which could result in significant harm to our business and operations. Our customers may need financing to purchase our systems, which exposes us to additional business and credit risks. Availability and cost of financing are significant factors that affect demand for our systems and services. Many of our customers can purchase our systems only when financing is available at a reasonable cost. Some customers seek to acquire our systems and services through a long-term contract. We often rely on third parties to purchase the systems that are then subject to long-term contracts with our customers. In certain cases, we will indemnify the third party for any financial damages caused by our default under our long-term services 31 Table of Contents agreement with our customer. This exposes us to potential additional costs in the event of our failure to perform. In addition, if we are unable to identify third parties that will purchase our systems in connection with the placement of our systems with municipal or industrial customers, we would be faced with either keeping these systems on our balance sheet or requiring our customers to purchase the equipment outright. In the latter case, this may delay or terminate the sale to our customer, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. We have recorded and will record non-cash expense in future periods that result in a decrease in our net income for a given period. As required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, we record expense for the fair value of stock options and restricted stock granted and this expense is reflected in our operating results. We rely on stock options to motivate current employees and attract new employees. As a result of the requirement to expense stock options, we may choose to reduce our reliance on stock options as a motivation tool. If we reduce our use of stock options, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified employees. However, if we do not reduce our reliance on stock options, our reported net loss may increase or our reported net income may decrease. We have also applied the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment, to warrants issued to lenders and other third parties including Cross Atlantic Partners, Aqua America and BWCA. The fair value of these warrants is expensed over the period of the related agreements, as appropriate. As a result, we recognized expense in 2005 and 2006 which affected our interest expense or selling, general and administrative expense, depending upon the nature of the underlying transaction. In May 2006, we repaid our indebtedness. The remaining fair value of the associated warrants attributed to the debt was charged to interest expense during that period. In future periods, we will recognize expense for the fair value of the warrants issued to third parties other than the lenders. Early completion of the third party agreements under which the warrants were issued will accelerate the recognition of this expense. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting and may not be able to report financial results accurately. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting and have determined that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2007 (see Item 9A.—“Controls and Procedures”). We cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses, significant deficiencies and control deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. We have incurred and expect to incur substantial expenses relating to the remediation of the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting may in the future be limited by a variety of factors including without limitation: • simple errors; • delay in upgrading financial software system; and • the possibility that any enhancements to disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls may still not be adequate to assure timely and accurate financial information. If we fail to achieve and maintain effective controls and procedures for financial reporting, we could be unable to provide timely and accurate financial information which may have an adverse effect on our company and the trading price of our common stock. 32 Table of Contents We intend to pursue, but may not be able to identify, finance or successfully complete, strategic acquisitions. Our growth strategy includes the pursuit of acquisitions. We may not be able to identify acceptable opportunities or complete acquisitions of targets identified in a timely manner or on acceptable terms. Acquisitions involve a number of risks, including the following: • our management’s attention will be diverted from our existing business while evaluating acquisitions and thereafter while integrating the operations and personnel of the new business into our business; • we may experience adverse short-term effects on our operating results; • we may be unable to successfully and rapidly integrate the new businesses, personnel and products with our existing business, including financial reporting, management and information technology systems; • we may experience higher than anticipated costs of integration and unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures; • an acquisition may be in a market or geographical area in which we have little experience; • we may have difficulty in retaining key employees, including employees who may have been instrumental to the success or growth of the acquired business; and • we may use a substantial amount of our cash, common stock and other financial resources to consummate an acquisition. We recently acquired MPT, which is located in Tennessee, for approximately $12.2 million, consisting of $6.9 million in cash and 462,746 shares of our common stock with a fair value of $5.3 million. There can be no assurance that we will achieve higher revenues or benefit from any synergies as a result of the acquisition. In addition, we may require additional debt or equity financing for future acquisitions, and such financing may not be available or on favorable terms, if available at all. We may not be able to successfully integrate or profitably operate any new business we acquire, and we cannot assure you that any such acquisition will meet our expectations. Finally, in the event we decide to discontinue pursuit of a potential acquisition, we will be required to immediately expense all costs incurred in pursuit of the possible acquisition which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the expense is recognized. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We expect that the price of our common stock will fluctuate substantially. The price of our common stock may decline, and the price of our common stock that prevails in the market may be higher or lower than the price you pay, depending on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Factors that could cause fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock include: • failure of our systems or technology to achieve commercial success; • announcements of the introduction of new products or services by us or our competitors; • market conditions in our industry sectors; • developments concerning product development results or intellectual property rights of others; • litigation or public concern about the safety of our systems and services; • fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • securities analyst coverage of our common stock; 33 Table of Contents • deviations in our operating results from estimates; • additions or departures of key personnel; • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; • the outcome of litigation; • general economic trends; or • sales of large blocks of our stock. In addition, the equity markets in general, and the Nasdaq Global Market in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Further, the market prices of securities of water-related companies have been particularly volatile. These broad market and industry factors may affect the market price of our common stock adversely, regardless of our operating performance. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents, as amended and restated, and under Delaware law could delay or discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. Some of these provisions include: • a board of directors divided into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; • a prohibition on stockholder action through written consent; • a requirement that special meetings of stockholders be called only by the chairman of our board of directors, the chief executive officer, the president or by a majority of the total number of authorized directors; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; • a requirement of approval of not less than 66 2/3% of all outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote to amend any bylaws by stockholder action, or to amend specific provisions of our certificate of incorporation; and • the authority of our board of directors to issue preferred stock on terms determined by our board of directors without stockholder approval. In addition, because we are a Delaware corporation, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by the then-current board of directors, including to delay or impede a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving our company. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 34 Table of Contents 