Risk Factors.” Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Also, forward-looking statements represent our management’s beliefs and assumptions only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should read this Annual Report on Form 10-K completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. We assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements publicly, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Basin Water, Inc. designs, builds and implements systems for the treatment of contaminated groundwater, industrial process water, and air streams from municipal and industrial sources. It provides reliable sources of drinking water for many communities, and the ability to comply with environmental standards and recover valuable resources from process and waste water streams. In 2008 and 2007, we derived most of our revenues from designing, assembling and servicing our proprietary ion-exchange systems for the treatment of contaminated groundwater for use as drinking water. Also, in 2008, we continued initiatives, both external and internal, to facilitate our transformation into a water services company focused on development of our technology+services business model. Using this model, we seek opportunities to combine proprietary or specialized technologies with long-term relationships built through performance-based service agreements to meet groundwater treatment, industrial water and wastewater treatment and resource recovery needs. By expanding the array of technologies we offer through our technology+services model beyond our proprietary ion-exchange technology, we believe we can expand the potential pool of customers, markets and geographic areas for our services. In 2008, we derived substantially all of our revenues from our proprietary, ion-exchange, onsite regenerable treatment system. That system reduces groundwater contaminant levels in what we believe is an efficient, flexible and cost-effective manner. Our system produces what we believe are very low waste rates, can effectively treat medium-to-high volume requirements and is capable of removing multiple chemical contaminants at a single site. These systems regenerate the resin by using a salt brine solution to remove the contaminants from the resin so that it can be used again in the ion-exchange process. We market these systems to utilities, cities, municipalities, special districts, real estate developers and other organizations for use in treating groundwater that does not comply with federal or state drinking water regulations due to the presence of chemical contaminants. We are defining our municipal market opportunities in targeted geographic regions and our industrial market opportunities on a national basis. We believe that concerns over specific contaminants throughout the country may also provide opportunities for our technology and services, such as for treatment of chemical contaminants. We are taking steps to become a next generation water services company that succeeds by combining the strengths of our existing businesses and employees with the offering of cutting edge technology and site-tailored solutions. We plan to employ this model across a broad range of treatment scenarios in municipal and industrial markets for the treatment of water and air streams. We make available free of charge through our internet website our press releases, this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K and all other required filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and amendments thereto as soon as reasonably practical after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Our internet website also contains our Code of Ethics. Our principal executive offices are located at 9302 Pittsburgh Ave., Suite 210, Rancho Cucamonga, California 91730, and our telephone number is (888) 481-6811. Our website address is www.basinwater.com. The information on our website is neither part of nor incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Company History Originally incorporated in California in 1999, Basin Water reincorporated in Delaware in connection with our initial public offering which was completed in May 2006. Our operations from 1999 until 2001 consisted 2 Table of Contents primarily of research and development activities, as we developed our proprietary ion-exchange process. Also during this time, we developed a groundwater treatment system for commercialization of our proprietary process and increased our personnel to include additional engineers and sales and marketing personnel. We successfully completed a prototype for our groundwater treatment system in May 2002, and shortly thereafter we assisted one of our customers in submitting an application with the California Department of Health Services (DHS) for a permit to operate our system for treatment of nitrate. In June 2002, our customer received the first permit from DHS for operation of our system to treat groundwater. We also received our first revenues in 2002 from sales of our groundwater treatment system and operations. From 2002 through 2006, we focused our efforts on developing systems that could treat other contaminants, increasing our engineering workforce, developing our sales and marketing force, obtaining patents, and improving our internal finance and accounting capabilities. Beginning in the last quarter of 2006, and continuing throughout 2008, we focused our efforts on becoming a more diversified and predictable growth company by developing our technology+services business model and also implementing internal and external initiatives. Our internal initiatives included: • Recruiting top personnel with an emphasis on people with experience in the water and wastewater industries or in combining technology with performance-based service agreements; • Expanding beyond our base of municipal customers (such as utilities, special districts, municipalities and other similar organizations) to include potential customers in the industrial marketplace (such as oil and gas, power, mining and chemical companies); • Installing business and financial systems to accommodate our growth and new system and service initiatives; • Developing regional sales, process engineering and field service groups aligned with both our municipal and industrial marketplace customers; and • Developing our technology+services offering to include the treatment of a variety of organic and inorganic contaminants. Our external initiatives included the Mobile Process Technology, Co. acquisition, and entering into a strategic alliance with Rohm and Haas Chemicals LLC, among others. In addition, we acquired the assets of a bioreactor and biofilter business, which we refer to as Envirogen, from Shaw Environmental, Inc. and its affiliates, which we refer to as Shaw. Market Opportunity Demand for drinking water treatment technologies and services. Population growth has resulted in increased demand for drinking water in much of the United States. This is a problem throughout the United States but is particularly acute in California and other states in the Southwest United States, which we refer to as the arid West, where population growth and chronic shortages of drinking water have resulted in rapidly increasing demand for drinking water. Though we believe groundwater is a cost-effective and advantageous source of water supply, it is at substantial risk of contamination from a number of chemical contaminants; such as arsenic, nitrate, perchlorate, radium, chromium VI, uranium and radionuclides, as well as organic contaminants, such as methyl tertiary-butyl ether (MTBE), trichloroethylene (TCE) and perchloroethylene (PCE), which have been linked to various cancers, diseases, metabolic disorders and other health problems. Because of these health concerns, the Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, and state regulatory agencies have been active in establishing and lowering 3 Table of Contents maximum containment levels, or MCLs, for contaminants in drinking water to ensure that the public has access to a safe drinking water supply. In addition, improvements in water testing and treatment technologies have allowed the EPA and state regulatory agencies to lower the MCL for certain contaminants. We believe that a market opportunity exists in providing a solution for treatment of groundwater for drinking water. There are few economically attractive alternatives for treating groundwater at the wellhead. Customarily, water providers either shut down a contaminated well or blend the water with non-contaminated water to meet an MCL. Ion-exchange technology is acknowledged as a leading technology for groundwater treatment, including being designated by the DHS and EPA as a “best available technology” for treating groundwater for removal of contaminants. As compared to our ion-exchange technology, we believe many existing contaminant treatment technologies are costly, produce large amounts of waste, or are generally designed for large industrial installations rather than for wellhead treatment. We are actively pursuing opportunities to introduce our groundwater treatments systems across the United States where the opportunity exists to provide our technology+services offerings. Demand for technology+services. We believe our technology+services offerings can be valuable to municipal and industrial customers. We believe there is demand by our customers for an offering that includes our technology combined with a long-term services agreement to provide services and maintenance with our performance guarantee for the life of the agreement. Demand for treatment of wastewater and air streams, water reuse and the recovery of valuable commodities. We also believe there is demand for treatment of wastewater and air streams, water reuse and metals and commodities recovery systems and services. Many industrial facilities face increasingly stringent discharge requirements for industrial wastewater, driving demand for technological solutions like ours for wastewater treatment. We also believe that demand exists for applications through which our customers can reuse and recycle wastewater for process water needed for manufacturing or other industrial uses. Furthermore, we believe there is demand for technologies that are able to recover valuable commodities from wastewater streams. Our Solution and Strengths Basin Water onsite regenerable ion-exchange. Our proprietary onsite regenerable ion-exchange system is designed to treat groundwater contamination at the wellhead. We believe our multiple-bed system provides a safe, reliable and sustainable source of drinking water to our customers. Our system effectively treats water resulting in low waste rates, can be scaled to meet a customer’s requirements and has a small footprint. These systems are installed with telemetry to allow independent functionality. Approximately 58% of our revenues in 2008 were derived from sales and service related to these systems. Our expanded technologies. We have made concerted efforts to expand our technology portfolio beyond proprietary onsite regenerable ion-exchange technology. While our ion-exchange technology continues to have potential in a variety of applications in the groundwater treatment market, we believe that additional opportunities exist for ion-exchange and absorptive media systems utilizing alternative methods of regeneration or media handling, and also technologies that can remove organic contaminants from water. Therefore, during 2007 we sought out and acquired the rights to ion-exchange technologies and other technologies that would enable us to address these opportunities through our September 2007 acquisition of Mobile Process Technology Co., which we refer to as MPT (see Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements), our November 2007 strategic alliance with a wholly owned subsidiary of Rohm and Haas Company named Rohm and Haas Chemicals, LLC, which we refer to as Rohm and Haas, and our 2007 agreement with Purifics ES Inc., which we refer to as Purifics, a licensed engineering firm headquartered in Ontario, Canada. In 2008, we acquired Envirogen, providing us with a bioreactor and biofilter business that includes the design and supply of fluidized bed, membrane, and suspended carrier bioreactors for the treatment of groundwater, wastewater and air streams in industrial, municipal and federal applications. 4 Table of Contents We believe these expanded technologies will enable us to address a large market of potential customers. Our experienced management team. One of our developing strengths is our management team. Beginning in late 2006 and continuing into 2008, we bolstered our existing management team by hiring veterans from the water industry as well as other leading industries that have experience with technology and service offering business models. Most notably, our President and Chief Executive Officer joined Basin Water in October 2006 and brought the knowledge and experience to develop our business model. In addition, we have hired five senior managers all of whom had past experience in the water, wastewater and other related industries. We believe the management team we have assembled has significantly strengthened our ability to achieve our goal to develop and implement our technology+services business model. Our Strategy Next generation water services company. Our goal is to define, test and then implement the strategies necessary to become a “next generation” water services company—a company that can profitably offer predictable, competitive life-cycle costs. To do that we believe we must develop offerings and select opportunities that will generally involve pairing a proprietary or specialized technology with a service agreement to meet a defined set of customer needs. To date we continue to make progress as a provider of groundwater treatment systems and services to our customers throughout the United States, with an initial focus on the arid West. We plan to achieve these goals through the following strategies: Develop and implement our technology+services model. We have developed and will now implement our technology+services business model that combines proprietary or specialized technologies with long-term relationships built through performance-based service agreements to meet groundwater treatment, industrial water and wastewater treatment, and resource recovery needs. Over time, we may also seek to offer this technology+services model to the technologies acquired in our Envirogen acquisition. Extend our business and geographic reach throughout the United States. We have expanded our business reach beyond the arid West into other areas of the United States. In 2007, we began an internal organizational change and expansion through the assignment of dedicated management, sales, marketing, and technical support create five regions (West, Southwest, Southeast, Great Lakes and Northeast). In addition to our West regional office in Rancho Cucamonga, we developed a footprint in the Southeast with our facility in Memphis, a Southwest regional office in Houston and a sales presence in the Great Lakes. In 2008 we continued to expand our business reach through our Envirogen acquisition, which provided us with a footprint in the Northeast. We believe sales and marketing teams at the local level will be more effective because of their knowledge of and relationships with the municipalities within their region. Expand our business by continuing to develop strategic relationships with companies serving and supplying the water industry on a national basis. We have identified and will continue to identify companies servicing and supplying the water industry on a national basis that can provide strategic benefits to the marketing of our groundwater treatment system. As part of this strategy, we have entered into a strategic alliance agreement with Rohm and Haas. We believe that by partnering with companies like Rohm and Haas, we can efficiently leverage their existing infrastructure to provide our technology+services offering in new markets. Our Technology and Services Our ion-exchange treatment systems. Our groundwater treatment services generally utilize our ion-exchange technology. To treat contaminated groundwater, the water is pumped from the wellhead into our system which contains a bed of ion-exchange resin. Through the ion-exchange process, the contaminants remain on the resin while the clean water exits the system and enters the drinking water distribution system. This process continues until the resin inside the bed is saturated with contaminants. We offer our customers three types of ion-exchange treatment systems—onsite regenerable systems, offsite regeneration systems, and disposable resin systems. The primary difference among these three types of systems is how resin is used in the treatment process. 5 Table of Contents For our onsite regenerable system, once the resin bed is saturated with contaminants, sometimes referred to as being spent or exhausted, a saturated salt brine solution is pumped into the tank which regenerates the resin onsite. For our offsite regeneration systems, we remove the spent resin to be regenerated offsite, and replenish the system with regenerated resin. The spent resin is transported for processing, such as at our Memphis central regeneration facility. There the resin is regenerated to be returned to service at the customer’s site. For some contaminants, such as radionuclides, regeneration is not feasible. In those situations we use a disposable resin system whereby we dispose of the resin in accordance with the particular regulation applicable to the contaminant being removed. Our ion-exchange treatment systems are assembled on a build-to-order basis using raw materials from suppliers typically located in the United States and from predominantly “off-the-shelf” components for which there are generally multiple suppliers. In the past, we assembled our onsite regenerable and disposable ion-exchange treatment systems at our facility in Rancho Cucamonga, California and our offsite regenerable systems at our facility in Memphis, Tennessee. In 2008, we closed our assembling facility in Rancho Cucamonga, and we plan to outsource all future assembly operations that were previously conducted at our Rancho Cucamonga location. Our customers must obtain a license and/or a permit from the applicable state regulatory agency in order to operate each system that we install at their wellheads. We work with our customers to secure required licenses and permits from state regulatory agencies, including assisting with the completion of the license or permit application and responding to inquiries or requests from these regulators regarding our system. Our onsite regenerable, and certain disposable resin systems, use a multiple-bed system design, providing flexibility to meet different volume requirements. These systems allow resin beds to be sequenced in and out of service to optimize performance and offer users a wide range of production rates up to 12,000 gpm. Typically our systems are installed adjacent to a wellhead. The systems use the well pump’s pressure to move water through the ion-exchange process. Our onsite regenerable systems require at least one waste brine tank to be placed onsite. The brine tank is connected to a waste line that allows for a contracted waste removal company to remove the brine without entering the well site. For our offsite regenerable systems, which service low flow wells, there is no onsite brine tank. Instead, we remove the resin vessel from the customer’s site for regeneration at our facility. All of our onsite regenerable systems and some of our offsite regenerable systems and disposable resin systems are fully automatic and use a Program Logic Controller, or PLC, that runs advanced control programs to maximize treatment system performance and reliability while also minimizing waste products. Our technology+services offering. The exact technology+services offering we use in a given situation is dependent upon the customer’s needs. Our most frequently offered technology to date is our onsite regenerable ion-exchange system, which we incorporate into our offering by combining our treatment system with an ongoing services agreement. This agreement incorporates a variety of services requested by our customers. For our offsite regenerable systems and disposable resin systems, our service component might include such services as replacing media, conducting vessel exchanges on a periodic basis as the resin becomes exhausted, performing regeneration services at our central facility in Memphis, periodic testing of the system and ongoing support as required to optimize system operations. We anticipate that service contracts for our expanded technology portfolio may include services similar to those listed above, and may also include the management of site-based operations involving a treatment system. Customers Historically, we have marketed our ion-exchange treatment systems and services to groundwater customers that included utilities, municipalities, cities and other organizations that supply drinking water. By enhancing our 6 Table of Contents technology+services offerings to include smaller ion-exchange treatment systems, offsite regeneration and organic removal capabilities, we believe we have expanded our potential customer base in the municipal market. This expansion of our offerings also addresses industrial customers’ needs for wastewater treatment, air treatment, water reuse and the recovery of valuable commodities from wastewater streams including for oil and gas, power, mining and chemical companies. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, we had 77 and 88 systems under binding contracts as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2008 Quantity atBeginningof Year SystemsCommenced SystemsPlaced inService DemoSystemsReturned SystemsReturnedor Cancelled Quantity atEndof Year Systems installed and generating revenue underwater service agreements 46 — 4 — (1 ) 49 Systems installed under interim demonstration agreements 2 — — (2 ) — — Systems in various stages of deployment 40 — (4 ) — (8 ) 28 Total systems 88 — — (2 ) (9 ) 77 Year Ended December 31, 2007 Quantity atBeginningof Year SystemsCommenced SystemsPlaced inService DemoSystemsReturned SystemsReturnedor Cancelled Quantity atEndof Year Systems installed and generating revenue underwater service agreements 33 — 13 — — 46 Systems installed under interim demonstration agreements 5 — — (3 ) — 2 Systems in various stages of deployment 29 24 (13 ) — — 40 Total systems 67 24 — (3 ) — 88 In addition, we had 22 systems in progress in our Industrial and Envirogen business at December 31, 2008, which are for system sales only and do not involve related water service agreements: Systems under contract and in progress 19 Systems under contract not yet started 3 Total 22 The following customers accounted for more than 10% of our revenues in the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 East Valley Water District 17 % * * Baldy Mesa Water District * 24 % 38 % California Water Service Group * 12 % * Shaw Environmental, Inc. (1) * * 21 % Totals 17 % 36 % 59 % * Indicates a less than 10% customer during such period. (1) We were formerly parties to an arrangement pursuant to which Shaw provided site work, bonding and other services to Coachella Valley Water District. 7 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2008, our revenues backlog, assuming no further renewal of our long-term contracts, was $41.7 million, compared to our revenues backlog of $38.4 million at December 31, 2007. Competition We believe successful competition in our industry and markets is dependent on the following factors: (1) superior technology and (2) customer relationships. Superior technology is an important factor for competition in our industry. The EPA has reviewed and accepted certain well-established technologies for use in drinking water applications and designated them as “best available technology.” Ion-exchange technology has already been designated as a “best available technology” by the EPA and by many state regulatory agencies. Ion-exchange technology is also frequently sought for industrial applications. We believe our rights to proprietary technologies provide us a competitive advantage in the municipal and industrial markets. There are significant competitive challenges even for companies relying on superior and cost-effective technologies. There are a large number of established and well-capitalized companies that already implement cost-effective technologies such as ion exchange in their solutions, and many of these large companies have strong and longstanding relationships with customers in the marketplace. We believe these relationships are critical in establishing credibility and in maintaining steady business. This is particularly true in the municipal market where a local presence and knowledge of the region contributes to a company’s ability to effectively market its services to municipalities. We are developing relationships with municipal customers on a local basis by implementing our regional structure. We believe our geographic expansion plans, placing our marketing and sales force closer to our customer locations, coupled with the ongoing interactions between our field service force and customers, also provide us with a competitive advantage. For those existing customers, our field services staff is often our onsite ambassadors who are able to spot and kindle future opportunities to increase the number of systems, or expand on our existing services at a customer site. Finally, many of our current and potential competitors have significantly stronger financial resources, larger marketing and service organizations and significantly greater market expertise than we have. However, we believe that we can compete favorably based on the efficacy of our proprietary technology, our newly acquired technological expertise, our technology+services business model, and our significant relationships with our customers. Sales and Marketing We market our technology+services offerings through a direct sales force, independent contractors and strategic relationships. In addition, members of our management team leverage their numerous business contacts to capitalize on opportunities to sell our technology+services offerings. Regulatory changes also trigger sales opportunities. For example, in 2006 and 2007, changes in MCLs, especially arsenic and radium, have caused customers to seek solutions such as ours to assist in their efforts to keep their groundwater supplies in compliance with regulatory standards. As a result, we periodically receive inquiries and are asked for referrals about our systems and services. Finally, our existing client base refers our services to other water providers. We also secure business through a procurement bid process in which we compete with others in qualification and proposal processes. We have expanded our sales and marketing efforts beyond the arid West into other geographic areas of the United States. Beginning in late 2007 and continuing in 2008, we made organizational changes to assign dedicated management, sales and service, marketing, and technical support to create five regions (West, Southwest, Southeast, Great Lakes and Northeast). In addition to our West regional office in Rancho 8 Table of Contents Cucamonga, California, we developed a footprint in the Southeast with our facility in Memphis, Tennessee, a Southwest regional office in Houston, Texas in mid-2008, and a sales presence in the Great Lakes area. In 2008, we continued to expand our business reach through our Envirogen acquisition, which provided us with a footprint in the Northeast. We believe sales and marketing teams at the local level will be more effective because of their knowledge of and relationships with the municipalities within their region. We have expanded our sales and marketing efforts through strategic relationships, including the Rohm and Haas alliance and the agreement with Purifics. Our sales team plans to use Rohm and Haas’ expertise and contacts in the water treatment industry to develop and manage our relationships with customers and our strategic relationships. Other Significant Transactions Rohm and Haas Alliance Rohm and Haas Company is a global company that develops advanced materials for customers around the world. Its business spans the world: North America, Latin America, Europe, Middle East, Africa, and Asia-Pacific, with more than 100 manufacturing, technical research and customer service sites in 27 countries. It had annual sales of approximately US $9.5 billion in 2008. It is a publicly owned company whose stock is traded under the “ROH” symbol on the New York Stock Exchange. On November 14, 2007, we entered into an exclusive alliance with Rohm and Haas to provide technology solutions and service offerings in both the drinking water market and certain areas of the industrial market. We expect the alliance to also develop new technologies to address other groundwater treatment issues, such as produced water from oil and gas operations and emerging water recovery applications. Each member of the alliance will contribute its respective core strengths to the alliance: Rohm and Haas its research and development capabilities, global infrastructure and ion exchange resins and our company its systems designs, channels to market and service capabilities. We expect the alliance to initially market offerings in the United States and Canada using our technology+services business model to provide guaranteed performance and guaranteed costs over the lifetime of a project. As part of the alliance, we have exclusive access to Rohm and Haas ion-exchange resin technology for certain selected markets. The initial term of the alliance is five years. The parties agreed to renew the alliance agreement if at the end of the initial term the alliance has met projected budget, earnings and growth projections. Investment in Empire Water Corporation (Empire) In May 2007, we entered into an agreement to acquire certain water rights and related assets. In December 2007, we sold to Empire the rights to purchase certain collective assets from unrelated parties including (a) a canal located in San Bernardino and Riverside counties in Southern California that is approximately eighteen miles in length, (b) rights to pump water from the San Bernardino Basin, and (c) other equipment and tangible and intangible personal property of the sellers. As consideration for the sale of these assets, we received 6,000,000 shares of Empire common stock, which represents an ownership interest of approximately 32% in Empire as of December 31, 2008. See Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included in this report for additional detail. In conjunction with the February 2009 settlement of a claim by one of our customers, we transferred 150,000 shares of Empire common stock to this customer as partial consideration of this claim (see Notes 11 and 25 to our consolidated financial statements). After the transfer of this common stock in 2009, we now own approximately 31% of the outstanding stock of Empire. Envirogen Acquisition On September 18, 2008, we acquired Envirogen, Shaw’s bioreactor and biofilter business, for approximately $1.5 million cash (subject to adjustment for working capital) plus the settlement of a disputed claim against Shaw for amounts we claimed to be owed by Shaw. The bioreactor and biofilter business includes the design and supply of fluidized bed, membrane, and suspended carrier bioreactors for the treatment of groundwater and wastewater streams in industrial, municipal and federal applications. The business also includes the design and supply of biofilters for the treatment of air streams from municipalities and industry for the removal of odor-causing and other contaminants. See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements included in this report for additional detail. 9 Table of Contents Government Regulation Our customers are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations concerning emissions to the air, discharges to waterways and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials and also are subject to other federal and state laws regarding health and safety matters. Under the contracts with our customers, we assist them in meeting these regulations and obtaining any required permits and/or licenses in order to implement our systems. These laws and regulations are constantly evolving, and it is difficult to predict the effect these laws and regulations may have on us or our customers in the future. In the United States, many different federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the treatment of contaminated groundwater, wastewater, air streams, disposal of attendant wastes, and distribution of potable water. Changes in such laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. The increased interest in the treatment of contaminated groundwater due to increased attention to the adverse health effects from contaminated drinking water may result in intervention by governmental regulatory agencies in the United States or elsewhere under existing or newly enacted legislation and in the imposition of restrictions, fees or charges on users and providers of products and services in this area. Conversely, the failure of the EPA or state regulatory agencies to act on a timely basis to set interim or permanent standards for pollutants, or to delay effective dates for standards for pollutants, grant waivers of compliance with such standards or take other discretionary actions not to enforce these standards, may decrease demand for our systems and services and thus harm our business significantly. Each groundwater treatment solution, including our contaminant treatment systems, must be permitted by applicable state regulatory agencies prior to use of such systems by our customers. Typically, our customers apply for a permit from the applicable state regulatory agency to use our systems, and we assist our customers in completion of the permit application process. The application process for our system is time consuming and often involves several information requests to our customers by the regulatory agencies with respect to our systems. Furthermore, we cannot predict the impact of changing drinking water standards on the approval of our technology for groundwater treatment. The MCLs for contaminants are subject to review and revision by the EPA and applicable state regulatory agencies. The MCLs may be changed to levels below that which our systems can treat on a cost-effective basis, and if we are unable to design systems that remove contaminants below the designated MCL, then the state regulatory agencies will fail to approve our systems. Without regulatory approval, our systems could not be used by our customers, and we would be required to develop technology that meets any revised MCLs. Although our customers retain title to the brine waste generated by our systems, we facilitate the removal of the waste with a licensed waste disposal service and in some cases contract directly with the waste transporter on behalf of our customers. As such, we may become subject to the provisions of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, or CERCLA. CERCLA, which is also known as Superfund, addresses problems created by the release or threatened release of hazardous substances (as defined in CERCLA) into the environment. CERCLA imposes strict, joint and several liability for remediation of certain disposal sites on: current owners and operators of the site, on former site owners and operators at the time of disposal, on parties who arranged for disposal or treatment or arranged for transportation for disposal or treatment of hazardous substances at the site, and on parties that transport hazardous substances to a site. Because CERCLA liability is joint and several, the costs of a CERCLA cleanup can be substantial. Because liability under CERCLA is strict, it is not premised upon the violation of any law, statute, rule or regulation but is rather based upon a party’s status as an owner, operator, transporter or arranger (as those terms are described above). Such liability can therefore be based upon the release or threatened release, even as a result of lawful, unintentional and non-negligent action, of any one of the more than 700 “hazardous substances” listed by the EPA, even in small amounts. 10 Table of Contents Our Memphis Facility. Our facility in Memphis supports services that include catalyst recovery, service exchange programs for containers of spent filtration media, and media processing and regeneration of ion-exchange media for other water service providers and end users that have applied the media to capture or recover various metals, organics, or inorganic compounds. Because our facility does not accept or receive materials that have been profiled as hazardous wastes, it does not maintain environmental permits as a treatment, storage, and disposal facility for hazardous wastes as defined by the EPA and the State of Tennessee. The Memphis facility performs its own independent waste stream profiling and acceptance criteria review to ensure that all materials received for processing and regeneration are applicable to the Memphis facility processes and are in accordance with the facility’s environmental permits. The Memphis facility’s environmental permits include a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) wastewater discharge permit to discharge process wastewater to the City of Memphis, Tennessee’s publicly owned treatment works (POTW), an NPDES Stormwater Discharge permit issued by the State of Tennessee, and Special Solid Waste Disposal Permits issued by the facility’s solid waste disposal contractor for the land disposal of certain non-hazardous special waste streams. Since the Memphis facility is also a Small Quantity Generator (SQG) of hazardous waste, we maintain an EPA generator registration and identification number for their hazardous waste disposal activities. We are also pursuing business opportunities involving the removal of radionuclides from groundwater and/or industrial wastewater streams. Our plans are to sell or lease the removal systems to third party customers, with an associated service contract for removal and disposal of the resin material upon exhaustion. We would use a licensed subcontractor for transportation and disposal of the media. These activities would fall under regulations governed by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC). All subcontractors, transporters, and disposal facilities would be required to possess the required NRC permits and licenses to engage in these roles. However, should any of the spent radionuclide-containing resins also contain characteristic or listed hazardous wastes, the resins would be classified as “mixed wastes” and would no longer be regulated by the NRC, but, would be subject to the EPA’s Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) hazardous waste regulations. Given our Memphis facility’s onsite chemical inventory and disposal and/or release of chemical substances / wastes / residues as a part of doing business, the Memphis facility is subject to annual reporting requirements as specified by the EPA Superfund Amendment and Reauthorization Act (SARA) (specifically the SARA 312, Tier II Hazardous Chemical Inventory, and SARA 313, Toxic Release Inventory, regulations). To the extent we do not comply with the various laws and regulations applicable to our activities, we may be subject to fines, regulatory action or private litigation that may adversely affect our business. Research and Development Product development activities focus on lab and project related field work that includes 1) the design and evaluation of experimental ion-exchange processes and groundwater treatment systems for the removal of various contaminants, and 2) the development of processes involving an array of technologies useful in our expansion from an ion-exchange company to a commercial water treatment company. These development activities include piloting efforts on applications related to the removal of nitrate, arsenic and radionuclides from groundwater from groundwater. Additional activities include the piloting of media-based, and other, treatment technologies for the removal of synthetic and naturally occurring organic contaminants. As a result of our acquisition of Envirogen in September 2008, we have enhanced our internal research and development capabilities to include process development related to laboratory and field scale pilot capabilities for the treatment of water and wastewater for the removal of both organic and inorganic constituents for groundwater remediation, wastewater treatment and potable water applications. We also acquired through Envirogen development capabilities for treatment methods for air streams containing odor-causing and other contaminants. 11 Table of Contents We had a sponsored research arrangement with the University of Nevada Las Vegas (UNLV) under which they were researching and testing certain aspects related to the regeneration of exchange resins that may be useful in a technology for biologically removing and destroying perchlorate load from spend ion-exchange resins, which we refer to as the BIONExchange™ process. Any intellectual property developed by us under the agreement is owned by us, any intellectual property developed by UNLV under the agreement is owned by UNLV, and intellectual property developed jointly will be jointly owned by the parties. Due to uncertainties surrounding the future commercial viability of this technology, we wrote off certain related costs totaling approximately $0.7 million during the quarter ended September 30, 2008 (see Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements). Our arrangement with UNLV was discontinued in the fourth quarter of 2008. Our total research and development expenses were $1.2 million in 2008 and $0.6 million in both 2007 and 2006, respectively. In 2008, such costs included the write-off of certain assets related to the development of our proprietary BionExchange technology. Management determined this impairment was required due to uncertainties regarding the future commercial viability of the technology, which were in part, due to the economics of competing technologies with respect to biological processes intended to reduce the costs of treatment of contaminated water. We intend to continue our active development efforts internally and through our existing strategic alliances and our Envirogen operations to strengthen the position of our groundwater and other treatment technologies through the development of new and improved processes. The principal goals of our program are maintaining our position as a technological leader in solving customers’ problems with technology+services, and acquiring access to and developing new products and services. Intellectual Property Our intellectual property is the result of many years of research and development efforts as well as strategic acquisitions and contract relationships. We have pursued a broad strategy of protecting our developed and owned intellectual property, including seeking patent protection, safeguarding trade secrets, registering trademarks and using non-disclosure and other contractual agreements to protect other intellectual property rights. We have developed what we believe to be an innovative process design that significantly improves the economics of using ion exchange for groundwater treatment. As of December 31, 2008, we have two issued United States patents directed to a system and process for the removal of arsenic, one issued United States patent directed to a process for the removal of nitrate, one issued patent directed to a system and process for the removal of chromium, and two issued United States patents directed to processes for the removal of perchlorate. We also have three issued patents in the United States and in five European countries directed to our BIONExchange™ system and process, a proprietary process for biologically removing and destroying perchlorate load from used ion-exchange resins and alternatively from perchlorate-laden ion-exchange resin regeneration brines. We currently are developing a process through which we hope to remove radium from potable water sources, and for which we may seek patent protection. In addition, we hold five pending United States utility patent applications, two pending United States provisional patent applications, nine pending foreign patent applications and one PCT on various aspects of our treatment processes. Our patents and patent applications as a group are related to ion exchange and the treatment of one or more of the following contaminants: • Arsenic • Calcium • Chromium VI • Magnesium • Nitrate • Perchlorate • Selenium 12 Table of Contents We employ the Basin Water IX™ software program for the operation of our system. We also use this software program for the design of our system to determine the most efficient operating parameters for our system based upon the contaminant profile of the water source being treated. We own federal trademark registrations for the marks Basin Water® and Basin Water IX®. As part of our business procedures, we typically enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements, or have confidentiality provisions in agreements with our employees, independent contractors and consultants, and non-disclosure agreements with our customers, partners, independent contractors and consultants. MPT, which we acquired in September 2007, holds five United States patents and eleven foreign patents related to various chemical manufacturing processes. These patents relate to 1) an improved process for the recovery of ethylene glycol from spent glycol generated in the manufacture of polyethylene terephthalate, 2) an improved separation process for the continuous catalytic oxidation of aromatic alkyls for the production of aromatic carboxylic acids in a liquid solvent medium, 3) an apparatus and method for the purification of waste wash water derived from the production of aromatic acids, 4) a method of polyester manufacturing using cross flow membrane filtration, and 5) a process for the recovery of molybdenum catalyst from the epoxidation reaction product of olefins with organic hydroperoxides. MPT also has three pending United States patent applications related to processes for the treatment of the following contaminants: ammonia, arsenic and radium. MPT also has a pending patent application for the treatment of various contaminants using electrocoagulation. The pending patent applications related to the treatment of radium, arsenic and ammonia have been assigned to us pursuant to our acquisition of MPT. In 2009, we plan to have the other patents and pending patent applications assigned to us. MPT also holds trademark registrations for Hypersorb®, Hyperflux® and Chromasep®. In 2008, with the Envirogen acquisition, we acquired rights to a patent portfolio relating generally to bioreactors, biofiltration systems, and related technologies useful for the treatment of wastewater and the reduction of contaminants. That patent portfolio includes 12 United States patents and 10 foreign patents related to technologies including, for example, mechanically mixed packed bed bioreactors, biomass separation apparatus and methods, biofiltration apparatus and methods, systems and methods for withdrawing permeate through a filter and for cleaning the filter in situ, fluidized bed reactors, systems and methods for inoculating biological reactors, and apparatus and methods for controlling biomass growth in suspended carrier bioreactors. That portfolio also includes 8 pending United States patent applications, 6 foreign patent applications and 3 PCTs related to these technologies. Employees As of December 31, 2008, we employed 83 full-time employees, one part-time employee and 20 employees leased from Shaw pursuant to our Envirogen acquisition. These leased employees became employees of the Company effective January 1, 2009. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining agreement. There are no pending labor-related legal actions against us filed with any state or federal agency. We believe our employee relations are good. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to the Restatement The restatement of our consolidated financial statements has had a material adverse impact on us, including increased costs and the increased possibility of legal or administrative proceedings. Our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2007 and for the first quarter of 2008 were restated. As a result, we have become subject to a number of additional risks and uncertainties. We have incurred substantial unanticipated costs for accounting and legal fees in 2008 in connection with the restatement of our consolidated financial statements. We filed an amendment to our Annual Report on 13 Table of Contents Form 10-K/A to restate our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, and we filed an amendment to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q/A to restate our consolidated financial statements for the quarter ended March 31, 2008. The restatement has caused and may continue to cause a significant diversion of management’s time and attention. We have been named in a number of lawsuits that began in December 2007. As a result of the restatement of our 2007 and 2006, the plaintiffs in these lawsuits have made additional claims, expanded existing claims and expanded the time periods covered by the complaints. Other plaintiffs may bring additional actions with other claims, based on the restatement. As a result, we may incur additional substantial defense costs regardless of their outcome. Likewise, such events might cause an additional diversion of our management’s time and attention. If we do not prevail in any such actions, we could be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has instituted an investigation with respect to the Company’s accounting and related disclosure and other matters. The Company is cooperating with the SEC. This investigation has diverted and will likely divert more of our management’s time and attention and cause us to incur substantial costs. Such investigation could result in the SEC seeking various penalties and relief, including, without limitation, civil injunctive relief and/or civil monetary penalties or administrative relief. The nature of the relief or remedies the SEC may seek, if any, cannot be predicted at this time and can lead to further substantial costs and diversion of management time and attention. Failure to satisfy the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Global Market could result in our common stock being delisted, which may have an adverse effect on our stock price. Timely filing of annual and periodic reports with the SEC is required for continued listing under Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4310(c) (14). In addition, the Nasdaq Global Market imposes, among other requirements, minimum bid and public float requirements. The price of our common stock must close at or above $1.00 to comply with Nasdaq’s minimum bid requirement for continued listing on the Nasdaq Global Market. Our common stock has been trading at a price below $1.00 per share. On October 16, 2008, The Nasdaq Stock Market announced the immediate suspension of its enforcement of the rules requiring a minimum $1.00 closing bid price and that it will not take any action to delist any security traded on the Nasdaq Global Market that fails to comply with the minimum $1.00 closing bid price requirement until January 19, 2009. On March 23, 2009, The Nasdaq Stock Market announced further suspension of its enforcement of these rules until July 2009. Consequently, for as long as Nasdaq’s rule suspension remains in effect, Nasdaq will not delist our stock if the closing bid price for our common stock falls below $1.00 per share during the rule suspension period. If the closing bid price of our common stock continues to fail to meet Nasdaq’s minimum closing bid price requirement at any time on or after July 20, 2009, or if we otherwise fail to meet all other applicable Nasdaq requirements, Nasdaq may make a determination to delist our common stock. If our common stock is delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market, our common stock would be traded over-the-counter, more commonly known as OTC. OTC transactions involve risks in addition to those associated with transactions in securities traded on the Nasdaq Global Market. Many OTC stocks trade less frequently and in smaller volumes than securities traded on the Nasdaq Global Market. Accordingly, our common stock would be less liquid than it would otherwise be, and the value of our common stock could decrease. Finally, any such delisting could also adversely affect our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations and/or result in the loss of confidence by investors, customers, suppliers and employees. Material weaknesses or deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting could harm stockholder and business confidence on our financial reporting, our ability to obtain financing and other aspects of our business. Maintaining an effective system of internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. As of and for the years ended December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, we have restated our consolidated financial statements, including each of the quarterly periods in 2007 and 2006, and we 14 Table of Contents filed an amendment to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q/A to restate our consolidated financial statements for the first quarter of 2008. As previously reported, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting that resulted from certain control deficiencies stemming from several significant changes within our Company, including changes in the organization structure, new information systems and our acquisition of MPT in the third quarter of 2007. In connection with the restatement of our consolidated financial statements, we have identified the following additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting: • A lack of sufficient personnel with appropriate knowledge, experience and training in applying GAAP to transactions and the correct application of revenue recognition principles required under GAAP; • A lack of effective checks and balances between the former CFO and accounting and legal functions with respect to the negotiation, structuring and accounting for transactions, including water treatment unit sales and water service agreements; • A failure to maintain adequately organized business records and complete documentation for sales contracts, many of which lacked execution dates, signatures by Company or counterparty representatives; the use of draft or non-standard arrangements; and the lack of adequate written agreements to memorialize significant transactions; • Insufficient information systems and processes to accumulate information to timely identify and address business and accounting issues; • A lack of sufficiently detailed written accounting policies and procedures with respect to the timing and recognition of sales transactions and an insufficient process at the time of the transactions to monitor compliance with such policies and procedures; and • A failure to maintain an effective internal audit function. As a result of these material weaknesses, management’s assessment concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting continue to be ineffective. Some of the identified material weaknesses have not been fully addressed. It is also possible that additional material weaknesses will be identified in the future. Until we remediate the remaining material weaknesses, we have the risk of another restatement. We have incurred and expect to incur substantial expenses relating to the remediation of the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting may in the future be limited by a variety of factors including without limitation: • failure of the effectiveness of our policies, procedures and information systems and processes; • delay in upgrading financial software system; and • the possibility that any enhancements to disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls may still not be adequate to assure timely and accurate financial information. Because we have concluded that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective and our independent registered public accountants issued an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, and to the extent we identify future weaknesses or deficiencies, there could be material misstatements in our consolidated financial statements and we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. As a result, our ability to obtain additional financing, or obtain additional financing on favorable terms, could be materially and adversely affected, which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business, our financial condition and the market value of our securities. In addition, perceptions of us could also be adversely affected among customers, lenders, investors, securities analysts and others. Current material weaknesses or any future weaknesses or deficiencies could also hurt confidence in our business and consolidated financial statements and our ability to do business with these groups. 15 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business We will need additional capital to continue to operate our business, and if we cannot obtain additional financing, we may not be able to continue operations. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $11.5 million in cash and cash equivalents and as of March 30, 2009, we had approximately $8.5 million in cash and cash equivalents (excluding cash balances resulting from the consolidation of VL Capital, which funds of VL Capital are not available to us to support our liquidity needs). We have experienced significant negative cash flows from operating and investing activities between 2006 and 2008, and we expect to use additional cash for such activities for the foreseeable future. Our net losses incurred during the past two fiscal years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 amounted to $32.5 million and $18.3 million, respectively. Unless and until we are able to generate sufficient revenues from our system sales and contract services, we expect such losses to continue in the future. Therefore, our ability to continue to operate our business over the next 12 months is highly dependent on the amount of cash and cash equivalents on hand combined with our ability to raise capital to support our future operations. Additional capital, whether obtained through financial markets (in the form of public or private debt or equity) or collaborative or other arrangements with water providers, corporate partners or from other sources, may not be available at all, when needed, or on terms acceptable to us. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of additional common stock, other equity securities or indebtedness, the percentage ownership of our then-current stockholders may be diluted substantially and the equity or debt securities issued to new investors may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the holders of our then-existing capital stock. The U.S. credit markets have recently experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions which have caused spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive, and in certain cases have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of debt financing. These events in the credit markets as well as deteriorating market conditions have also had an adverse effect on other financial markets in the United States, including the equity markets, which we expect will make it very difficult and costly for us to raise capital through the issuance of common stock or other equity securities. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to continue operations, resulting in significant harm to our financial condition and prospects and a decline in our stock price. This raises substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent auditors’ report for the year ended December 31, 2008 includes an explanatory paragraph stating that our recurring losses from operations and negative cash flows raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. If we are unable to obtain additional financing on commercially reasonable terms, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected and we may be unable to continue as a going concern. The question about our ability to continue as a going concern may also limit our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms or at all, and may limit our ability to obtain new business due to potential customers’ concern about our ability to provide water treatment and other services. If we are unable to continue as a going concern, we may elect or be required to seek protection from creditors by filing a voluntary petition in bankruptcy or may be subject to an involuntary petition in bankruptcy. In such a case, we may have to liquidate our assets and may receive less than the value at which those assets are carried on our financial statements, and it is likely that investors will lose all or a part of their investment. 16 Table of Contents We have a limited operating history, have incurred significant operating losses in our first few years of operation and have not consistently achieved profitability on an annual basis. We have a limited operating history and limited revenues derived from our operations. We began our business operations in December 1999 and did not generate our first revenues until 2002. Our revenues grew from $12.2 million in 2005 to $13.9 million in 2006, followed by a decline to $9.7 million in 2007 and an increase to $11.8 million in 2008. We have incurred significant net losses since our inception, including net losses of $1.3 million in 2003, $0.6 million in 2004, $13.5 million in 2006, $18.3 million in 2007 and $32.5 million in 2008. Our net loss in 2006 resulted in part from reserves we recorded in connection with certain of our contracts which have ongoing operating costs in excess of our contract revenues. In addition, our net loss in 2007 resulted in part from additional reserves we recorded in the third quarter of 2007. We took these reserves in connection with certain older legacy contracts when it became apparent that these projects would be operating at a loss for some period of time. In addition, we may find that additional contracts have ongoing operating costs in excess of revenues, which could have an adverse effect on future results of operations. Though we have taken steps in an effort to improve our business processes, we cannot assure you that these improved processes will positively impact our results of operations. At December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficiency of approximately $68.4 million. Even if these improved processes do positively impact our results of operations, we may not have sufficient capital to continue as a going concern. Our operations prior to 2006 primarily focused on development of our technology and onsite regenerable ion exchange treatment systems, building our sales and marketing capabilities, commencing the commercial launch of these systems and developing and maintaining customer relationships. In late 2006 and throughout 2007 and 2008, we implemented several initiatives to improve our business model, but we cannot assure you that any of these initiatives will result in increased revenues or positively impact our financial results. In addition, our ability to successfully sell our systems and services depends on, among other things, the level of demand for contaminated groundwater treatment, which is an evolving market, and the demand for our technology and services in those geographic areas and markets into which we are expanding. In 2008 and 2007, we had significant net losses and expect to continue to have significant net losses from our operations in the foreseeable future. Even if we do achieve significant revenues from our business operations, increased operating expenses associated with any expansion of our business may result in future operating losses in the near term as we, among other things: • market our technology+services offering to our customers; • seek to acquire new customers in the markets in which we are currently active; • expand our technology offering to broaden our reach into new markets, such as the industrial marketplace; • expand geographically throughout the United States pursuant to our regional structure; • make significant capital expenditures to support our ability to provide services under our recurring revenue contracts; 17 Table of Contents • expand our internal sales force and develop strategic relationships with companies serving the water, wastewater, waste reduction, and resource recovery industries on a national basis; • fund development costs for our systems and technology; • incur costs associated with our litigation matters; and • incur increased general and administrative expenses, including increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a result of these and other factors, we may not achieve, sustain or increase our profitability on an ongoing basis. If we are not able to achieve profitability, then we may be unable to continue as a going concern. Our independent auditors’ report for the year ended December 31, 2008 includes an explanatory paragraph stating that our recurring losses from operations and negative cash flows raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. If we are unable to continue as a going concern, we may elect or be required to seek protection from creditors by filing a voluntary petition in bankruptcy or may be subject to an involuntary petition in bankruptcy. In such a case, we may have to liquidate our assets and may receive less than the value at which those assets are carried on our financial statements, and it is likely that investors will lose all or a part of their investment. Our future operating results will likely fluctuate significantly from reporting period to reporting period. We expect our future revenues and operating results to fluctuate significantly from period to period due to a number of factors, including: • customer budgets or commitments for our systems and/or services, including availability of Federal and state funding to our customers; • the effectiveness of our internal sales and marketing organization; • demand for our systems and/or services; • demand for low life-cycle cost solutions among our current and potential customers; • our ability to develop and market new and enhanced technology and our technology+services business model in a cost-effective manner; • our product and price competition in our market; • length of our sales cycle; • our ability to enter into third-party financing arrangements where a customer selects a long-term capital contract, thus recognizing revenue over longer periods of time; • general economic conditions; • ability to control our costs, including labor and the cost of materials included in our systems; • increases in the costs of salt, resin, chemicals, waste disposal and other materials necessary to fulfill our obligations under our recurring revenue contracts; • our ability to pass through increased operating costs to our customers under our recurring revenue contracts; • our ability to work with companies with whom we enter into strategic alliances and relationships in a cost-effective manner; and • our ability to build and install systems and provide services on a timely and low life-cycle cost basis. 18 Table of Contents Any of the foregoing factors, some of which are not within our control, may cause our operating expenses to be disproportionately high or cause our revenues and operating results to fluctuate, which could prevent us from maintaining or increasing our business or could harm our results of operations or result in our inability to continue as a going concern. In addition, our future revenues or our future operating expenses may not be consistent with our past results, which could adversely affect our stock price. Our financial success will depend in part on the efforts of strategic relationships we may work with in the future. In November 2007, we announced the formation of an exclusive, service-based alliance with Rohm and Haas. This alliance provides us with exclusive access in selected markets to the Rohm and Haas ion-exchange resin technology which we intend to deploy as part of our business model. Our alliance also provides us access to technology for the removal of organic contaminants from water, support for our business model through access to the Rohm and Haas scientific and laboratory resources and Rohm and Haas’ developed channels to the specified markets. In late 2007, we entered into an agreement with Purifics to provide us with unique engineered systems, solutions and products effective in removing organic contaminants from groundwater. Under this agreement, we can exclusively market the Purifics photocatalysis technology in certain areas of the United States, and we have access to the technology on a non-exclusive basis in a larger market area. We may enter into other such strategic relationships with other companies focused on the water, wastewater, waste reduction and resource recovery industries on a national basis. Our financial success and our anticipated growth will depend in part on the efforts of these strategic relationships as we market and sell our treatment systems and solutions. If Rohm and Haas, Purifics or any other strategic relationships fail to perform satisfactorily under their respective agreements with us, or if we fail to maintain these relationships, or establish new relationships as required, then we may lose our access to their technologies, and our ability to market our treatment systems and our technology+services offering will likely suffer. In addition, our revenues resulting from these strategic relationships may not grow as anticipated, and we could be subject to additional costs which could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition significantly. Our long sales cycles make predicting our financial results difficult. Many of our service contracts have a term of five or more years, and some contain an option either to purchase the system or to renew the contract at the end of the initial contract term. Since most of our sales are based on long-term contracts, our customers generally take a longer time to decide to purchase our system and/or services, thus creating a lengthy sales cycle. Other reasons for our long sales cycle include: • the size of the capital outlay to be incurred by our customers; • the budget constraints of municipal and industrial customers that may cause delays in project selection; • extensive contract negotiations over the specific terms of the sale of our system and/or services; • the unfamiliarity of some of our customers with utilizing third parties for water and wastewater treatment, waste reduction and resource recovery services; • our customer’s perception of our financial capability; • the resistance by customers to granting control of support functions such as water treatment to external parties; • the availability of many competitive alternatives that may be considered by our customers in the municipal market, including water importation, water blending, coagulation microfiltration (a process of destabilizing charges on contaminants in water by adding chemical coagulants that can then be filtered and removed), reverse osmosis (a pressure-driven separation process that removes contaminants from water by forcing them through a membrane barrier), electrodialysis reversal (a 19 Table of Contents process that transfers contaminants by direct electric current flow through membranes thus removing them from water) and ion exchange processes of our competitors; • the availability of competitive alternatives to our existing and developing technology+services offerings; • the availability of competitive alternatives to our existing and developing offerings in the wastewater treatment, waste reduction and resource recovery industries; • the long approval procedures imposed by government agencies; and • the lengthy approval process of many customers’ equipment/contract procurement procedures due to multiple approvals that may be required by, for example, municipal boards, public bidding or state public utility commission requirements, which is sometimes exacerbated by the capital outlay needed to enter into and support contracts for our systems and services. In addition, to the extent we expand our service to international markets, we may face additional factors that contribute to long sales cycles, including additional time required for travel to foreign locations as well as potential problems caused by language barriers, cultural differences, differing business practices, differing contracting practices, and varying regulatory requirements. Our long sales cycles, as well as the placement of large orders with short lead times on an irregular and unpredictable basis, may cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly and unexpectedly from period to period. Since our operating expenses are largely based on anticipated revenue trends and a significant portion of our expenses are, and will continue to be, fixed, any delay in generating or recognizing revenues could harm our operating results or financial condition significantly. Our ion-exchange treatment systems and the technologies upon which they are based may not achieve widespread market acceptance among our customers which may impact demand for our system and services. We have developed our proprietary ion-exchange technology and processes for groundwater treatment based on ion-exchange technology that competes with other forms of groundwater treatment technologies that currently are in operation throughout the United States. This proprietary technology is used in our onsite regenerable and disposable resin treatment systems. Through our acquisition of MPT, we have expanded our capabilities into central regeneration for ion exchange, smaller ion-exchange systems and technologies to serve customers in the industrial markets. These treatment systems and the technologies on which they are based may not achieve widespread market acceptance. Our success will depend on our ability to market our systems and services to businesses and customers on terms and conditions acceptable to us and to establish and maintain successful relationships with municipal and industrial customers. We believe that market acceptance of our systems and technology and our related success will depend on many factors including: • the perceived advantages of our systems over competing treatment solutions; • the actual and perceived safety and efficacy of our systems; • the availability and success of alternative treatment solutions; • the pricing and cost effectiveness of our systems; • our ability to market effectively to municipal and industrial customers that may use our systems; • the permitting of our technology by regulatory agencies; • the willingness of potential customers to enter into long-term service contracts; • publicity concerning our systems and technologies or competitive solutions; 20 Table of Contents • timeliness in assembling and installing our systems on customer sites; • whether or not our existing customers continue to use our system and services and/or renew service contracts after their expiration; • our customer’s perception of our financial viability and ability to fulfill our obligations under our long term service contracts; • our ability to respond to changes in the regulatory standards for maximum contaminant levels of various contaminants; • the ability of our strategic relationships to provide necessary support to our efforts to market their technologies now available to us from our strategic alliance and other agreements; • our ability to provide effective service and maintenance of our system to our customers’ satisfaction; and • our ability to control operating costs. If our systems or technologies fail to achieve or maintain market acceptance or if new technologies are introduced by others that are more favorably received than our technology, are more cost effective or otherwise render our technologies obsolete, we may experience a decline in demand for our systems and services. If we are unable to market and sell our systems and services successfully, our revenues would decline and our operating results and prospects would suffer. We may be unable to attract and retain qualified personnel which could harm our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects significantly. Our future success also will depend, in large part, on our ability to identify, attract and retain sufficient numbers of highly skilled employees, particularly qualified sales, marketing and engineering personnel. As of December 31, 2008, we had 83 full-time employees, one part-time employee and 20 employees leased from Shaw pursuant to our Envirogen acquisition. These leased employees became employees of the Company effective January 1, 2009. Although we have expanded our sales force somewhat, we have a limited number of sales and marketing employees and consultants, as well as service employees who provide field and other services to our treatment systems. We may not succeed in identifying, attracting and retaining individuals who qualify for these positions. Further, competitors and other companies may attempt to recruit our employees. If we are unable to hire and retain adequate staffing levels, it may be difficult to increase sales of our systems or services or adequately support our installed systems, which could harm our business and prospects. Our future success also depends on the experience and expertise of our President and CEO, whose talents, efforts and relationships within the water industry have been, and continue to be, critical to our success. We have an employment agreement with our CEO that provides for “at will” employment. However, we cannot prevent our CEO from leaving our employ if he chooses to do so. We do not currently carry “key man” insurance upon the life of our CEO or the lives of any of our employees or officers. The loss of our CEO’s services and access to his abilities and relationships could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our customer base and could harm our operating results and prospects significantly. The current geographic concentration of our customers in California and Arizona and the location of our headquarters in California make our business particularly vulnerable to adverse conditions affecting these markets. Currently, our customers are concentrated geographically, primarily in the states of California and Arizona. Our revenues and operating results are therefore subject to local regulatory, economic, demographic and weather conditions in those areas. A change in any of these conditions could make it more costly or difficult for us to conduct our business or decrease demand for our treatment systems. The current economic climate in California 21 Table of Contents has resulted in a decrease in new home development and population migration to California. Additionally, in December 2008, the California Department of Public Health, Division of Drinking Water and Environmental Management was directed by the State of California to cease entering into any new construction related to the expenditure of state bond funds, which may impair the ability of municipalities and other governmental entities to pay for capital expenditures. As a result of these events, we may experience lower sales of our water treatment units to developers, municipalities and other governmental entities in California. In addition, we are subject to greater risk of loss from earthquakes and wildfires because our headquarters, where we assembled our onsite regenerable systems and most of the well locations that utilize our system are concentrated in California. Either of these occurrences could result in increased costs and a disruption in our operations, which would harm our operating results and financial condition significantly. Due to our current client concentration, a loss of one of our significant customers could harm our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately 59 customers, including approximately 22 customers resulting from our acquisition of Envirogen in September 2008. This excludes approximately 140 small customers we added as a result of our acquisition of MPT. We had one customer who accounted for 17% of our revenues during 2008. Our customers may, upon the occurrence of certain circumstances, elect to terminate their contracts with us prior to their contractual expiration date and seek services from our competitors. In addition, upon the expiration of these contracts, our customers may decide not to renew such contracts with us. If we were to lose one or more of these significant customers for any reason, our revenues would decline significantly and our business, operating results and prospects would suffer. We may face risks associated with our geographic expansion. Our ability to expand our offering geographically will depend on our ability to recruit, hire, train and motivate sales, operations and field services personnel. If we are unsuccessful in gathering a critical mass of projects in a regional office, we may find it additionally difficult to leverage our overhead costs or to achieve and maintain the profitability of such regional office. Our operations in our regional offices, including our industrial operations office, will be far from our Southern California headquarters and will require additional management time and attention. Failure to properly supervise the personnel in these offices could result in loss of new business and potentially harm future sales prospects. In addition, as our systems and services for industrial customers become accepted in North America, these customers may require us to support their international activities which will require additional time and resources. Supporting the marketing, development, process design, and operations of potentially distant operations will further challenge our management team and operations and could cause harm to our business or operating results. Most of our operations are conducted in our facilities in Southern California and our facility in Memphis, Tennessee. Disruptions at these facilities could increase our expenses. Our headquarters are located in Southern California. Our central resin regeneration operations for our offsite regenerable treatment systems and our base of our operations servicing the industrial markets are located at our facility in Memphis, Tennessee. We take precautions to safeguard our facilities, including obtaining insurance, maintaining health and safety protocols, and using off-site storage of computer data. However, a natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire or flood in Southern California or a tornado, flood or earthquake in Memphis, could cause a substantial interruption in our operations, damage or destroy our resin regeneration facility or inventory and cause us to incur additional expenses. The insurance we maintain against natural disasters may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case, which would require us to expend significant resources to replace any destroyed assets, thereby harming our financial condition and prospects significantly. 22 Table of Contents We face risks associated with the historical and current operations at our Memphis facility. We acquired our Memphis facility in September 2007 and have limited operating experience with this facility. From our Memphis facility, we regenerate the ion-exchange resins associated with our offsite regenerable treatment systems and for other customers that have not purchased one of our systems but who require resin. Any problems we face in shipping or transporting resins to our Memphis facility for regeneration, the inability to regenerate certain resins, or any other problems at our Memphis facility that would prevent us from timely providing regeneration services on a cost-effective basis would adversely affect our relationships with our customers, our business and our results of operations. In connection with our acquisition of MPT, we obtained indemnification from the MPT stockholders for any violations of environmental laws that occurred prior to the acquisition date. We cannot assure you that there are no environmental risks associated with the Memphis facility or that indemnification obligations of the MPT stockholders with respect to any such problems will adequately protect us from any liability we may face. In addition, we cannot be certain that the materials characterization procedures at our Memphis facility are adequate to properly identify and dispose of hazardous waste. If these procedures are deficient, then we may be in violation of certain environmental laws which could result in potential liability or disruptions in our operations. Our Memphis facility is over 50 years old and may also contain latent defects or other damage of which we are unaware. In the future, this facility may also lack the capacity to meet our needs for central regeneration of resins or for conducting our industrial market operations. Any of these occurrences could require us to make substantial investment in this facility so that it meets our needs, or require us to relocate our operations from this facility, which would result in significant disruptions in our operations at this facility. Also in connection with our acquisition of MPT, we assumed certain legacy contracts and other arrangements to which MPT was a party. Some of these contracts may have terms that we do not find to be favorable or compatible with our business plans, including our ability to expand and/or penetrate markets. We may be unable to renegotiate these contracts on more favorable terms or at all, which may adversely impact our business and results of operations. We face risks associated with the design and operation of our systems which may prevent us from increasing our revenues. We take responsibility for the design, construction, initial maintenance and installation of our ion exchange systems. However, we cannot predict whether we will be able to design our systems for every particular contaminant. Thus, we may be required to turn away customers that require treatment of chemical contaminants that our systems do not treat. We also cannot guarantee that once constructed, our systems will operate according to their design or be free from defects. Because many of our systems treat groundwater for dangerous contaminants, if our systems fail to operate properly, it could cause significant public harm, especially for drinking water applications. Following installation, testing and regulatory certification of a system, actual day-to-day operation of our groundwater treatment systems is transitioned to our customer’s personnel. Though we retain ownership of many of our systems, our customers take responsibility for operation of some of these systems. We, however, continue to be responsible for the maintenance of the installed systems in most cases. We may not be able to provide sufficient employees for the maintenance of those systems. In addition, because our systems are located at our customers’ sites, we will not always be physically present should problems arise. If there are defects in our system or if significant reliability, quality or performance problems develop with respect to our system or services, this may have a number of negative effects on our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects, including: • loss of revenues; 23 Table of Contents • failure to attract new customers and achieve market acceptance; • delays in collecting accounts receivable; • diversion of management and development resources and the attention of engineering personnel; • significant customer relations problems and loss of existing customers; • high service, support, repair, warranty and insurance expenses; • removal of our systems from service by state regulatory agencies for failure to operate properly; and • legal actions for damages by our customers. In order to operate our business successfully, we must meet evolving municipal customer requirements for groundwater treatment and invest in the development of our technology. If we fail to develop or enhance our system and services to satisfy evolving municipal customer demands, our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects may be harmed significantly. The market for groundwater treatment in the municipal markets is characterized by changing technologies, periodic new product introductions and evolving customer and industry standards. For instance, competitors in the groundwater treatment industry are continuously searching for methods of groundwater treatment that are more cost-effective and more efficient. Our current and prospective municipal customers may choose future groundwater treatment solutions and/or services that might be offered at a lower price than our system and/or services. To achieve market acceptance for our system and services, we must effectively and timely anticipate and adapt to customer requirements and offer products and services that meet customer demands. Our municipal customers may require us to provide water treatment solutions for new contaminants or higher volumes of water or to decrease the presence of contaminants well below an applicable MCL which may increase our operating costs for those systems and harm our results of operations. We also may experience design, engineering and other difficulties that could delay or prevent the development, introduction or marketing of any modifications to our system or our new services. Our failure to successfully develop and offer systems or services that satisfy customer requirements would likely cause a decrease in our financial performance. In addition, if our competitors introduce solutions and/or services based on new or alternative water treatment technologies, our existing and future systems and/or services could become obsolete, which would also weaken demand for our systems or services, thereby decreasing our revenues and harming our operating results. Serving customers in industrial markets presents numerous risks. We face numerous risks as we expand our services to customers in the industrial markets. We have limited experience in serving industrial market customers and have never provided systems or services to customers in the oil, gas or mining industries. Industrial customers have different requirements and goals than our municipal customers. Our industrial customers may choose treatment solutions and/or services that are offered on a low life-cycle cost basis or that give them an advantage from a technological standpoint. They also require us to tailor our systems to meet their specific business needs, which often results in additional development and design costs. We may have difficulty in developing technologies and services that address the needs of these customers and in hiring the appropriate engineering or other talent that can develop such technologies. In some cases, we may be required to conduct a pilot project to address an industrial market customer’s needs. We may expend significant time and resources in building and conducting the pilot project, and there can be no assurance that the pilot will successfully uncover all key process variables required to successfully scale up a particular process or meet the customer’s requirements. Since these processes have not been successfully commercialized, more extensive or other pilot testing may be required. Even if we meet the customer’s treatment requirements at the pilot stage, when we build the full-scale treatment system, positive results from a pilot test might not provide an accurate indication of the treatment capabilities of and the cost of operation of a full-scale treatment system, and thus, we may have problems 24 Table of Contents meeting the relevant treatment requirements on an economically feasible basis or at all. Additionally, startup of new industrial process facilities could cause increased safety risks until processes and procedures for normal operation, upset conditions and emergency conditions are established and well understood by our employees. To the extent we are unable to meet these customers’ demands and requirements, our expansion into these markets may not be successful which would adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects. The economics of the systems for some of our industrial customers may rely on the recovery of a valuable resource from waste streams. Should the underlying economics of the resource deteriorate significantly, demand for these types of our systems and services may decline which could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. Industrial market customers may pose credit risks that we do not necessarily face to the same degree with our municipal market customers. Our industrial market customers may not be economically viable, might be newly formed without adequate capitalization and/or may be highly dependent on commodity prices, such as companies in the oil, gas and mining industries. Changes in commodity prices will particularly impact the viability of our business in recovery of valuable materials. Finally, when we install our treatment system onsite for an industrial customer, we must take into account the location which our customer provides us for the installation. We, our systems or the hazardous chemicals we use in our systems, may damage the property or harm our customer’s personnel that may be in proximity to our systems, or we may adversely impact our customer’s operations while we install, service and/or repair our systems. In addition, our employees may be injured by hazardous chemicals, machinery or other dangers at our customer’s site during the installation, operation and/or servicing of our systems. Because of our unfamiliarity with building systems for the industrial markets, we may not understand all of the safety and other risks associated with these systems until we have more experience servicing this industry. Any of these risks could have an adverse effect on our ability to address the industrial market. Our reliance on third party suppliers and manufacturers poses significant risks to our business and prospects. We contract for all of the components in our system and for all of the commodities necessary to fulfill our service obligations, including salt, chemicals and replacement resin, with third-party suppliers. We plan to rely on third party suppliers and manufacturers for systems we market to our customers. We are subject to substantial risks because of our reliance on these suppliers and manufacturers. For example: • our suppliers may increase prices for these commodities that exceed contract provisions to recover such costs; • our suppliers may not provide components that meet our specifications in sufficient quantities; • our suppliers and manufacturers may face a reduction or an interruption of supply of our components; • our manufacturers may lack the capacity and resources to continue to manufacture our systems or supply them in sufficient quantity to meet our demands; • our suppliers and manufacturers may face production delays due to natural disasters or strikes, lock-outs or other such actions; • one or more suppliers or manufacturers could make strategic changes in its or their product lines; • there may be a lack of alternative suppliers for certain product lines; and • many of our suppliers and manufacturers are small companies which are more likely to experience financial and operational difficulties than larger, well-established companies, because of their limited financial and other resources. As a result of any of these factors, we may be required to find alternative suppliers for the components of our system or alternative manufacturers for our systems marketed to industrial customers. It may take considerable amounts of time to identify and qualify such alternative suppliers. In addition, we may be required 25 Table of Contents to redesign our system to conform to the components provided by these alternative suppliers. As a result of these factors, we may experience delays in obtaining raw materials and components on a timely basis and in sufficient quantities from our suppliers, which could result in delays in the production and installation of our system. We may also face delays in the manufacture and assembly of our systems from third party manufacturers. These delays could impact our ability to sell our systems, enter into recurring revenue contracts or profitably execute our service agreements, which would cause our revenues and operating results to decline. In addition, we have lacked the leverage or have otherwise been unable to negotiate consistently long-term contracts for the supply of components and commodities necessary to build our systems and fulfill our service obligations. As a result, rising component or commodity prices could increase our expenses and adversely affect our results of operations. We often place our systems through a party other than the party with whom we enter into a long-term contract which may cause difficulties in selling our systems and offering our services. When we sell a system to a municipal or industrial customer, we often contract with a general contractor as opposed to our actual customer. We often enter into a separate long-term contract for servicing the system directly with our municipal or industrial customer. Contracting with different parties can create difficulties for us, including having inconsistent terms between the two contracts which makes it more difficult to successfully close the transaction and could harm our relationships with our customers. These difficulties may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The revenues from certain of our long-term contracts for onsite regenerable treatment systems are moderately seasonal, with higher processing fees received in the summer months and lower processing fees received in the winter months. Our business, particularly the revenues we receive from our long-term contracts, is moderately seasonal due to the impact of summer and hot weather conditions on the water requirements of our customers. In the summer and warmer months, our customers have a higher demand for water and generally increase the utilization of their groundwater resources resulting in a higher volume of groundwater treated during a period and thus higher revenues from our long-term contracts. However, this increased utilization results in increased operating costs for us, which could adversely affect our profit margins and results of operations. Conversely, our customers experience lower demand in cooler months in the first and fourth calendar quarters, resulting in lower revenues from our long-term contracts during those periods. This seasonality in processing fees has resulted in fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. These moderate seasonal trends can cause some reductions in our profit margin and variations in our financial condition. Impairment of our significant long-lived assets may reduce our profitability. Our long-lived assets consist of property, equipment, acquired intellectual property, patents, trademarks and other intangible assets and goodwill. We regularly review the carrying amount of our long-lived assets. Some factors we consider important in assessing whether or not impairment exists include performance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner of our use of the assets or the strategy for our overall business and significant negative industry or economic trends. If the carrying value of the asset exceeds projected undiscounted cash flows, the asset will be written down to its fair value, which could result in an impairment of our long-lived assets. Any impairment of our long-lived assets in the future may reduce our profitability and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In 2008, we recorded an impairment charge in the approximate amount of $5.0 million to reduce the recorded goodwill resulting from our MPT acquisition. See Notes 3 and 9 to our consolidated financial statements for additional details. We may be required to record further impairment charges related to these or other assets in the future. 26 Table of Contents We own a large stake in Empire Water Corporation, and to the extent that it does not succeed, the value of our investment in Empire Water Corporation may decline further. In 2007, we disposed of our rights to purchase certain water assets to Empire Water Corporation, or Empire, in exchange for approximately 32% of the outstanding stock of Empire. To the extent that Empire does not succeed in its operations or business or Empire experiences any material adverse event, the value of Empire’s common stock will likely decline, which would cause the value of our investment in Empire to decline. Because we record our investment in Empire under the equity method, a decline in the value of our investment would have an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. In the quarter ended September 30, 2008, we determined that the value of our investment in Empire had declined and, as a result, we recorded a reduction of our investment and a related reduction in deferred revenue-affiliate through a charge to earnings in the approximate amount of $1.2 million. Any further decline in the value of our investment in Empire would require us to record additional charges to our earnings. In conjunction with the February 2009 settlement of a claim by one of our customers, we transferred 150,000 shares of Empire common stock to this customer as partial consideration of this claim (see Notes 11 and 25 to our consolidated financial statements). After the transfer of this common stock in 2009, we now own approximately 31% of the outstanding stock of Empire. We have been named as a party to lawsuits, including class action and derivative action lawsuits, and we may be named in additional litigation, all of which could require time and attention from certain members of management and result in significant legal expenses. An unfavorable outcome in one or more of these lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. On December 27, 2007 and January 2, 2008, two purported securities class action complaints were filed in the United States District Court for the Central District of California against our Company, Peter L. Jensen, Michael M. Stark and Thomas C. Tekulve (collectively referred to as the Basin defendants) for violations of the Exchange Act. These lawsuits, which contain similar allegations, are captioned Poulos v. Basin Water, et al., Case No. CV 07-8359 GW (FFMx) and Nofer v. Basin Water, et al., Case No. CV 08-0002 SGL (JCRx). The lawsuits were subsequently consolidated, and on October 3, 2008 a Consolidated Amended Complaint (CAC) was filed which alleges that the Company deliberately understated the reserves it took for certain unprofitable contracts, and committed various intentional violations of GAAP during a putative class period between November 14, 2006 and August 8, 2008 (the Federal Lawsuit). The suit does not state a specific amount of damages. On February 19, 2009, we and our insurance carriers reached an agreement in principle to settle the class action with representatives of the class. The settlement is still subject to preparation of a final settlement agreement, following which we would intend to seek preliminary approval from the Court so that class members can receive notice of the settlement, providing them with the opportunity to accept its terms or to opt out and choose whether to pursue their own individual claims. Following a fair period of notice to the class, it would be our intention to seek final Court approval of the settlement and the dismissal of all claims against us. We deny all of the allegations in the lawsuit and believe that our disclosures were appropriate under the law. Nevertheless, we have agreed to settle the litigation in order to avoid costly and time-consuming litigation. We do not expect a cash effect of the settlement on our Company as the entire settlement amount is expected to be paid by our liability insurers. On January 31, 2008, Loren Charif, a purported stockholder of our company, filed a shareholder derivative lawsuit in the Superior Court of the State of California, County of San Bernardino, against certain of our current and former executive officers and our current directors. The complaint assumes the truth of the aforementioned allegations in the federal securities class action lawsuits and in connection with those allegations alleges, among 27 Table of Contents other things, breaches of fiduciary duties, waste of corporate assets, unjust enrichment and violations of California Corporations Code pertaining to allegations of improper selling. The suit does not state a specific amount of damages. On November 12, 2008, we obtained an order staying this action until a final determination occurs in the Federal Lawsuit. On March 10, 2009, Demetrice Ledbetter, III, a purported shareholder of our company, filed a shareholder derivative lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Central District of California against certain current and former executive officers and directors. The complaint assumes the truth of the aforementioned federal securities class action lawsuits and in connection with those allegations alleges, among other things, breaches of fiduciary duty, waste of corporate assets, abuse of control, gross mismanagement, unjust enrichment, and claims for contribution and indemnification. The suit does not state a specific amount of damages. From time to time, we are involved in legal and administrative disputes and proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business, which we believe are not material to the conduct of our business. We are subject to risks related to our international operations. We currently serve some international customers. We may serve additional international customers or expand our operations internationally. As we expand our international operations, we will be increasingly susceptible to the following risks associated with international operations: • import and export license requirements; • trade restrictions; • changes in tariffs and taxes; • restrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the United States; • the imposition of foreign and domestic governmental controls; • unfamiliarity with foreign laws and regulations and ability to enforce obligations of foreign partners; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • product registration, permitting and regulatory compliance; • significant, time-consuming and expensive travel to foreign locations; • fluctuations in foreign currencies; • language and cultural barriers; • thefts and other crimes; and • geopolitical conditions, such as terrorist attacks, war or other military action. In addition, we may develop formal and informal relationships with existing and new local business partners who can provide local expertise and sales and distribution infrastructure to support our expansion in our target international markets, which will be time-consuming and costly. Several of the risks associated with our international business may be within the control (in whole or in part) of these local business partners with whom we have established relationships or may be affected by the acts or omissions of these local business partners. No assurances can be provided that these local business partners will effectively help us in their respective markets and the inability to do so would adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Failure to protect, or uncertainty regarding the validity, enforceability or scope of, our intellectual property rights could impair our competitive position. Our treatment systems and services utilize a variety of proprietary rights that are important to our competitive position and success. Because the intellectual property associated with our technology is evolving 28 Table of Contents and rapidly changing, our current intellectual property rights may not protect us adequately. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets and contractual restrictions to protect the intellectual property we use in our business. In addition, we generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements, or have confidentiality provisions in agreements, with our employees, consultants, strategic relationships and customers and control access to, and distribution of, our technology, documentation and other proprietary information. Our pending patent applications may not be granted or, if granted, the resulting patent may be challenged or invalidated by our competitors or by other third parties. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. In addition, monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, and we cannot be certain the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property will prevent unauthorized use of it. Because legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of patent and intellectual property rights in new technologies are uncertain and still evolving, the future viability or value of our intellectual property rights is uncertain. Furthermore, our competitors independently may develop similar technologies that limit the value of our intellectual property or design around patents issued to us. If competitors or third parties are able to use our intellectual property or are able to successfully challenge, circumvent, invalidate or render unenforceable our intellectual property, we likely would lose a significant portion of our competitive advantage in the market. We may not be successful in securing or maintaining proprietary or patent protection for the technology used in our systems or services, and protection that is secured may be challenged and possibly lost. We may have to prosecute unauthorized uses of our intellectual property and the expense, time, delay and burden on management of such litigation could prevent us from maintaining or increasing our business. Our inability to protect our intellectual property adequately for these and other reasons could result in weakened demand for our systems or services, which would result in a decline in our revenues. In addition, we have entered into an alliance agreement with Rohm and Haas and an agreement with Purifics, pursuant to which we have access to certain of their technologies. In connection with our acquisition of Envirogen, we are in the process of obtaining the rights to a number of patents relating to the bioreactor and biofilter business. To the extent that each of these parties faces a challenge to its intellectual property rights in those technologies, it could have an adverse effect on our ability to market our systems and/or services that incorporate those technologies which would result in a decline in our revenues. We could become subject to litigation regarding intellectual property rights, which could harm our business significantly. Our commercial success will continue to depend in part on our ability to make and sell our systems or provide our services without infringing the patents or proprietary rights of third parties. We face these risks with respect to intellectual property that we have developed internally, as well as with respect to intellectual property rights we have acquired from third parties. For example, pursuant to our alliance agreement with Rohm and Haas and our agreement with Purifics, we have access to the technologies owned by each of these companies. To the extent either of these parties has failed to adequately protect the technologies upon which we rely or if these technologies infringe upon the patents or proprietary rights of third parties, we may be unable to continue using such technologies or we may face lawsuits related to our past use of these technologies. In addition, our competitors, many of which have substantially greater resources than us and have made significant investments in competing technologies or products, may seek to apply for and obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make or sell our systems or provide our services. If we are unsuccessful in any challenge to our rights to market and sell our systems, our rights to use third party technologies or to provide our services, we may, among other things, be required to: • pay actual damages, royalties, lost profits and/or increased damages and the third party’s attorneys’ fees, which may be substantial; • cease the development, manufacture and/or marketing of our systems or services that use the intellectual property in question through a court-imposed sanction called an injunction; 29 Table of Contents • expend significant resources to modify or redesign our systems or other technology or services so that they do not infringe others’ intellectual property rights or to develop or acquire non-infringing technology, which may not be possible; or • obtain licenses to the disputed rights, which could require us to pay substantial upfront fees and future royalty payments and may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Even if we successfully defend any infringement claims, the expense, time, delay and burden on management of litigation could prevent us from maintaining or increasing our business. Further, negative publicity could decrease demand for our systems and services and cause our revenues to decline, thus harming our operating results significantly. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology, systems and services could be harmed significantly. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information in operating our business. We seek to protect this information, in part, through the use of confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, advisors and others upon commencement of their relationships with us. These agreements require that all confidential information developed by the individual or made known to the individual by us during the course of the individual’s relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. Our agreements with employees also provide that any inventions conceived by the individual in the course of rendering services to us are our exclusive property. Nonetheless, those agreements may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information and prevent their unauthorized use or disclosure. In the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets or proprietary information, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection, particularly for our trade secrets or other confidential information. To the extent that consultants, key employees or other third parties apply technological information independently developed by them or by others to our proposed products, disputes may arise as to the proprietary rights to such information which may not be resolved in our favor. The risk that other parties may breach confidentiality agreements or that our trade secrets become known or independently discovered by competitors, could harm us by enabling our competitors, who may have greater experience and financial resources, to copy or use our trade secrets and other proprietary information in the advancement of their products, methods or technologies. The disclosure of our trade secrets would impair our competitive position, thereby weakening demand for our systems or services and harming our ability to maintain or increase our customer base. In addition, to the extent that we do not fulfill our contractual or other obligations to adequately protect the technologies to which we have been granted access by Rohm and Haas or Purifics, we could be liable to either of them for any resulting harm to their businesses or could lose further access to those technologies, which could harm our business, operating results or financial condition. Risks Related to Our Industry We are subject to environmental risks that may prevent us from selling our systems and, if such risks are realized, may subject us to clean-up costs or litigation that could adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects. We are subject to a number of governmental regulations with respect to our business activities and operations. See “Business—Government Regulation.” For example, our onsite regenerable ion-exchange technology generates a byproduct known as brine waste, which may contain hazardous contaminants such as arsenic. Any waste materials or byproducts from our treatment process are required to be disposed of in a manner mandated by the EPA or state regulatory agencies. The EPA or state regulatory agencies may consider these or other byproducts of the ion-exchange process to be hazardous, and in such cases, our customers will be subject to 30 Table of Contents additional requirements relating to the treatment, storage, disposal and transportation of hazardous substances. With respect to our onsite regenerable treatment systems, though our customers take title to all brine waste, together with all other byproducts of the ion-exchange technology process, we generally contract with third parties to secure waste disposal services on our customers’ behalf. We cannot predict whether any new laws, statutes, ordinances, rules or regulations will be enacted that may require significant modification to our system or our services, which may weaken demand for our system or services and harm our business significantly. In addition, we cannot predict whether any third party will assert against us any claims for violations of any federal, state or local statute, ordinance, law, rule or regulation relating to hazardous or toxic substances in connection with the brine waste or groundwater treatment process or as a result of any actions of the third-party waste disposal services with whom we contract on behalf of our customers who use our onsite regenerable treatment systems. We face similar risks with respect to resins containing contaminants that we transport to our Memphis facility for regeneration, as these resins may contain hazardous substances with our knowledge. CERCLA and analogous state laws provide for the remediation of certain contaminated facilities and impose strict, joint and several liability for remediation costs on current and former owners or operators of a facility at which there has been a release or a threatened release of a “hazardous substance.” This liability is also imposed on persons who arrange for the disposal or transportation of such substances, and on those who transport such substances to the facility. Because we generally contract for waste disposal and transport on our customers’ behalf, we may be subject to liability as an arranger of the disposal or transportation of hazardous substances, and our contracts with our customers may not adequately protect us from this liability. Hundreds of substances are defined as “hazardous” under CERCLA and analogous state laws and their presence, even in small amounts, can result in substantial liability. The expense of conducting a cleanup can be significant. The actual costs for these liabilities could be significantly greater than the amounts that we might be required to accrue on our financial statements from time to time. In addition to the costs of complying with environmental regulations, we may incur costs to defend against litigation brought by government agencies and private parties. As a result, we may be required to pay fines to governmental agencies if we are found to have violated these environmental laws. In addition, we may in the future be a defendant in lawsuits brought by private parties who assert claims alleging environmental damage, natural resource damages, personal injury, property damage and/or violations of permits and licenses by us. If such claims are asserted against us, and if we do not prevail in defending such claims, we may be required to pay significant damages, causing our financial condition to suffer. Even if we successfully defend against such claims, we may devote significant time and resources to litigation, which would likely prevent us from maintaining or increasing our customer base and business. We face additional environmental risks related to the parties with whom we do business, particularly those parties that send resin to our Memphis facility for regeneration. Our customers may not be in compliance with federal, state or local statutes, ordinances, laws, rules or regulations relating to hazardous or toxic substances and to the extent we assist them with water and wastewater treatment services, offsite regeneration of resins or waste reduction or resource recovery services, we could be subject to liability under these various laws and regulations. In addition, our contracts with these customers may not adequately protect us from these liabilities, and even if our contracts provide these legal protections, these customers may not have the financial resources to provide us with the protection to which we are legally entitled such as the ability to pay indemnity obligations to which they are contractually obligated. We also face environmental risks associated with our operations targeted to serve industrial customers. These operations involve wastewater treatment, water reuse and the recovery of valuable commodities and often require the discharge of wastewater and other materials. We plan for these activities to take place at our Memphis facility. These activities subject us to numerous stringent permitting requirements as well as numerous federal, state or local statutes, ordinances, laws, rules or regulations relating to hazardous or toxic substances. For example, our Memphis facility’s environmental permits include a NPDES wastewater discharge permit and Special Solid Waste Disposal Permits. In addition, this facility is required to maintain an EPA generator registration and identification number for its hazardous waste disposal activities. Additionally, to the extent these activities involve radionuclides, they would be subject to regulations governed by the NRC. If we do not comply 31 Table of Contents with the applicable environmental laws and regulations applicable to our activities or obtain and maintain the appropriate permits necessary to conduct these activities, we would be subject to numerous legal and administrative disputes and proceedings. Changes in governmental regulation and other legal uncertainties could adversely affect our customers or decrease demand for our systems, and thus harm our business, operating results and prospects. In the United States, many different federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the treatment and distribution of contaminated groundwater and disposal of attendant wastes. The increased interest in the treatment of contaminated groundwater due to increased media attention on the adverse health effects from contaminated drinking water may result in intervention by the EPA or state regulatory agencies under existing or newly enacted legislation and in the imposition of restrictions, fees or charges on users and providers of products and services in this area. These restrictions, fees or charges could adversely affect our customers, which could negatively affect our revenues. Conversely, the failure of the EPA or state regulatory agencies to act on a timely basis to set interim or permanent standards for pollutants such as MCLs, or to delay effective dates for standards for pollutants, grant waivers of compliance with such standards or take other discretionary actions not to enforce these standards, may decrease demand for our systems and services because our customers would not be required to bring their water into compliance with such regulatory standards. Changes in regulations affecting treatment of air streams, wastewater treatment or water reuse processes could also impact their need for our systems and/or services. We cannot predict whether there will be future legislation regarding the treatment and distribution of contaminated groundwater, the disposal of attendant wastes, wastewater treatment or water reuse processes. If there are significant changes in such laws and regulations, particularly if such laws and regulations become less stringent, such changes could weaken demand for our systems or services and cause our revenues to decline, thus harming our operating results and prospects. Each groundwater treatment solution must be permitted by a regulatory agency prior to its use by our customers, and changing drinking water standards and other factors could affect the approval process with respect to our system by such regulatory agencies. Each groundwater treatment solution, including our groundwater treatment system and those of our competitors, must be permitted by applicable state regulatory agencies prior to use of such systems by our customers. We cannot assure you when or whether the various regulatory agencies will approve our systems for use by our customers. The application process for our systems is time consuming and often involves several information requests by the regulatory agencies with respect to our systems. Any long waiting periods or difficulties faced by our customers in the application process could cause some of our customers to use competing technologies, products, services or sources of drinking water, rather than use our technology. Also, we cannot predict the impact of changing drinking water standards on the approval of our technology for groundwater treatment. Our systems currently treat groundwater so that it meets the MCL for several different contaminants. MCLs are set by the EPA and/or state regulatory agencies that regulate drinking water contaminants. However, the MCL for any contaminant is subject to review and revision by the EPA or state regulatory agencies. MCLs may be changed to levels below that which our systems can treat, resulting in state regulatory agencies failing to approve our systems. Without regulatory approval, our systems could not be used by our customers, and we may be required to develop technology that meets any revised MCLs, and to the extent we cannot do so, sales of our systems will suffer. The development of such technology may require increased expenditures, and during this development, we could be delayed in selling our systems, which would cause our revenues to decline, thus harming our operating results significantly. 32 Table of Contents Demand for our groundwater treatment systems would be adversely affected by a downturn in government spending related to groundwater treatment solutions, or in the cyclical residential or non-residential building markets. Our municipal market business is dependent upon spending on groundwater treatment solutions by utilities, municipalities and other organizations that supply water, which in turn is often dependent upon residential construction, population growth, continued contamination of groundwater sources and regulatory responses to this contamination. As a result, demand for our water treatment systems could be impacted adversely by general budgetary constraints on our governmental or regulated customers, including government spending cuts, the inability of government entities to issue debt to finance any necessary groundwater treatment projects, difficulty of our customers in obtaining necessary permits or changes in regulatory limits associated with the chemical contaminants we seek to address with our groundwater treatment system. It is not unusual for the implementation of water treatment solutions to be delayed and rescheduled for a number of reasons, including changes in project priorities and difficulties in complying with environmental and other government regulations. We cannot assure you that economic conditions will continue such that state and local governments will address groundwater contaminant needs and consider purchasing or entering into long-term contracts for our systems. In addition, although in past years our target markets have experienced population growth in recent years along with related residential building market growth, we have recently witnessed a significant slowdown in the residential building industry and a decrease in new home development and population migration to California. A slowdown of growth in residential and non-residential building has reduced demand for groundwater treatment solutions such as our systems. The residential and non-residential building markets are generally cyclical, and, historically, down cycles have typically lasted a number of years. Because of the dramatic declines in the housing market in the past few years and the significant deterioration of the economic climate, this down cycle may be significantly longer than past down cycles, which could affect the demand for drinking water and water treatment services. Any significant decline in the governmental spending on groundwater treatment solutions or residential or non-residential building markets could weaken demand for our systems or services, thus harming our operating results and prospects significantly. We operate in a competitive market, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our business, operating results and prospects could suffer. The market environment in which we operate is dynamic and is characterized by evolving standards, the development of new technology, regulations which continually reduce the acceptable levels for contaminants and affect the means, methods and costs of disposing of wastes derived from groundwater treatment. Though barriers to entry in this market are arguably high, we expect that competition will intensify in the future. We believe that in a changing market, key competitive factors include: • development and use of technology; • cost and effectiveness of treatment and waste disposal methods; • changing requirements of the EPA or state regulatory agencies; • changing requirements of customers in the industrial markets; and • availability of capital to meet evolving customer needs and requirements for the treatment of contaminated water. We compete with large groundwater treatment companies, such as Severn Trent PLC, GE Water and Siemens AG, in our business aimed at the municipal markets. We compete with large industrial market companies, such as GE Water and Layne Christensen, in our business aimed at the industrial markets. Many of our current and potential competitors have technical and financial resources, marketing and service organizations and market expertise significantly greater than ours. Many of our competitors also have longer operating histories, greater name recognition and larger customer bases. Moreover, our competitors may forecast the course of market developments more accurately and could in the future develop new technologies that compete with our 33 Table of Contents systems and/or services or even render our system and/or services obsolete. Due to the evolving markets in which we compete, additional competitors with significant market presence and financial resources may enter those markets, thereby further increasing competition. These competitors may be able to reduce our market share by adopting more aggressive pricing policies than we can or by developing technology and services that gain wider market acceptance than our system and/or services. Existing and potential competitors also may develop relationships with distributors of our systems and services or third parties with whom we have strategic relationships in a manner that could harm our ability to sell, market and develop our systems and services significantly. If we do not compete successfully we may never achieve significant market penetration and we may be unable to maintain or increase our business or revenues, causing our operating results and prospects to suffer. We could become subject to litigation as a result of claims brought against our customers, which could harm our operating results and financial condition significantly. Our municipal customers are water providers that supply drinking water treated by our system to the general public. If our customers faced claims from consumers related to the quality of the drinking water, such consumers also may bring claims against any other party with whom the customer contracted in the groundwater treatment process. Even if our system treated the groundwater successfully for the contaminants it was designed to remove, we still may be subject to claims from such consumers. Our industrial customers may also face liability from consumers or regulatory agencies with respect to their wastewater treatment or waste reduction activities. These parties may also bring claims or actions against us because our systems and services were utilized in our customer’s activities. Despite any success in defending such claims, the expense, time, delay and burden on management of litigation would likely prevent us from maintaining or increasing our business and negative publicity could weaken demand for our services, cause our revenues to decline and harm our operating results and financial condition significantly. Risks Related to our Finances and Capital Requirements We may incur indebtedness that contains terms that place restrictions on the operation of our business; our failure to comply with these terms could put us in default, which would harm our business and operations. We may incur indebtedness in the future that contains a number of significant covenants. These covenants may limit our ability to, among other things, do the following: • incur additional indebtedness; • merge, consolidate or dispose of our assets; • pay dividends or repurchase our capital stock; • change our line of business; • accept any prepayments under or otherwise modify contracts with our customers; • enter into transactions with our affiliates; and • grant liens on our assets. If we were to incur such indebtedness, a material breach of any of these covenants would result in a default under this indebtedness which could result in significant harm to our business and operations. Our customers may need financing to purchase our systems, which exposes us to additional business and credit risks. Availability and cost of financing are significant factors that affect demand for our systems and services. Many of our customers can purchase our systems only when financing is available at a reasonable cost. Some customers 34 Table of Contents seek to acquire our systems and services through a long-term contract. We may rely on third parties to purchase the systems that are then subject to long-term contracts with our customers. In certain cases, we may indemnify the third party for any financial damages caused by our default under our long-term services agreement with our customer. This exposes us to potential additional costs in the event of our failure to perform. In addition, if we are unable to contract with third parties to purchase our systems in connection with the placement of our systems with municipal or industrial customers, we would be faced with either keeping these systems on our balance sheet or requiring our customers to purchase the equipment outright. Our ability to continue to lease systems to our customers may be impacted by our liquidity situation. Requiring customers to purchase our systems outright may delay or prevent the sale to our customer, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. We have recorded and will record non-cash expense in future periods that result in a decrease in our net income for a given period. As required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, we record expense for the fair value of stock options and restricted stock granted and this expense is reflected in our operating results. We rely on stock options to motivate current employees and attract new employees. As a result of the requirement to expense stock options, we may choose to reduce our reliance on stock options as a motivation tool. If we reduce our use of stock options, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified employees. However, if we do not reduce our reliance on stock options, our reported net loss may increase or our reported net income may decrease. We have also applied the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment, to warrants issued to lenders and other third parties including Cross Atlantic Partners, Aqua America and BWCA. The fair value of these warrants is expensed over the period of the related agreements, as appropriate. As a result, we recognized expense in 2005 and 2006 which affected our interest expense or selling, general and administrative expense, depending upon the nature of the underlying transaction. In May 2006 and May 2007, we repaid certain of our indebtedness. The remaining fair value of the associated warrants attributed to the debt was charged to interest expense during that period. In connection with the restatement of our financial statements, we determined to recognize the fair value of the warrants issued to Aqua America as interest expense at the time of the repayment of our indebtedness to Aqua America in 2007. We face a number of risks related to our acquisitions. Our growth strategy included several acquisitions. Acquisitions involve a number of risks, including the following: • we may experience adverse short-term effects on our operating results; • we may be unable to successfully and rapidly integrate the new businesses, personnel and products with our existing business, including financial reporting, management and information technology systems; • we may experience higher than anticipated costs of integration and unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures; • an acquisition may be in a market or geographical area in which we have little experience; • we may have difficulty in retaining key employees, including employees who may have been instrumental to the success or growth of the acquired business; and • we may use a substantial amount of our cash, common stock and other financial resources to consummate an acquisition. In September 2007, we acquired MPT, which is located in Tennessee, for approximately $12.2 million, consisting of $6.9 million in cash and 462,746 shares of our common stock with a fair value of $5.3 million. In September 2008, we acquired Envirogen from Shaw. There can be no assurance that we will achieve higher 35 Table of Contents revenues or benefit from any synergies as a result of these acquisitions. In 2008, we recorded an impairment charge related to the MPT assets we acquired. In addition, we may require additional debt or equity financing for future acquisitions, and such financing may not be available or on favorable terms, if available at all. We may not be able to successfully integrate or profitably operate any new business we acquire, and we cannot assure you that any such acquisition will meet our expectations. Finally, in the event we decide to discontinue pursuit of a potential acquisition, we will be required to immediately expense all costs incurred in pursuit of the possible acquisition which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the expense is recognized. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We expect that the price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. The price of our common stock may decline, and the price of our common stock that prevails in the market may be higher or lower than the price you pay, depending on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Factors that could cause fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock include: • the effects of the restatement of our financial statements; • our liquidity; • our ability to continue as a going concern; • failure of our systems or technology to achieve commercial success; • announcements of the introduction of new products or services by us or our competitors; • market conditions in our industry sectors; • developments concerning product development results or intellectual property rights of others; • litigation or public concern about the safety of our systems and services; • fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • securities analysts coverage of our common stock; • deviations in our operating results from estimates; • additions or departures of key personnel; • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; • the outcome of litigation; • general economic trends; or • sales of large blocks of our stock. In addition, the equity markets in general, and the Nasdaq Global Market in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often appeared to be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Further, the market prices of securities of water-related companies have been particularly volatile. These broad market and industry factors may affect the market price of our common stock adversely, regardless of our operating performance. 36 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents, as amended and restated, and under Delaware law could delay or discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. Some of these provisions include: • a board of directors divided into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; • a prohibition on stockholder action through written consent; • a requirement that special meetings of stockholders be called only by the chairman of our board of directors, the chief executive officer, the president or by a majority of the total number of authorized directors; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; • a requirement of approval of not less than 66 2/3% of all outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote to amend any bylaws by stockholder action, or to amend specific provisions of our certificate of incorporation; and • the authority of our board of directors to issue preferred stock on terms determined by our board of directors without stockholder approval. In addition, because we are a Delaware corporation, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by the then-current board of directors, including to delay or impede a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest involving our company. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS On October 23, 2008, we received comments from the Staff of the Division of Corporation Finance (the Staff) of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) with respect to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 (the 2007 Form 10-K), our Form NT 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2008 and our Form 8-K dated August 11, 2008. We provided responses to these comments on November 6, 2008 and January 23, 2009. On February 10, 2009, we filed our Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 2007 (the 2007 Form 10-K/A), our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q/A for the period ended March 31, 2008, our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2008 and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2008, which filings included disclosure to address the Staff’s comments in its October 23, 2008 letter. On March 6, 2009, we received additional comments from the Staff with respect to our 2007 Form 10-K/A and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q/A for the period ended March 31, 2008. On March 30, 2009, we sent a letter to the Staff responding to these comments. The Staff’s unresolved comments that we believe are material relate primarily to the following: • Our disclosure with respect to the number of systems on order pursuant to binding contracts for sale or lease and the number are installed and under contract; • Our contracts that allow for renegotiation of terms to recover increased costs and the number of contracts under which systems are operational; • The difference in capital commitments in the 2007 Form 10-K and the 2007 Form 10-K/A; 37 Table of Contents • Our analysis of the facts and circumstances that led to the application of FIN 46(R) and the consolidation of VL Capital (VLC) and Water Services Solutions (WSS) as well as why VLC and WSS were not separate reportable segments and the scheduled lease payments assigned to VLC and WSS; • Our unbilled receivables and revenues under the percentage of completion method; • Our determination of the market value of our shares of Empire Water Corporation (Empire), the accounting treatment of our equity in the net assets of the Empire and our gain with respect to the transaction with Empire; • Estimates with respect to our contract loss reserves and consideration of reserves for renewal periods; and • Our analysis in determining that there has been an impairment with respect to our investment in Empire. We have considered the Staff’s comments in the preparation of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Staff may have further comments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K or our other filings, which may require us to amend this Annual Report on Form 10-K or other filings. 