Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other documents we file with the SEC, are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information in this Annual Report before investing in our ordinary shares. Our business could be seriously harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our ordinary shares could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business Current global economic conditions may adversely affect our business. Our business and financial results may be affected by worldwide economic conditions. Throughout 2009 and early 2010, the semiconductor industry experienced a severe downturn fueled by the deteriorating global economic climate that drove companies to reassess their use of cash. As a result, many of our customers undertook restructuring activities and significantly cost cuts and capital spending, which adversely affected our operating results. While our revenue increased from the levels experienced in fiscal year 2009, we can not be certain that market conditions will continue to improve or that we can sustain current revenue levels. Slow or 20 Table of Contents negative growth in the domestic economy may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in the foreseeable future. If market conditions deteriorate it may negatively affect sales of our products and services, and we may experience increased collection times and greater write-offs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, cash flow and liquidity. Our business and operating results could be harmed by the highly cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry. Our business and operating results depend in significant part upon capital expenditures of semiconductor designers and manufacturers, which in turn depend upon the current and anticipated market demand for products incorporating semiconductors from these designers and manufacturers. Historically, the semiconductor industry has been highly cyclical with recurring periods of diminished product demand. During these periods, semiconductor designers and manufacturers, facing reduced demand for their products, have significantly reduced their capital and other expenditures, including expenditures for semiconductor test equipment and services such as those we offer. Furthermore, because we have a high proportion of customers that are subcontractors, which during market downturns tend to reduce or cancel orders for new test systems and test services more quickly and dramatically than other customers, any downturn may cause a quicker and more significant adverse impact on our business than on the broader semiconductor industry. As a consequence, during these periods, we have experienced significant reductions in new orders for the products and services we offer, postponement or cancellation of existing customer orders, erosion of selling prices and write-offs of excess and obsolete inventory and related charges for liabilities to our contract manufacturing partners. The downturn we experienced in fiscal year 2009 went beyond the normal cycles of the semiconductor industry, and seemed to be driven by the overall global economic conditions. We expect our business to continue to be subject to cyclical downturns even when the overall economic conditions improve. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly from period to period, and this may cause our share price to decline. In the past, we have experienced, and in the future we expect to continue to experience, fluctuations in revenue and operating results from quarter to quarter for a variety of reasons. For example, sales of a relatively limited number of our test systems account for a substantial portion of our net revenue in any particular quarter. At the same time, our costs are relatively fixed in the short-term. Thus, changes in the timing, or terms, of a small number of transactions could disproportionately affect our operating results in any particular quarter. In addition, a substantial portion of our quarterly sales have historically been made in the last month of the quarter, and a substantial portion of those sales occur in the last week of the quarter. The timing of theses sales at the end of the quarter increases the risk of unanticipated variations in quarterly results. As a result of these and other risks described elsewhere in this report, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue and operating results may not be meaningful, and that these comparisons may not be an accurate indicator of our future performance. If our operating results in one or more future quarters fail to meet the expectations of securities analyst or investors, an immediate and significant decline in the trading price of our ordinary shares may occur. We have a limited ability to quickly or significantly further reduce our costs, which makes us particularly vulnerable to the highly cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry. Since the beginning of fiscal year 2009, we have implemented a number of restructuring actions to streamline our organization and further reduce operating costs in order to address the cyclical downturn and the negative impact on our results driven by the deteriorating global economy. Among other things, our restructuring actions have included reducing our global workforce, which may impair our ability to effectively develop and market products to remain competitive in the markets in which we compete and to operate effectively. Our cost saving actions could have long-term effects on our business by reducing our pool of technical talent, decreasing or slowing improvements in our products, making it more difficult for us to respond to customers, limiting our ability to increase production quickly if, and when, the demand for our products increases and limiting our ability to hire and retain key personnel. 21 Table of Contents Historically, downturns in the semiconductor industry have affected the test equipment and services market more significantly than the overall semiconductor industry. A significant portion of our overall costs are fixed. Because a high proportion of our costs are fixed, we have a limited ability to reduce expenses and inventory purchases quickly in response to decreases in orders and revenues. Moreover, to remain competitive even during downturns in the semiconductor industry or generally, we must maintain a significant level of costs, including fixed costs. As a consequence, the actions we have taken to reduce costs, and similar actions we may take in the future, may not be sufficient to sustain profitability. Our dependence on sole source suppliers may prevent us from delivering our products on a timely basis. We rely on sole source suppliers, some of whom are relatively small in size, for many of the components we use in our products, including custom integrated circuits, relays and other electronic components. In the past we experienced, and in the future may experience, delays in shipping our products due to our dependence on sole source suppliers. Failure of our sole source suppliers to meet our requirements in a timely manner could impair our ability to ship products and to realize the related revenues when anticipated, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. We are dependent on contract manufacturers with whom we do not have long-term contracts, and changes to those relationships, expected or unexpected, may result in delays or disruptions that could cause us to lose revenue and damage our customer relationships. We rely entirely on contract manufacturers, which gives us less control over the manufacturing process and exposes us to significant risks, including limited control over capacity, late delivery, quality and costs. Moreover, because our products are very complex to manufacture, transitioning manufacturing activities from one location to another, or from one manufacturing partner to another, is complicated. Although we have contracts with our contract manufacturers, those contracts do not require them to manufacture our products on a long-term basis in any specific quantity or at any specific price. In addition, it is time consuming and costly to qualify and implement additional contract manufacturer relationships. Therefore, if we fail to effectively manage our contract manufacturer relationships, or if one or more of them should experience delays, disruptions or quality control problems, or if we had to change or add additional contract manufacturers or contract manufacturing sites, our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed. We completed the transition of our principal manufacturing activities to Jabil’s facility in Penang, Malaysia in the first quarter of fiscal year 2010. If Jabil is unable to meet our manufacturing requirements in a timely manner, our ability to ship products and to realize the related revenues when anticipated could be materially impacted. The market for semiconductor test equipment and services is highly concentrated, and we have limited opportunities to sell our test equipment and services. The semiconductor industry is highly concentrated in that a small number of semiconductor design manufacturers, and subcontractors account for a substantial portion of the purchases of semiconductor test equipment and services. Consolidation in the semiconductor industry is increasing this concentration. As a result of the concentration in the industry, our revenue is typically concentrated among a relatively small number of customers in any given period. For the year ended October 31, 2010, revenue from our top ten customers accounted for approximately 57.7% of our total net revenue, with one customer individually accounting for more than 10% of our total net revenue. We expect that sales of our products will continue to be concentrated with a limited number of large customers for the foreseeable future. Our financial results will depend in large part on this concentrated base of customers’ sales and business results. Our relationships with our significant customers, who frequently evaluate competitive products prior to placing new orders, could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: • a decision by other customers to purchase test equipment and services from our competitors; 22 Table of Contents • a decision by our customers to pursue the development and implementation of self-testing integrated circuits or other strategies that reduce their need for our products; • the loss of market share by our customers in the markets in which they operate; • the shift by our IDM customers to out-sourced manufacturing models; • our ability to keep pace with changes in semiconductor technology; • our ability to maintain quality levels of our equipment and services that meet customer expectations; • our ability to produce and deliver sufficient quantities of our test equipment in a timely manner; and • our ability to provide quality customer service and support. The loss of a significant customer, whether as a result of a failure or consolidation, will further concentrate, and could adversely impact, sales of our products. If we do not maintain and expand existing customer relationships and establish new customer relationships, our ability to generate revenue growth will be adversely affected. Our ability to increase our sales will depend in large part upon our ability to obtain orders for new test systems, enhancements for existing test systems and services from our existing and new customers. Maintaining and expanding our existing relationships and establishing new ones can require substantial investment without any assurance from customers that they will place significant orders. Moreover, if we are unable to provide new test systems, enhancements for existing test systems and services to our customers in a timely fashion or in sufficient quantities, our business will be harmed. In the past we have experienced, and in our industry it is not unusual to experience, difficulty in delivering new test equipment, product enhancements, and upgrades. When we encountered difficulties in the past, our customer relationships and our ability to generate additional revenue from customers were harmed. Our inability to meet the demands of customers would damage our reputation, which would make it more difficult for us to sell test equipment, enhancements and services to existing, as well as new, customers and would adversely affect our ability to generate revenue. In addition, we face significant obstacles in establishing new customer relationships. It is difficult to establish relationships with new customers because such companies may have existing relationships with our competitors, may be unfamiliar with our product and service offerings, may have an installed base of test equipment sufficient for their current needs or may not have the resources necessary to transition to, and train their employees on, our test equipment. Even if we do succeed in establishing new relationships, these new customers may continue to favor our competitors, as our competitors may have had longer relationships with these customers or may maintain a larger installed base of their competing test equipment and only purchase limited quantities from us. In addition, we could face difficulties in our efforts to develop new customer relationships abroad as a result of buying practices that may favor local competitors or non-local competitors with a larger presence in local economies than we have. As a result, we may be forced to partner with local companies in order to compete for business and such arrangements, if available, may not be achieved on economically favorable terms, which could negatively affect our financial performance. Failure to accurately estimate our customers’ demand and plan the production of our new and existing products could adversely affect our inventory levels and our income. Given the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, we cannot reliably forecast the timing and size of our customers’ orders. In order to meet anticipated demand, we must order components and build inventory before we actually receive purchase orders, which includes inventory at our contract manufacturers and suppliers where we have non-cancelable purchase commitments. Our results could be harmed if we do not accurately estimate our customers’ product demands and are unable to adjust our purchases according to market fluctuations, including those caused by the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry. During a market 23 Table of Contents upturn, our results could be materially and adversely affected if we cannot increase our purchases of components, parts and services quickly enough to meet increasing demand for our products, including securing sufficient capacity from our contract manufacturers. During a market downturn, we could have excess inventory that we would not be able to sell, resulting in inventory write-downs and in potential related liabilities to our contract manufacturing partners. For the year ended October 31, 2010, we recorded gross inventory-related provisions of $7 million. Having insufficient or excess inventory could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, if we do not successfully manage the introduction of our new products and estimate customer demand for such products, our ability to sell existing inventory may be adversely affected. If demand for our new products exceeds our projections, we might have insufficient quantities of products for sale to our customers, which could cause us to miss opportunities to increase revenues during market upturns. If our projections exceed demand for our new products or if some of our customers cancel their current orders for our old products in anticipation of our new products, we may have excess inventories of our products and excess obsolete inventories, which could result in material future inventory write-downs that would adversely affect our financial performance. Existing customers may be unwilling to bear expenses associated with transitioning to new and enhanced products. In order to grow our business, we need to sell new and enhanced products. Certain customers may be unwilling, or unable, to bear the costs of implementing new test equipment platforms or enhancements, particularly during semiconductor industry downturns. As a result, it may be difficult to market and sell these products and customers may continue to buy upgrades to older existing product lines which may be a lower cost alternative. As we introduce new test equipment and enhancements, we cannot predict with certainty when, or if, our customers will transition to those new product platforms. Any delay in, or failure of our customers to transition to, new products and enhancements could result in excess inventories, which could result in inventory write-downs that would adversely affect our financial performance. If we do not introduce new test equipment platforms and upgrade existing test equipment platforms in a timely manner, and if we do not offer comprehensive and competitive services for our test equipment platforms, our test equipment and services will become obsolete, and we could lose existing customers and our operating results will suffer. The semiconductor design and manufacturing industry into which we sell our test equipment is characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product introductions, including upgrades to existing test equipment, and evolving industry standards. The success of our new or upgraded test equipment offerings will depend on several factors, including our ability to: • properly identify customer needs and anticipate technological advances and industry trends, such as the disaggregation of the traditional IDM semiconductor supply chain into fabless design companies, foundries and packaging, assembly and test providers; • develop and commercialize new and enhanced technologies and applications that meet our customers’ evolving performance requirements in a timely manner; • develop and deliver enhancements and related services for our current test equipment that are capable of satisfying our customers’ specific test requirements; and • introduce and promote market acceptance of new test equipment platforms. In many cases, our test equipment and services are used by our customers to develop, test and manufacture their new products. We therefore must anticipate industry trends and develop new test equipment 24 Table of Contents platforms or upgrade existing test equipment platforms in advance of the commercialization of our customers’ products. In addition, new methods of testing integrated circuits, such as self-testing integrated circuits, may be developed which would render our test equipment uncompetitive or obsolete if we failed to adopt and incorporate these new methods into our new or existing test equipment platforms. Developing new test equipment platforms and upgrading existing test equipment platforms requires a substantial investment before we can determine the commercial viability of the new or upgraded platform. As our customers’ product requirements are diverse and subject to frequent change, we also need to ensure that we have an adequate mix of products that meet our customers’ varying requirements. If we fail to adequately predict our customers’ needs and technological advances, we may invest heavily in research and development of test equipment that does not lead to significant revenue, or we may fail to invest in technology necessary to meet changing customer demands. Without the timely introduction of new or upgraded test equipment that reflects technological advances, our test equipment and services would likely become obsolete, we may have difficulty retaining customers and our revenue and operating results would suffer. Our long and variable sales cycle depends upon factors outside of our control, and we may expend significant time and resources prior to our ever earning associated revenues. Sales of our semiconductor test equipment and services depend in significant part upon semiconductor designers and manufacturers upgrading existing manufacturing equipment to accommodate the requirements of new semiconductor devices and expanding existing, and adding new, manufacturing facilities. As a result, our sales are subject to a variety of factors we cannot control, including: • the complexity of our customers’ fabrication processes, which impacts the number of our test systems and amount of our product enhancements and upgrades our customers require; • the willingness of our customers to adopt new or upgraded test equipment platforms; • the internal technical capabilities and sophistication of our customers, which impacts their need for our test services; and • the capital expenditures of our customers. The decision to purchase our equipment and services generally involves a significant commitment of capital. As a result, our test equipment has lengthy and variable sales cycles during which we may expend substantial funds and management effort to secure a sale prior to receiving any commitment from a customer to purchase our test equipment or services. Prior to completing sales to our customers, we are often subject to a number of significant risks, including the risk that our competitors may compete for the sale or that the customer may change its technological requirements. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by our long and variable sales cycle and the uncertainty associated with expending substantial funds and effort with no guarantee that sales will be made. We face substantial competition which, among other things, may lead to price pressure and adversely affect our sales and revenue. We face substantial competition throughout the world in each of our product areas. Our most significant competitors historically have included Advantest Corporation, Teradyne, Inc., LTX-Credence Corporation, and Yokogawa Electric Corporation. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources, broader product offerings, more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing and customer support capabilities or a greater presence in certain countries than we do. We may have less leverage with component vendors than some of our competitors. Also, some of our competitors have greater resources and may be more willing or able than we are to put capital at risk to win business. Price reductions by our competitors may force us to lower our prices. We also expect our current competitors to continue to improve the performance of their current products and to introduce new products, technologies or services that could adversely affect sales of our current and future test 25 Table of Contents equipment and services. Additionally, current and future competitors may introduce testing technologies, equipment and services, which may in turn reduce the value of our own test equipment and services. Any of these circumstances may limit our opportunities for growth and negatively impact our financial performance. Test systems that contain defects that harm our customers could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers and revenue. Our test equipment is highly complex and employs advanced technologies. The use of complex technology in our test equipment increases the likelihood that we could experience design, performance or manufacturing problems. If any of our products have defects or reliability or quality problems, we may, be exposed to liability, our reputation could be damaged significantly, and customers might be reluctant to buy our products, which could result in a decline in revenues, an increase in product returns, loss of existing customers, or the failure to attract new customers. We may face competition from Agilent. Pursuant to the intellectual property matters agreement between us and Agilent that was entered into in connection with our separation from Agilent, Agilent transferred all of the intellectual property rights it held that relate exclusively to our products to us and agreed that, prior to October 31, 2009, it would not develop, manufacture, distribute, support or service automated test equipment for providing high-volume functional test of integrated circuits (including memory and high-speed memory devices and SOCs or SIPs) or components for automated semiconductor test systems. There were certain exceptions to Agilent’s agreement not to compete, and Agilent retained, and only licensed to us, the intellectual property rights to underlying technologies used in both our products and the products of Agilent. With the expiration of the agreement not to compete on October 31, 2009, Agilent is now free to compete with any portion, or all, of our business without restriction, and in doing so, will be free to use the retained underlying technologies. Agilent will not be permitted to use the intellectual property rights transferred to us, and licensed from us back to Agilent, to compete with us with respect to our core business of developing, manufacturing, selling and supporting automated semiconductor test systems. Agilent will, however, be able to use such intellectual property rights to develop and sell components for such systems, including systems developed and sold by us as well as those developed and sold by our competitors. While selling components has not represented a material portion of our business in the past, and is not expected to be an area of focus for the near future, our business could be adversely affected if systems offered by our competitors become more competitive as a result of Agilent supplying components for our competitors’ systems or if, by buying components from Agilent, our customers are able to delay, or bypass altogether, purchasing newer systems from us. Third parties may compete with us by using intellectual property that Agilent licensed to us under the intellectual property matters agreement. Under the intellectual property matters agreement, Agilent retained and only licensed to us the intellectual property rights to underlying technologies used in both our products and the products of Agilent. Under the agreement, Agilent remains free to license the intellectual property rights to the underlying technologies to any party, including our competitors. The intellectual property that Agilent retained and that can be licensed in this manner does not relate solely or primarily to one or more of our products, or groups of products, rather, the intellectual property that Agilent licensed to us is generally used broadly across our entire product portfolio. Competition by third parties using the underlying technologies retained by Agilent could harm our business and operating results. 26 Table of Contents Third parties may claim we are infringing upon their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling our products or services. Our industry has been, and continues to be, characterized by uncertain and conflicting intellectual property claims and vigorous protection and pursuit of these rights. As a result, third parties may claim that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights, and we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology, products and services. Any litigation, regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming, and divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. The complexity of the technology involved, and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. Claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. However, we may not be able to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain of our products and services. Third parties may infringe upon our intellectual property, and we may expend significant resources enforcing our rights or suffer competitive injury. Our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our operating results. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights and there can be no assurance that, even with significant expenditures, we will be able to protect our intellectual property rights. In addition, our agreements with Agilent, and in particular the intellectual property matters agreement, set forth the terms and provisions under which we received the intellectual property rights necessary to operate our business. Under our agreements with Agilent, we do not have the right to enforce against third parties intellectual property rights we license from Agilent, and Agilent is under no obligation to enforce such rights on our behalf. Intellectual property rights are difficult to enforce in certain countries, which may inhibit our ability to protect our intellectual property rights or those of our suppliers and customers in those countries. The laws of some countries do not offer the same level of protection of our proprietary rights as the laws of the United States, and we may be subject to unauthorized use of our products or technologies in those countries, particularly in Asia, where we expect our business to continue to expand in the foreseeable future. Consequently, we cannot assure you that we will be able to protect our intellectual property rights or have adequate legal recourse in the event that we encounter difficulties with infringements of intellectual property under local law. We may incur a variety of costs to engage in future acquisitions of, or investments in, companies, products or technologies, and the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions we may make may never be realized. We may acquire, or make significant or minority investments in, complementary businesses, products or technologies. For example, in fiscal year 2009, we acquired substantially all of the assets of Touchdown. Any future acquisitions or investments could be accompanied by risks such as: • difficulties in assimilating the operations and personnel of acquired companies; • diversion of our management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; • our potential inability to maximize our financial and strategic position through the successful incorporation of acquired technology and rights into our products and services; 27 Table of Contents • additional expense associated with amortization of acquired assets; • difficulty in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; • impairment of existing relationships with employees, suppliers and customers as a result of the integration of new management personnel; • dilution to our shareholders in the event we issue shares as consideration to finance an acquisition; • impairment of goodwill associated with the acquisition or investment, requiring us to record a significant charge to earnings; • difficulty integrating and implementing the accounting controls necessary to comply with regulatory requirements such as Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; and • increased leverage, if we incur debt to finance an acquisition. We cannot guarantee that we will realize any benefit from the integration of any business, products or technologies that we might acquire in the future, and our failure to do so could harm our business. Our executive officers and certain key personnel are critical to our business. Our future operating results will depend substantially upon the performance of our executive officers and key personnel. Our future operating results also depend in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, manufacturing, technical, application engineering, marketing, sales and support personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we cannot ensure success in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. Our business is particularly dependent on expertise which only a very limited number of engineers possess and it may be increasingly difficult for us to hire personnel over time. We operate in several geographic locations, including parts of Asia and Silicon Valley, where the labor markets, especially for application engineers, are particularly competitive. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the loss of any of our key employees, by the failure of any key employee to perform in his or her current position, or by our inability to attract and retain skilled employees, particularly engineers. Funds associated with our auction rate securities may not be accessible for in excess of 12 months and our auction rate securities may experience an other-than-temporary decline in value, which would adversely affect our income. As of October 31, 2010, all of our auction rate securities have experienced failed auctions. The funds associated with these auctions will not be accessible to us until a successful auction occurs, a buyer is found outside of the auction process, or the underlying securities have matured or are called by the issuer. Given the ongoing disruptions in the credit markets and the fact that the liquidity for these types of securities remains uncertain, we have classified all of our auction rate securities as long-term assets in our consolidated balance sheet as of October 31, 2010, as our ability to liquidate such securities in the next 12 months is uncertain. Our effective tax rate may vary significantly from period to period, and we could owe significant taxes even during periods when we experience low operating profit or operating losses. We are incorporated in Singapore and have negotiated tax incentives with the Singapore Economic Development Board, an agency of the Government of Singapore, which have been approved by Singapore’s Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Trade and Industry. Under the incentives, a portion of the income we earn in Singapore during these ten to fifteen year incentive periods is subject to reduced rates of Singapore income tax. The incentive tax rates will expire in various fiscal years beginning in fiscal 2016. The Singapore corporate income tax rates that would apply, absent the incentives, is 17% for fiscal years 2010 and 2009 and 18% for fiscal year 2008. Without these incentives, our income taxes would have increased by $4 million or $0.07 per share (diluted) for fiscal year 2010, decreased by $21 million or $0.35 per share (diluted) for fiscal year 2009, 28 Table of Contents and increased by $4 million or $0.07 per share (diluted) for fiscal year 2008. In order to receive the benefit of the incentives, we must develop and maintain in Singapore certain functions such as procurement, financial services, order management, credit and collections, spare parts depot and distribution center, a refurbishment center and regional activities like an application development center. In addition to these qualifying activities, we must hire a specified number of employees and maintain minimum levels of investment in Singapore. We have from two to nine years to phase-in the qualifying activities and to hire the specified numbers of employees. If we do not fulfill these conditions for any reason, our incentive could lapse, our income in Singapore would be subject to taxation at higher rates, and our overall effective tax rate could be between fifteen to twenty percentage points higher than would have been the case had we maintained the benefit of the incentives. In addition, our effective tax rate may vary significantly from period to period because, for example, we may owe significant taxes in jurisdictions other than Singapore during periods when we are profitable in those jurisdictions even though we may be experiencing low operating profit or operating losses on a consolidated basis. Our effective tax rate varies based on a variety of factors, including overall profitability, the geographical mix of income before taxes and the related tax rates in the jurisdictions where we operate. In addition, there is no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Certain combinations of these factors could cause us to owe significant taxes even during periods when we experience low income before taxes or loss before taxes. Currently, we do not maintain a valuation allowance for any deferred tax assets, except for capital losses, as we believe that it is more likely than not that all deferred tax assets will be realized. If we generate significant losses, we may be required to establish a valuation for deferred tax assets depending on our future profitability. This would result in an incremental tax provision and could adversely impact our results of operations. We sell our products and services worldwide, and our business is subject to risks inherent in conducting business activities in geographies outside of the United States. Our corporate headquarters are in the United States, however, we sell our products and services worldwide. As a result, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. The economies of Asia, where a large majority of our revenue comes from, have been highly volatile and recessionary in the past, resulting in significant fluctuations in demand. Our exposure to the business risks presented by the economies of Asia would increase to the extent that we expand our operations in that region. Our international activities subject us to a number of risks associated with conducting operations internationally, including: • difficulties in managing geographically disparate operations; • potential greater difficulty and longer time in collecting accounts receivable from customers located abroad; • difficulties in enforcing agreements through non-U.S. legal systems; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements that may limit our ability to export our software or sell into particular jurisdictions or impose multiple conflicting tax laws and regulations; • political and economic instability, civil unrest or war; • terrorist activities and health risks such as the “flu epidemic” and SARS that impact international commerce and travel; • difficulties in protecting our intellectual property rights, particularly in countries where the laws and practices do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws and practices of the United States; • changing laws and policies affecting economic liberalization, foreign investment, currency 29 Table of Contents • convertibility or exchange rates, taxation or employment; and • nationalization of foreign owned assets, including intellectual property. In addition, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange movements versus the U.S. dollar, particularly the euro and the Japanese yen. With respect to revenue, our primary exposure exists during the period between execution of a purchase order denominated in a foreign currency and collection of the related receivable. During this period, changes in the exchange rates of the foreign currency to the U.S. dollar will affect our revenue, cost of sales and operating margins and could result in exchange gains or losses. While a significant portion of our purchase orders to date have been denominated in U.S. dollars, competitive conditions may require us to enter into an increasing number of purchase orders denominated in foreign currencies. We incur a variety of costs in foreign currencies, including some of our manufacturing costs, component costs and sales costs. Therefore, as we expand our operations in Asia, we may become more exposed to a strengthening of currencies in the region against the U.S. dollar. We cannot assure you that any hedging transactions we may enter into will be effective or will not result in foreign exchange hedging gains or losses. As a result, we are exposed to greater risks in currency fluctuations. If our facilities or the facilities of our contract manufacturers were to experience catastrophic loss due to natural disasters, our operations would be seriously harmed. Our facilities and the facilities of our contract manufacturers could be subject to a catastrophic loss caused by natural disasters, including fires and earthquakes. We and our contract manufacturers have significant facilities in areas with above average seismic activity, such as California, Japan and Taiwan. If any of these facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production and shipments, reduce revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. We do not carry catastrophic insurance policies that cover potential losses caused by earthquakes. Risks Relating to the Merger with LTX-Credence Corporation The issuance of our ordinary shares to LTX-Credence shareholders in the merger will substantially reduce the percentage interests of Verigy shareholders. If the merger is completed, we expect that approximately 49 million of our ordinary shares of will be issued to LTX-Credence shareholders. As a result, Verigy and LTX-Credence shareholders will own approximately 56 percent and 44 percent, respectively, of the combined company. The issuance of approximately 49 million ordinary shares to the LTX-Credence shareholders will cause a significant reduction in the relative percentage interest of current Verigy shareholders in voting, liquidation value and book and market value. Even if we receive the regulatory approvals required to complete the merger with LTX-Credence, governmental authorities could still seek to block or challenge the merger. The merger is subject to review by the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice and the FTC under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 (HSR Act). Under the HSR Act, Verigy and LTX-Credence are required to make pre-merger notification filings and to await the expiration or early termination of the statutory waiting period prior to completing the merger. The merger is also subject to review by certain other governmental authorities under the antitrust laws of various other jurisdictions where Verigy/LTX-Credence conducts business. We have made all of the required regulatory filings and the scheduled waiting periods are expected to expire in late 2010 or early 2011, assuming the relevant authorities do not require additional information. Assuming we receive all regulatory clearances, consents and approvals required to complete the merger, which cannot be guaranteed, even after the statutory waiting periods have expired, and after completion of the merger, governmental authorities could seek to block or challenge the merger as they deem necessary or desirable in the public interest. In addition, in some jurisdictions, a competitor, customer or other third party could 30 Table of Contents initiate a private action under the antitrust laws challenging or seeking to enjoin the merger, before or after it is completed. Verigy, LTX-Credence or the combined company may not prevail, or may incur significant costs, in defending or settling any action under the antitrust laws. Although we expect that the merger will result in benefits to the combined company, the combined company may not realize those benefits because of integration and other challenges. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate the business of LTX-Credence with the business of Verigy. The combination of two independent companies is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. This process may disrupt the business of either or both of the companies, and may not result in the full benefits that we expect. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others: • coordinating marketing functions; • unanticipated issues in integrating information, communications and other systems; • unanticipated incompatibility of technology, logistics, marketing and administration methods; • retaining key employees; • consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures; • the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; and • coordinating geographically separate organizations. We cannot assure you that the combination of LTX-Credence with Verigy will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated from the merger. If the proposed merger is not completed, we will have incurred substantial costs that may adversely affect our financial results and operations and the market price of our ordinary shares. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, substantial costs in connection with the proposed merger. These costs are primarily associated with the fees of attorneys, accountants, and financial advisors. In addition, we have diverted significant management resources in an effort to complete the merger and we are subject to restrictions contained in the merger agreement on the conduct of our business. If the merger is not completed, we will have incurred significant costs, including the diversion of management resources, for which we will have received little or no benefit. Also, if the merger is not completed under certain circumstances specified in the merger agreement, we may be required to pay LTX-Credence a break-up fee of $15 million. In the event the merger is terminated by us or LTX-Credence in circumstances that obligate either party to pay the break-up fee to the other party, including where either party terminates the merger agreement because the other party’s board of directors withdraws its support of the merger, the price of our ordinary shares may decline. In addition, if the merger is not completed, we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets and from our customers, suppliers and employees. Each of these factors may adversely affect the trading price of our ordinary shares and our financial results and operations. Provisions of the merger agreement may deter alternative business combinations. Restrictions in the merger agreement on solicitation generally prohibit us from soliciting any acquisition proposal or offer for a merger or business combination with any other party, including a proposal that might be advantageous to our shareholders when compared to the terms and conditions of the proposed merger. In addition, if the merger is not completed under certain circumstances specified in the merger agreement, we may be required to pay LTX-Credence a break-up fee of $15 million. These provisions may deter third parties from proposing or pursuing alternative business combinations that might result in greater value to our shareholders than the merger, and will restrict the manner in which we respond to any such proposals received from a third party. 31 Table of Contents Risks Relating to the Unsolicited Proposal by Advantest Corporation The unsolicited proposal by Advantest Corporation will likely require us to incur significant additional costs, be disruptive to our business, be distracting for our management, employees, customers and vendors, and may impact our proposed transaction with LTX-Credence. On December 6, 2010, our board of directors announced that it had received an unsolicited proposal from Advantest to acquire all of our outstanding ordinary shares for $12.15 per share in cash. After careful consideration of the strategic, financial and legal aspects of the unsolicited proposal and the nature and timing of the unsolicited proposal with the assistance of its independent financial and legal advisors, our board of directors unanimously determined that the proposal is not superior to the pending transaction with LTX-Credence Corporation. However, our board of directors believes the Advantest proposal might lead to a superior transaction. As a result, our board of directors has determined to engage in discussions with Advantest. There can be no assurances that any definitive agreement or transaction will result from the Advantest proposal or our discussions with Advantest. Following the announcement of the unsolicited proposal, the market price of our ordinary shares experienced volatility and increased significantly. If for any reason we do not enter into a transaction with Advantest, the market price of our ordinary shares may decline. Further, responding to Advantest’s unsolicited proposal is expected to result in the incurrence of additional expenses in the form of legal and advisory fees related to the evaluation of the unsolicited proposal, which may be material to our financial position and results of operations. The review and consideration of the Advantest proposal may be a significant distraction for our management and employees and may require the expenditure of significant time and resources by us. Advantest’s proposal may also create uncertainty for our employees, and this uncertainty may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees and to hire new talent, and also may create uncertainty for our current and potential customers, suppliers and business partners, which may cause them to terminate, or not to renew or enter into, arrangements with us. Additionally, Advantest’s proposal and related actions may impact our proposed transaction with LTX-Credence. These foregoing effects, alone or in combination, may harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Ordinary Shares. If we were classified as a passive foreign investment company, there would be adverse tax consequences to U.S. holders of our ordinary shares. If we were classified as a “passive foreign investment company” or “PFIC” under section 1297 of the Internal Revenue Code, of 1986, as amended, or the Code, for any taxable year during which a U.S. holder holds ordinary shares, such U.S. holder generally would be taxed at ordinary income tax rates on any gain realized on the sale or exchange of the ordinary shares and on any “excess distributions” (including constructive distributions) received on the ordinary shares. Such U.S. holder could also be subject to a special interest charge with respect to any such gain or excess distribution. We would be classified as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes in any taxable year in which either (i) at least 75% of our gross income is passive income or (ii) on average, the percentage of our assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income is at least 50% (determined on an average gross value basis). We were not classified as a PFIC for fiscal year 2010 or in any prior taxable year. Whether we will, in fact, be classified as a PFIC for any subsequent taxable year depends on our assets and income over the course of the relevant taxable year and, as a result, cannot be predicted with certainty. In particular, because the total value of our assets for purposes of the asset test will be calculated based upon the market price of our ordinary shares, a significant and sustained decline in the market price of our ordinary shares and corresponding market capitalization relative to our passive assets could result in our being classified as a PFIC. There can be no assurance that we will not be classified as a PFIC in the future or the Internal Revenue Service will not challenge our determination concerning PFIC status for any prior period. 32 Table of Contents At times, our stock price has fluctuated significantly, and such fluctuations in the future could result in substantial losses for our investors. The trading price of our ordinary shares has at times fluctuated significantly. For example, during fiscal year 2010, the trading price of our ordinary shares ranged from a low of $7.48 to a high of $13.75. Fluctuations have occurred and may continue to occur in response to various factors, many of which we cannot control, including: • general economic and political conditions and specific conditions in the semiconductor industry; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates or publication of research reports by securities analysts; • strategic moves by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • announcements of new products or technical innovations by us or our competitors; • actions by institutional shareholders; and • speculation in the press or investment community. Accordingly, investors may not be able to resell their ordinary shares at or above the price they paid. We may become involved in securities litigation that could divert management’s attention and harm our business. The stock market in general, and The NASDAQ Global Select Market and the securities of semiconductor capital equipment companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. These market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Such litigation, whether or not meritorious, could result in the expenditure of substantial funds, divert management’s attention and resources, and harm our reputation in the industry and the securities markets, which would reduce our profitability and harm our business. It may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States on us or to enforce civil liabilities under the U.S. federal securities laws of the United States against us. We are incorporated in Singapore. Some of our officers and directors reside outside the United States. A substantial portion of our assets is located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us. Similarly, investors may be unable to enforce judgments obtained in U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States against us in U.S. courts. Judgments of U.S. courts based upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States are not directly enforceable in Singapore courts and are not given the same effect in Singapore as judgments of a Singapore court. Accordingly, there can be no assurance as to whether Singapore courts will enter judgments in actions brought in Singapore courts based upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 33 Table of Contents 