ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Our emphasis on construction, commercial and multi-family real estate lending and commercial business lending may expose us to increased lending risks. At September 30, 2007, we had $125.8 million in real estate construction loans, $57.2 million in commercial real estate loans, $12.2 million in multi-family loans and $18.0 million in commercial business loans, which represented 47.12%, 21.44%, 4.57% and 6.72%, respectively, of our total loan portfolio. Moreover, we intend to increase our emphasis on commercial real estate, multi-family, commercial and multi-family real estate construction and commercial business lending. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than single-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property, the income stream of the borrowers and, for construction loans, the accuracy of the estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction and the estimated cost of construction. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to single-family residential mortgage loans. Commercial business loans expose us to additional risks since they typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayments from the cash flow of the borrower’s business and are secured by non-real estate collateral that may depreciate over time. Nonperforming assets totaled $5.1 million, or 1.53% of total assets, at September 30, 2007, which was a decrease of $703,000, or 12.1%, from $5.8 million, or 2.02% of total assets, at September 30, 2006. Nonperforming assets at September 30, 2007 consisted of $3.4 million in non-accrual loans and $1.7 million in foreclosed real estate. At September 30, 2007, non-accrual loans consisted of $1.9 million in real estate construction loans, $104,000 in single-family loans and one land development loan totaling $1.4 million. At September 30, 2007, we had no loans which were not currently classified as non-accrual, 90 days past due, restructured or impaired but where known information about possible credit problems of borrowers caused management to have serious concerns as to the ability of the borrowers to comply with present loan repayment terms and would result in disclosure as non-accrual, 90 days past due, restructured or impaired. Our loan portfolio has significant concentrations among a small number of borrowers; as a result, we could be adversely affected by difficulties experienced by a small number of borrowers. As a result of large loan concentrations among a relatively small number of borrowers, we could incur significant losses if a small number of our borrowers are unable to repay their loans to us. At September 30, 2007, we had 31 borrowers with aggregate loan balances exceeding 5.0% of our consolidated stockholders’ equity at that date. Loans to these borrowers aggregated $152.0 million, which represented 56.9% of our total loan portfolio at that date. These loans primarily are residential real estate development, residential real estate construction or commercial real estate loans. Aggregate loan balances to these customers ranged from $2.6 million to $9.9 million for our largest borrower. While we seek to control our risk and minimize losses on these large loan concentrations, if one or more of our large borrowers were to default on their loans we could incur significant losses. A downturn in the local economy or a decline in real estate values could hurt our profits. Nearly all of our real estate loans are secured by real estate in the Kansas City metropolitan area. In addition, through our portfolio of real estate construction loans, which includes loans to acquire land for development of residential property and loans to builders for the construction of residences, we have significant exposure to the residential construction market in the Kansas City metropolitan area. As a result, a downturn in the local economy, and, particularly, a downturn in the residential construction industry, could cause significant increases in non-performing loans, which would adversely affect our profits. Additionally, a decrease in asset quality could require additions to our allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses, which would negatively affect our profits. A decline in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage loans to become inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss. For a discussion of our market area, see “Item 1. Business – Market Area.” 21 Strong competition within our market area could hurt our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and has occasionally forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in our earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which reduces net interest income. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. See “Item 1. Business – Competition.” We will incur additional expenses relating to our strategic plan to expand through de novo branching in the Kansas City metropolitan area. We opened one new branch in Independence, Missouri in May 2005, a second new branch in Kansas City, Missouri in January 2006 and a third new branch in Gladstone, Missouri in September 2007. We anticipate that over the next three to five years, based on and subject to local market conditions, we will open additional branch offices in suburban Kansas City growth areas that complement our existing branch network. In connection with the expansion of our branch network, we intend to hire additional lending and other employees to support our expanded infrastructure. While we anticipate that this expansion strategy will enhance long-term shareholder value, it is possible that our branch expansion strategy may not become accretive to our earnings over the short term. New branches generally require a significant initial capital investment and take three years or longer to become profitable. New branches require an upfront investment of between $2.0 million and $3.0 million for land and building expenses. Accordingly, we anticipate that, in the short term, net income will be negatively affected as we incur significant capital expenditures and noninterest expense in opening and operating new branches before the new branches can produce sufficient net interest income to offset the increased expense. In addition, the need to use capital to fund de novo branching may limit our ability to pay or increase dividends on our common stock. There also is implementation risk associated with new branches. Numerous factors will determine whether our branch expansion strategy will be successful, such as our ability to select suitable branch locations, real estate acquisition costs, competition, interest rates, managerial resources, our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel, the effectiveness of our marketing strategy and our ability to attract deposits. Certain interest rate movements may hurt our earnings and asset value. Interest rates have recently been at historically low levels. However, since June 30, 2004, the U.S. Federal Reserve has increased its target for the federal funds rate from 1.25% at June 30, 2004 to 4.25% at December 11, 2007. While these short-term market interest rates (which we use as a guide to price our deposits) have increased, longer-term market interest rates (which we use as a guide to price our longer-term loans) have not. This “flattening” of the market yield curve has had a negative impact on our interest rate spread and net interest margin to date. If short-term interest rates continue to rise, and if rates on our deposits and borrowings continue to reprice upwards faster than the rates on our loans and investments, we would experience a further compression of our interest rate spread and net interest margin, which would have a negative effect on our profitability. Conversely, if short-term interest rates decline and if rates on our loans and investments reprice downward faster than our rates on deposits, then we would also experience a further compression of our interest rate spread and net interest margin, which would have a negative effect on our profitability. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest-earning assets and in particular our securities portfolio. Generally, the value of fixed-rate securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of equity, net of tax. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale resulting from increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. Our interest rate risk models project that, based on a variety of assumptions, in the event of an immediate 200 basis point increase in interest rates our estimated net portfolio value, which represents the market value of our assets minus the market value of our liabilities, would be expected to decrease by 13.0%. Conversely, in the event of an immediate 200 basis point decrease in interest rates our estimated net portfolio value would be expected to increase by 9.0%. 22 The loss of our President and Chief Executive Officer could hurt our operations. We rely heavily on our President and Chief Executive Officer, Brent M. Giles. The loss of Mr. Giles could have an adverse effect on us because, as a small community bank, Mr. Giles has more responsibility than would be typical at a larger financial institution with more employees. In addition, as a small community bank, we have fewer management-level personnel who are in position to succeed and assume the responsibilities of Mr. Giles. We have entered into a three-year employment contract with Mr. Giles. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. The Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, our primary federal regulator, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of its deposits. Liberty Bancorp will also be subject to regulation and supervision by the Office of Thrift Supervision. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and for the depositors and borrowers of the Bank. The regulation and supervision by the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation are not intended to protect the interests of investors in Liberty Bancorp common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. Office of Thrift Supervision regulations and anti-takeover provisions in our articles of incorporation restrict the accumulation of our common stock, which may adversely affect our stock price. Office of Thrift Supervision regulations provide that, for a period of three years following the date of completion of the conversion, no person, acting alone, together with associates or in a group of persons acting in concert, may directly or indirectly offer to acquire or acquire the beneficial ownership of more than 10% of our common stock without the prior written approval of the Office of Thrift Supervision. In addition, Liberty Bancorp’s articles of incorporation provide that, for a period of five years from the date of the conversion, no person may acquire directly or indirectly the beneficial ownership of more than 10% of any class of any equity security of Liberty Bancorp. In the event a person acquires shares in violation of this charter provision, all shares beneficially owned by such person in excess of 10% will be considered “excess shares” and will not be counted as shares entitled to vote or counted as voting shares in connection with any matters submitted to the stockholders for a vote. These factors may make it more difficult and less attractive for stockholders to acquire a significant amount of our common stock, which may adversely affect our stock price. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 23 Item 