Item 1A. Risk Factors Our emphasis on construction, commercial and multi-family real estate lending and commercial business lending may expose us to increased lending risks. At September 30, 2009, we had $69.2 million in real estate construction loans, $122.6 million in commercial real estate loans, $29.2 million in multi-family loans and $22.5 million in commercial business loans, which represented 22.1%, 39.2%, 9.3% and 7.2%, respectively, of our total loan portfolio. Moreover, we intend to maintain our emphasis on commercial real estate, multi-family, commercial and multi-family real estate construction and commercial business lending. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than single-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property, the income stream of the borrowers and, for construction loans, the accuracy of the estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction and the estimated cost of construction. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to single-family residential mortgage loans. Commercial business loans expose us to additional risks since they typically are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayments from the cash flow of the borrower’s business and are secured by non-real estate collateral that may depreciate over time. Nonperforming assets totaled $5.5 million, or 1.41% of total assets, at September 30, 2009, which was a decrease of $7.6 million, or 58.02%, from $13.1 million, or 3.91% of total assets, at September 30, 2008. Nonperforming assets at September 30, 2009 consisted of $67,000 in nonaccrual loans, $2.6 million in impaired loans and $2.8 million in foreclosed real estate. At September 30, 2009, nonaccrual loans consisted of $40,000 one to four family loans and consumer loans totaling $27,000. Impaired loans consisted of seven single-family loans. At September 30, 2009, we had no loans which were not currently classified as nonaccrual, 90 days past due, restructured or impaired but where known information about possible credit problems of borrowers caused management to have serious concerns as to the ability of the borrowers to comply with present loan repayment terms and would result in disclosure as non-accrual, 90 days past due, restructured or impaired. Our loan portfolio has significant concentrations among a small number of borrowers; as a result, we could be adversely affected by difficulties experienced by a small number of borrowers. As a result of large loan concentrations among a relatively small number of borrowers, we could incur significant losses if a small number of our borrowers are unable to repay their loans to us. At September 30, 2009, we had 41 borrowers with aggregate loan balances exceeding 5% of our consolidated stockholders’ equity at that date. Loans to these borrowers aggregated $222.2 million, which represented 70.97% of our total loan portfolio at that date. These loans primarily are residential real estate development, residential real estate construction or commercial real estate loans. Aggregate loan balances to these customers ranged from $2.2 million to $17.3 million for our largest borrower. While we seek to control our risk and minimize losses on these large loan concentrations, if one or more of our large borrowers were to default on their loans we could incur significant losses. Severe, adverse and precipitous economic and market conditions have adversely affected us and our industry. The recent negative events in the housing market, including significant and continuing home price reductions coupled with the upward trends in delinquencies and foreclosures, have resulted and will likely continue to result in poor performance of mortgage and construction loans and with further deterioration, in significant asset writedowns by many financial institutions. Reduced availability of commercial credit and increasing unemployment further contribute to deteriorating credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional writedowns. Financial market and economic instability have caused financial institutions to severely restrict their lending to customers and each other. This market turmoil and credit tightening has exacerbated commercial and consumer deficiencies, the lack of consumer confidence, market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. Financial institutions also have experienced decreased access to deposits and borrowings. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets has and may continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. 20 A continued downturn in the local economy or a further decline in real estate values could hurt our profits. Nearly all of our real estate loans are secured by real estate in the Kansas City metropolitan area. In addition, through our portfolio of real estate construction loans, which includes loans to acquire land for development of residential property and loans to builders for the construction of residences, we have significant exposure to the residential construction market in the Kansas City metropolitan area. As a result, a continued downturn in the local economy, and, particularly, a continued downturn in the residential construction industry, could cause significant increases in non-performing loans, which would adversely affect our profits. Additionally, a decrease in asset quality could require additions to our allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses, which would negatively affect our profits. A decline in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage loans to become inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss. For a discussion of our market area, see “Item 1. Business – Market Area.” Future FDIC assessments will hurt our earnings. In May 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule imposing a special assessment on all insured institutions due to recent bank and savings association failures. The emergency assessment amounts to 5 basis points of total assets minus Tier 1 Capital as of June 30, 2009, and was collected on September 30, 2009. This special assessment of $173,000 was paid on September 30, 2009 and is included in the FDIC premium expense of $550,000 for the year ended September 2009. The Company will be required by the FDIC to prepay their deposit insurance for the next three years on December 30, 2009 as a result of deterioration in the Deposit Insurance Fund reserve ratio due to institution failures. This will be shown on the Company’s balance sheet as a prepaid asset and amortized over the next three years. We estimate that the prepayment fee will be approximately $1.47 million and our FDIC premium expense will total $375,000 for the year ended 2010. Any additional emergency special assessment imposed by the FDIC will further hurt the Company's earnings. Strong competition within our market area could hurt our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and has occasionally forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in our earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which reduces net interest income. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. See “Item 1. Business – Competition.” Proposed regulatory reform may have a material impact on our operations. On June 17, 2009, President Obama published a comprehensive regulatory reform plan intended to modernize and protect the integrity of the United States financial system. The President’s plan contains several elements that would have a direct effect on the Company and the Bank. Under the reform plan, the federal thrift charter and the Office of Thrift Supervision would be eliminated and all companies that control an insured depository institution must register as a bank holding company. Although the reform plan does not specify how existing federal thrifts, such as the Bank, would be treated, we expect that if the federal thrift charter is eliminated the Bank, could become a national bank or adopt a state charter. Registration as a bank holding company would represent a significant change, as there currently exist significant differences between savings and loan holding company and bank holding company supervision and regulation. For example, the Federal Reserve imposes leverage and risk-based capital requirements on bank holding companies whereas the Office of Thrift Supervision does not impose any capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies. Further, a change in the bank regulatory structure could result in a change in the way that mutual holding companies are regulated. The reform plan also proposes the creation of a new federal agency, the Consumer Financial Protection Agency, that would be dedicated to protecting consumers in the financial products and services market. The creation of this agency could result in new regulatory requirements and raise the cost of regulatory compliance. In addition, legislation stemming from the reform plan could require changes in regulatory capital requirements, loan loss provisioning practices, and compensation practices. If implemented, the foregoing regulatory reforms may have a material impact on our operations. However, because the legislation needed to implement the President’s reform plan has not been finalized, and because the final legislation may differ significantly from the reform plan proposed by the President, we cannot determine the specific impact of regulatory reform at this time. 21 Certain interest rate movements could reduce our net interest income and earnings. Our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans and investments less the interest we pay on our deposits and borrowings. Our net interest margin is the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding. Changes in interest rates—up or down—could adversely affect our net interest margin and, as a result, our net interest income. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. Our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. As a result, when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract until the yield catches up. Changes in the slope of the “yield curve”—or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates—could also reduce our net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. Because our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, we could experience pressure on our net interest margin as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets. The loss of our President and Chief Executive Officer could hurt our operations. We rely heavily on our President and Chief Executive Officer, Brent M. Giles. The loss of Mr. Giles could have an adverse effect on us because, as a small community bank, Mr. Giles has more responsibility than would be typical at a larger financial institution with more employees. In addition, as a small community bank, we have fewer management-level personnel who are in position to succeed and assume the responsibilities of Mr. Giles. We have entered into a three-year employment contract with Mr. Giles. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. The Bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, our primary federal regulator, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of its deposits. Liberty Bancorp will also be subject to regulation and supervision by the Office of Thrift Supervision. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and for the depositors and borrowers of the Bank. The regulation and supervision by the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation are not intended to protect the interests of investors in Liberty Bancorp common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 22 Item 