Item 1A. Risk Factors. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results and financial condition, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we deem to be currently immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the stated risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. The ongoing decline in the commercial real estate market and overall economy could negatively affect our revenues, expenses and operating results. Our business is sensitive to trends in the general economy and trends in commercial real estate markets, which are unpredictable and continue to experience severe disruptions. Currently, the credit crisis and turbulence in the debt markets continue to affect the investment sales market, contributing to a significant slow down in our industry, which we anticipate will continue during 2010. These negative general economic conditions could further reduce the overall amount of sale and leasing activity in the commercial real estate industry, and hence the demand for our services. Conditions such as continued tightening in credit markets, reduced industry-wide transaction volumes and negative trends in consumer confidence in global and domestic markets could also further dampen the general economy, and our business. While we believe the increase in the number of distressed sales and resulting decrease in asset prices will eventually translate to greater market activity, the current overall reduction in sales transaction volume continues to negatively impact our business. Therefore, our operating results, to the extent they reflect changes in the broader commercial real estate industry, may be subject to significant fluctuations. Factors that are affecting and could further affect the commercial real estate industry include: • periods of economic slowdown or recession globally, in the United States or locally; • inflation; 14 Table of Contents • flows of capital into or out of real estate investment in the United States or various regions of the United States; • rates of unemployment; • interest rates; • the availability and cost of capital; • wage and salary levels; or • concerns about any of the foregoing. We believe that the commercial real estate industry is composed of many submarkets, each of which is influenced differently, and often in opposite ways, by various economic factors. We believe that commercial real estate submarkets can be differentiated based on factors such as geographic location, value of properties, whether properties are sold or leased, and other factors. Each such submarket may be affected differently by, among other things: • economic slowdown or recession; • changes in levels of rent or appreciation of asset values; • changing interest rates; • tax and accounting policies; • the availability and cost of capital; • costs of construction; • increased unemployment; • lower consumer confidence; • lower wage and salary levels; • war, terrorist attacks or natural disasters; or • the public perception that any of these conditions may occur. For example, as of December 31, 2009, approximately 26% of our premium members were based in California and approximately 11% were based in Florida. Negative conditions in these or other significant commercial real estate submarkets could disproportionately affect our business as compared to competitors who have less or different geographic concentrations of their customers. Events such as a war or a significant terrorist attack are also likely to affect the general economy, and could cause a slowdown in the commercial real estate industry and therefore reduce utilization of our marketplace, which could reduce our revenue from premium members. The occurrence of any of the events listed above could increase our need to make significant expenditures to continue to attract customers to our marketplace. Our business is largely based on a subscription model, and accordingly, any failure to increase the number of our customers or retain existing customers could cause our revenues to decline. Our customers include premium members of our LoopNet marketplace, LoopLink users, users of our BizBuySell, BizQuest, Cityfeet and LandAndFarm marketplaces, RecentSales subscribers, REApplications users and advertising and lead generation customers. Most of our revenues are generated by subscription fees paid by our premium members. Our growth depends in large part on increasing the number of our free basic members and then converting them into paying premium members, as well as retaining existing premium members. Either category of members may decide not to continue to use our services in favor of alternate services or because of budgetary constraints or other reasons. Since the fourth quarter of 2007, our average monthly cancellation rate for premium members has exceeded our historical rate of three to five percent. We believe the higher cancellation rate is primarily the result of a significant slow-down in transaction activity in the commercial real estate industry that 15 Table of Contents began in the fourth quarter of 2007, due to deteriorating economic conditions and due to the “credit crunch” impacting the availability and cost of debt capital for real estate transactions. If our existing members choose not to use our services, decrease their use of our services, or change from being premium members to basic members, or we are unable to attract new members, listings on our site could be reduced, search activity on our website could decline, the usefulness of our services could be diminished, and we could incur significant expenses and/or experience declining revenues. The value of our marketplace to our customers is dependent on increasing the number of property listings provided by and searches conducted by our members. To grow our marketplace, we must convince prospective members to use our services. Prospective members may not be familiar with our services and may be accustomed to using traditional methods of listing, searching, marketing and advertising commercial real estate. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in continuing to acquire more members, in continuing to convert free basic members into paying premium members or that our future sales efforts in general will be effective. Further, it is difficult to estimate the total number of active commercial real estate agents, property owners, landlords, buyers and tenants in the United States during any given period. As a result, we do not know the extent to which we have penetrated this market. If we reach the point at which we have attempted to sell our services to a significant majority of commercial real estate transaction participants in the United States, we will need to seek additional products and markets in order to maintain our rate of growth of revenues and profitability. We rely on our marketing efforts to generate new registered members. If our marketing efforts are ineffective, we could fail to attract new registered members, which could reduce the attractiveness of our marketplace to current and potential customers and lead to a reduction in our revenues. We believe that the attractiveness of our services and products to our current and potential customers increases as we attract additional members who provide additional property listings or conduct searches on our marketplace. This is because an increase in the number of our members and the number of listings on our website increases the utility of our website and of its associated search, listing and marketing services. In order to attract new registered members, we rely on our marketing efforts, such as word-of-mouth referrals, direct marketing, online and traditional advertising, sponsoring and attending local industry association events, and attending and exhibiting at industry trade shows and conferences. There is no guarantee that our marketing efforts will be effective. If we are unable to effectively market our products and services to new customers, or convert existing basic members into premium members, and we are not able to offset any decline in our rate of conversion of basic members to premium members with higher average subscription prices, our revenues and operating results could decline as a result of current premium members failing to renew their premium memberships and potential premium members failing to become premium members. If we are unable to obtain or retain listings from commercial real estate brokers, agents, and property owners, our marketplace could be less attractive to current or potential customers, which could result in a reduction in our revenues. Our success depends substantially on the number of commercial real estate property listings submitted by brokers, agents and property owners to our online marketplace. The number of listings on our marketplace has grown from approximately 560,000 as of December 31, 2007, to approximately 652,000 as of December 31, 2008, to approximately 732,000 as of December 31, 2009. If agents marketing large numbers of property listings, such as large brokers in key real estate markets, choose not to continue their listings with us, or choose to list them with a competitor, our website would be less attractive to other real estate industry transaction participants, thus resulting in cancelled premium memberships, failure to attract and retain new members, or failure to attract advertising and lead generation revenues. We may be unable to compete successfully with our current or future competitors. The market to provide listing, searching and marketing services to the commercial real estate industry is highly competitive and fragmented, with limited barriers to entry. Our current or new competitors may adopt certain aspects of our business model, which could reduce our ability to differentiate our services. All of the services which 16 Table of Contents we provide to our customers, including property and business listing, searching, and marketing services, are provided separately or in combination to our current or potential customers by other companies that compete with us. These companies, or new market entrants, will continue to compete with us. Listings in the commercial real estate industry are not marketed exclusively through any single channel, and accordingly our competition could aggregate a set of listings similar to ours. Increased competition could result in a reduction in our revenues or our rate of acquisition of new customers, or loss of existing customers or market share, any of which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We compete with CoStar Group, Inc., a provider of information, research and marketing services to the commercial real estate market. Some of the services that CoStar offers directly compete with our product offering. For example, CoStar provides commercial real estate for sale and for lease property listings which compete directly with our online commercial real estate marketplace. CoStar also recently introduced a marketing service which competes directly with our marketing services geared toward the general public. Several companies, such as Property Line International, Inc., have created online property listing services that compete with us. These companies aggregate property listings obtained through various sources, including from commercial real estate agents. In addition, newspapers typically include on their websites listings of commercial real estate for sale and for lease. If our current or potential customers choose to use these services rather than ours, demand for our services could decline. Additionally, the National Association of REALTORS®, or NAR, its local boards of REALTORS®, its various affiliates, and other third parties have in the past created, and they or others may in the future create, commercial real estate information and listing services. These services could provide commercial real estate for sale and for lease property listings which compete directly with our online commercial real estate marketplace. If they succeed in attracting a significant number of commercial real estate transaction participants, demand for our services may decrease. Large Internet companies that have large user bases and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do, such as eBay Inc. and craigslist, Inc., provide commercial real estate listing or advertising services in addition to a wide variety of other products or services. eBay and craigslist operate real estate listing services which include commercial real estate and operating businesses. Other large Internet companies, such as Google, Yahoo! and Microsoft, have classified listing services which could be used to market and search for commercial real estate property listings. Competition by these companies could reduce demand for our services or require us to make additional expenditures, either of which could reduce our profitability. Our current focus on internal and external investments for long term growth may result in flat revenue growth rates and place downward pressure on our operating margin in the near future. We plan to increase the rate of investments in our business, including internal investments in product development, data aggregation, sales and marketing, and external investments through potential acquisitions. This investment strategy is intended to accelerate our revenue growth and market share gains in the future as activity in the commercial real estate industry shows signs of stabilizing and begins to recover. While we believe this strategy will enable us to capitalize on opportunities we see in our industry and extend our leadership position, we expect our operating margins to experience a downward pressure and our revenue growth rate to be flat in the short term as a result of our planned investments and economic environment. Furthermore, if the industry fails to stabilize or deterioriates furthering 2010, such investments may not have their intended effect. If we unable to successfully execute our investment strategy or fail to adequately anticipate potential problems, we may experience further decreases in our revenues and operating margins. If we are not able to successfully identify or integrate acquisitions, our management’s attention could be diverted, and efforts to integrate acquisitions could consume significant resources. We have made acquisitions of, and investments in, other companies, and we may in the future further expand our markets and services in part through additional acquisitions of, or investments in, other complementary businesses, services, databases and technologies. For example, in October, 2004, we acquired BizBuySell, an online marketplace for operating businesses for sale, in August, 2007, we acquired Cityfeet.com Inc., in April, 2008, we 17 Table of Contents acquired REApplications, Inc., in July, 2008, we acquired LandAndFarm.com, and in January 2010, we acquired BizQuest. Mergers and acquisitions are inherently risky, and we cannot assure you that our acquisitions will be successful. The successful execution of any acquisition strategy will depend on our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate such acquisitions and, if necessary, obtain satisfactory debt or equity financing to fund those acquisitions. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquired businesses could harm our business. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: • difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, and products of the acquired companies; • diversion of management’s attention from the normal daily operations of our business; • inability to maintain the key business relationships and the reputations of acquired businesses; • entry into markets in which we have limited or no prior experience and in which competitors have stronger market positions; • dependence on unfamiliar affiliates and partners; • insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; • reduction or replacement of the sales of existing services by sales of products or services from acquired lines of business; • responsibility for the liabilities of acquired businesses; • inability to maintain our internal standards, controls, procedures and policies; and • potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies. We may also incur costs, and divert our management’s attention from our business, by pursuing potential acquisitions or other investments which are never consummated. Although we undertake a due diligence investigation of each business that we acquire, there may be liabilities of the acquired companies that we fail to or are unable to discover during the due diligence investigation and for which we, as a successor owner, may be responsible. In connection with acquisitions, we generally seek to minimize the impact of these types of potential liabilities through indemnities and warranties from the seller, which may in some instances be supported by deferring payment of a portion of the purchase price. However, these indemnities and warranties, if obtained, may not fully cover the liabilities due to limitations in scope, amount or duration, financial limitations of the indemnitor or warrantor or other reasons. In addition, if we finance or otherwise complete acquisitions or other investments by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted. Our operating results and revenues are subject to fluctuations that may cause our stock price to decline, and our quarterly financial results may be subject to seasonality, each of which could cause our stock price to decline. Our revenues, expenses and operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to do so in the future. Our revenues, expenses and operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to factors including those described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K: • rates of member adoption and retention; • changes in our pricing strategy and timing of changes; • changes in our marketing or other corporate strategies; • our introduction of new products and services or changes to existing products and services; • the amount and timing of our operating expenses and capital expenditures; • the amount and timing of non-cash stock-based charges; 18 Table of Contents • the amount and timing of litigation related expenses; • costs related to acquisitions of businesses or technologies; and • other factors outside of our control. Our results of operations could vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to the seasonal nature of the commercial real estate industry. The timing of widely observed holidays and vacation periods, particularly slow downs during the end-of-year holiday period, and availability of real estate agents and related service providers during these periods, could significantly affect our quarterly operating results during that period. For example, we have historically experienced a significant decline in the rate of growth of both new memberships and revenues during the fourth quarter. These fluctuations or seasonality effects could negatively affect our results of operations during the period in question and/or future periods or cause our stock price to decline. If we are unable to introduce new or upgraded services or products that our customers recognize as valuable, we may fail to attract new customers or retain existing customers. Our efforts to develop new and upgraded products and services could require us to incur significant costs. To continue to attract new members to our online marketplace, we may need to continue to introduce new products or services. We may choose to develop new products and services independently or choose to license or otherwise integrate content and data from third parties. Developing and delivering these new or upgraded services or products may impose costs and require the attention of our product and technology department and management. This process is costly, and we may experience difficulties in developing and delivering these new or upgraded services or products. In addition, successfully launching and selling a new service or product will require the use of our sales and marketing resources. Efforts to enhance and improve the ease of use, responsiveness, functionality and features of our existing products and services have inherent risks, and we may not be able to manage these product developments and enhancements successfully. If we are unable to continue to develop new or upgraded services or products, then our customers may choose not to use our products or services. If we are unable to enforce or defend our ownership and use of intellectual property, our business, competitive position and operating results could be harmed. The success of our business depends in large part on our intellectual property, and our intellectual property rights, including existing and future trademarks, trade secrets, and copyrights, are and will continue to be valuable and important assets of our business. Our business could be significantly harmed if we are not able to protect the content of our databases and our other intellectual property. We have taken measures to protect our intellectual property, such as requiring our employees and consultants with access to our proprietary information to execute confidentiality agreements. We also have taken action, and in the future may take additional action, against competitors or other parties who we believe to be infringing our intellectual property. For example, on November 15, 2007 the Company filed a lawsuit against CoStar Group, Inc. and CoStar Realty Information, Inc. in the Superior Court for the State of California, County of Los Angeles, asserting claims for breach of contract and unfair business practices arising out of CoStar’s alleged unlawful use of data from the Company’s Web site for competitive purposes. All current litigation with CoStar was settled in December 2009, although the Company incurred significant legal costs to protect its intellectual property. We may in the future find it necessary to assert claims regarding our intellectual property. These measures may not be sufficient or effective to protect our intellectual property. These measures could also be expensive and could significantly divert our management’s attention from other business concerns. We also rely on laws, including those regarding patents, copyrights, and trade secrets, to protect our intellectual property rights. Current laws may not adequately protect our intellectual property or our databases and the data contained in them. In addition, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of proprietary rights in Internet-related businesses are uncertain and evolving, and we cannot assure you of the future viability or value of any of our proprietary rights. 19 Table of Contents Others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology. Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could require us to develop alternative intellectual property, incur licensing or other expenses, or limit our product and service offerings. We could face liability for information on our website or general litigation claims. We provide information on our website, including commercial real estate listings, that is submitted by our customers and third parties. We also allow third parties to advertise their products and services on our website and include links to third-party websites. We could be exposed to liability with respect to this information. Customers could assert that information concerning them on our website contains errors or omissions and third parties could seek damages for losses incurred if they rely upon incorrect information provided by our customers or advertisers. We could also be subject to claims that the persons posting information on our website do not have the right to post such information or are infringing the rights of third parties. For example, in 1999, CoStar sued us, claiming that we had directly and indirectly infringed their copyrights in photographs by permitting our members to post those photographs on our website. Although the court issued rulings that were favorable to us in that litigation, other persons might assert similar or other claims in the future. In June 2009, CoStar filed a complaint against us alleging that we have infringed their copyrights and trademarks because photographs bearing CoStar’s logo that were posted by third parties allegedly appeared in our RecentSales product. All current litigation with CoStar was settled in December 2009. Among other things, we might be subject to claims that by directly or indirectly providing links to websites operated by third parties, we would be liable for wrongful actions by the third parties operating those websites. Even if these claims do not result in liability to us, we could incur significant costs in investigating and defending against these claims. The Digital Millennium Copyright Act, or DMCA, allows copyright owners to obtain subpoenas compelling disclosure by an Internet service provider of the names of customers of that Internet service provider. We have been served with such subpoenas in the past, and may in the future be served with additional such subpoenas. Compliance with subpoenas under the DMCA may divert our resources, including the attention of our management, which could impede our ability to operate our business. Our potential liability for information on our websites or distributed by us to others could require us to implement additional measures to reduce our exposure to such liability, which may require us to expend substantial resources and limit the attractiveness of our online marketplace to users. Our general liability insurance may not cover all potential claims to which we are exposed and may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. If we are unable to convince commercial real estate brokers and other commercial real estate professionals that our services and products are superior to traditional methods of listing, searching, and marketing commercial real estate, they could choose not to use our marketplace, which could reduce our revenues or increase our expenses. A primary source of new customers for us is the commercial real estate professional community. Many commercial real estate professionals are used to listing, searching and marketing real estate in traditional ways, such as through the distribution of print brochures, sharing of written lists, placing signs on properties, word-of-mouth, and newspaper advertisements. Commercial real estate professionals may prefer to continue to use traditional methods or may be slow to adopt our products and services. If we are not able to continue to persuade commercial real estate professionals of the efficacy of our products and services, they may choose not to use our marketplace, which could reduce our revenues. In addition, we could be required to increase our marketing and other expenditures to continue our efforts to attract these potential customers. 20 Table of Contents Our business depends on retaining and attracting capable management and operating personnel. Our success depends in large part on our ability to retain and attract high-quality management and operating personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors, Richard J. Boyle, Jr.; our President and Chief Operating Officer, Thomas Byrne; our Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration, Brent Stumme; our Chief Strategy Officer and Senior Vice President, Corporate Development, Jason Greenman; and our Chief Technology Officer and Senior Vice President, Information Technology, Wayne Warthen. Our business plan was developed in large part by our senior-level officers, and its implementation requires their skills and knowledge. We may not be able to offset the impact on our business of the loss of the services of Mr. Boyle or other key officers or employees. We have no employment agreements that prevent any of our key personnel from terminating their employment at any time, and we do not maintain any “key-person” life insurance for any of our personnel. Furthermore, our business requires skilled technical, management, product and technology, and sales and marketing personnel, who are in high demand and are often subject to competing offers. Competition for qualified employees is intense in our industry, and the loss of a substantial number of qualified employees, or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly skilled employees required for the expansion of our activities, could harm our business. To retain and attract key personnel, we use various measures, including an equity incentive program and incentive bonuses for key executive officers and other employees. We have also entered into change of control severance agreements with our key executive officers, which provide, in part, certain severance benefits and acceleration of unvested equity awards if their employment is terminated in connection with a change of control of the Company. These measures may not be enough to attract and retain the personnel we require to execute our business plan. If we fail to protect confidential information against security breaches, or if our members or potential members are reluctant to use our marketplace because of privacy concerns, we might face additional costs, and activity in our marketplace could decline. As part of our membership registration process, we collect, use and disclose personally identifiable information, including names, addresses, phone numbers, credit card numbers and email addresses. Our policies concerning the collection, use and disclosure of personally identifiable information are described on our websites. While we believe that our policies are appropriate and that we are in compliance with our policies, we could be subject to legal claims, government action or harm to our reputation if actual practices fail to comply or are seen as failing to comply with our policies or with local, state or federal laws concerning personally identifiable information or if our policies are inadequate to protect the personally identifiable information that we collect. Concern among prospective customers regarding our use of the personal information collected on our websites could keep prospective customers from using our marketplace. Industry-wide incidents or incidents with respect to our websites, including misappropriation of third-party information, security breaches, or changes in industry standards, regulations or laws could deter people from using the Internet or our website to conduct transactions that involve the transmission of confidential information, which could harm our business. Last year, our subsidiary, Cityfeet.com, was informed that there may have been a security breach to its credit card database and that some personally identifiable information of individuals contained in that database may have been misappropriated. Under California law and the laws of a number of other states, if there is a breach of our computer systems and we know or suspect that unencrypted personal customer data has been stolen, we are required to inform any customers whose data was stolen, which could harm our reputation and business. In addition, another California law requires businesses that maintain personal information about California residents in electronic databases to implement reasonable measures to keep that information secure. Our practice is to encrypt all personal information, but we do not know whether our current practice will continue to be deemed sufficient under the California law. Other states have enacted different and sometimes contradictory requirements for protecting personal information collected and maintained electronically. Compliance with numerous and contradictory requirements of the different states is particularly difficult for an online business such as ours which collects personal information from customers in multiple jurisdictions. 21 Table of Contents Another consequence of failure to comply is the possibility of adverse publicity and loss of consumer confidence were it known that we did not take adequate measures to assure the confidentiality of the personally identifiable information that our customers had given to us. This could result in a loss of customers and revenue that could jeopardize our success. While we intend to comply fully with all relevant laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in avoiding all potential liability or disruption of business in the event that we do not comply in every instance or in the event that the security of the customer data that we collect is compromised, regardless of whether our practices comply or not. If we were required to pay any significant amount of money in satisfaction of claims under these laws or if we were forced to cease our business operations for any length of time as a result of our inability to comply fully with any such laws, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Further, complying with the applicable notice requirements in the event of a security breach could result in significant costs. Our services may infringe the intellectual property rights of others and we may be subject to claims of intellectual property rights infringement. We may be subject to claims against us alleging infringement of the intellectual property rights of others, including our competitors. Any intellectual property claims, regardless of merit, could be expensive to litigate or settle and could significantly divert our management’s attention from other business concerns. For example, on or about April 8, 2008, Real Estate Alliance Ltd. filed a lawsuit against the Company and its subsidiary, Cityfeet.com Inc., in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California, Western Division, alleging that the Company and Cityfeet.com Inc. have infringed upon certain patents of Real Estate Alliance Ltd. Our technologies and content may not be able to withstand third-party claims of infringement. If we were unable to successfully defend against such claims, we might have to pay damages, stop using the technology or content found to be in violation of a third party’s rights, seek a license for the infringing technology or content, or develop alternative noninfringing technology or content. Licenses for the infringing technology or content may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, developing alternative noninfringing technology or content could require significant effort and expense. If we cannot license or develop technology or content for any infringing aspects of our business, we may be forced to limit our service offerings. Any of these results could reduce our ability to compete effectively and harm our business. Our trademarks are important to our business. Other companies may own, obtain or claim trademarks that could prevent, limit or interfere with our use of trademarks. If we were unable to use our trademarks, we would need to devote substantial resources toward developing different brand identities. Unless we develop, maintain and protect our brand identity, our business may not grow and our financial results may suffer. In an effort to obtain additional registered members and increase use of our online marketplace by commercial real estate transaction participants, we intend to continue to pursue a strategy of enhancing our brand both through online advertising and through traditional print media. These efforts can involve significant expense and may not have a material positive impact on our brand identity. In addition, maintaining our brand will depend on our ability to provide products and services that are perceived as being high-value, which we may not be able to implement successfully. If we are unable to maintain and enhance our brand, our ability to attract and retain customers or successfully expand our operations will be harmed. Changes in or interpretations of accounting rules and regulations, such as expensing of stock options, could result in unfavorable accounting charges or require us to change our compensation policies. Since 2006, we have applied the authoritative guidance on stock-based compensation accounting. The guidance requires that share-based payment transactions with employees be recognized in the financial statements based on their value and recognized as compensation expense over the vesting period. As a result of this guidance, we may choose to reduce our reliance on stock options as a compensation tool. If we reduce our use of stock options and do not adopt other forms of compensation, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified employees. If we do not reduce our reliance on stock options, our operating expenses would increase. We currently 22 Table of Contents rely on stock options to retain existing employees and attract new employees. Although we believe that our accounting practices are consistent with current accounting pronouncements, changes to or interpretations of accounting methods or policies in the future may require us to adversely revise how our consolidated financial statements are prepared. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of investors or equity research analysts, our market price may decline and we may be subject to class action litigation. It is possible that in the future our operating results will not meet the expectations of investors or equity research analysts, causing the market price of our common stock to decline. In the past, companies that have experienced decreases in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. A securities class action lawsuit against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns. If our website or our other services experience system failures, our customers may be dissatisfied and our operations could be impaired. Our business depends upon the satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our website. Problems with our website could result in reduced demand for our services. Furthermore, the software underlying our services is complex and may contain undetected errors. Despite testing, we cannot be certain that errors will not be found in our software. Any errors could result in adverse publicity, impaired use of our services, loss of revenues, cost increases or legal claims by customers. Additionally, our services substantially depend on systems provided by third parties, over whom we have little control. Interruptions in our services could result from the failure of data providers, telecommunications providers, or other third parties. We depend on these third-party providers of Internet communication services to provide continuous and uninterrupted service. We also depend on Internet service providers that provide access to our services. Any disruption in the Internet access provided by third-party providers or any failure of third-party providers to handle higher volumes of user traffic could harm our business. Our internal network infrastructure could be disrupted or penetrated, which could materially impact our ability to provide our services and our customers’ confidence in our services. Our operations depend upon our ability to maintain and protect our computer systems, most of which are located in redundant and independent systems in Los Angeles, California and San Francisco, California. In addition, we utilize data centers in Virginia, Texas and New York for specific services. While we believe that our systems are adequate to support our operations, our systems may be vulnerable to damage from break-ins, unauthorized access, vandalism, fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. Although we maintain insurance against fires, floods, and general business interruptions, the amount of coverage may not be adequate in any particular case. Furthermore, any damage or disruption could materially impair or prohibit our ability to provide our services, which could significantly impact our business. Experienced computer programmers, or hackers, may attempt to penetrate our network security from time to time. For example, last year, our subsidiary, Cityfeet.com, was informed that there may have been a security breach to its credit card database, and that some personally identifiable information of individuals contained in that database may have been misappropriated. The potential breach has not affected any personally identifiable information with respect to LoopNet members, which information is maintained on separate servers. Although we maintain a firewall, and will continue to enhance and review our databases to prevent unauthorized and unlawful intrusions, a hacker who penetrates our network security could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our services. We might be required to expend significant capital and resources to protect against, or to alleviate, problems caused by hackers. We also may not have a timely remedy against a hacker who is able to penetrate our network security. In addition to purposeful security breaches, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose us to litigation or to a material risk of loss. Any of these incidents could materially impact our ability to provide our services as well as materially impact the confidence of our customers in our services, either of which could significantly impact our business. 23 Table of Contents We may be subject to regulation of our advertising and customer solicitation or other newly-adopted laws and regulations. As part of our membership registration process, our customers agree to receive emails and other communications from us. However, we may be subject to restrictions on our ability to communicate with our customers through email and phone calls. Several jurisdictions have proposed or adopted privacy-related laws that restrict or prohibit unsolicited email or “spam.” These laws may impose significant monetary penalties for violations. For example, the CAN-SPAM Act of 2003, or CAN-SPAM, imposes complex and often burdensome requirements in connection with sending commercial email. Key provisions of CAN-SPAM have yet to be interpreted by the courts. Depending on how it is interpreted, CAN-SPAM may impose burdens on our email marketing practices or services we offer or may offer. Although CAN-SPAM is thought to have pre-empted state laws governing unsolicited email, the effectiveness of that preemption is likely to be tested in court challenges. If any of those challenges are successful, our business may also be subject to state laws and regulations that may further restrict our email marketing practices and the services we may offer. The scope of those regulations is unpredictable. Compliance with laws and regulations of different jurisdictions imposing different standards and requirements is very burdensome for an online business. Our business, like most online businesses, offers products and services to customers in multiple state jurisdictions. Our business efficiencies and economies of scale depend on generally uniform service offerings and uniform treatment of customers. Compliance requirements that vary significantly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction impose an added cost to our business and increased liability for compliance deficiencies. In addition, laws or regulations that could harm our business could be adopted, or reinterpreted so as to affect our activities, by the government of the United States, state governments, regulatory agencies or by foreign governments or agencies. This could include, for example, laws regulating the source, content or form of information or listings provided on our websites, the information or services we provide or our transmissions over the Internet. Violations or new interpretations of these laws or regulations may result in penalties or damage our reputation or could increase our costs or make our services less attractive. An important aspect of the new Internet-focused laws is that where federal legislation is absent, states have begun to enact consumer-protective laws of their own and these vary significantly from state to state. Thus, it is difficult for any company to be sufficiently aware of the requirements of all applicable state laws, and it is further difficult or impossible for any company to fully comply with their inconsistent standards and requirements. In addition to the consequences that could result from violating one or another state’s laws, the cost of attempting to comply will be considerable. Also, as our business grows to be world-wide, we will be required to comply with the laws of foreign countries, and the costs of that compliance effort will be considerable. Our stock price may be volatile and you may be unable to sell your shares at or above the purchase price. The market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to, among other things, the risk factors described in this section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and other factors beyond our control, such as fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us. Furthermore, the stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, many companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. 24 Table of Contents Our principal stockholders, executive officers and directors own a significant percentage of our stock, and as a result, the trading price for our shares may be depressed and these stockholders can take actions that may be adverse to your interests. Our executive officers and directors and entities affiliated with them, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 35% of our outstanding shares of common stock. This significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. These stockholders, acting together, may have the ability to exert control over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors and any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these stockholders who are executive officers or directors, or who have representatives on our Board of Directors, could dictate the management of our business and affairs. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination that could be favorable to our other stockholders. Our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent a takeover that stockholders consider favorable and could also reduce the market price of our stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. These provisions could also make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions include: • providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; • not providing for cumulative voting in the election of directors or imposing a majority voting standard; • authorizing the board to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock rights senior to those of common stock; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; and • requiring advance notification of stockholder nominations and proposals. In addition, the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Laws govern us. While we have waived the application of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Laws with respect to the investors who acquired shares of our Series A convertible preferred stock in the April 2009 private placement, these provisions may otherwise prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us for a certain period of time. These and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts, reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and result in the market price being lower than it would be without these provisions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 