Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. Although the risk factors below are the ones management deems significant, additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presumably deem less significant also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to our Pending Merger with CoStar Completion of the Merger is subject to various conditions, including the expiration or termination of the waiting period imposed by the Hart-Scott Rodino Antitrust Improvement Act of 1976, as amended. Completion of the Merger remains subject to the expiration or termination of the waiting period imposed by the HSR Act, and satisfaction or waiver of the other closing conditions specified in the Merger Agreement. Both we and CoStar filed notification and report forms with the Department of Justice and the FTC pursuant to the HSR Act on May 31, 2011. As previously announced, on June 30, 2011, we and CoStar each received a request for additional information (commonly referred to as a “second request”) from the FTC with respect to the proposed Merger. As previously announced, on October 26, 2011, at the request of the FTC, we and CoStar agreed to extend the waiting period imposed by the HSR Act from 30 to 60 days after the date of substantial compliance with the second request, which was certified by us and CoStar on November 4, 2011. As previously disclosed on January 3, 2012, we and CoStar voluntarily agreed to extend the waiting period imposed by the HSR Act on a 45-day rolling basis to allow us to continue to engage in discussions with the FTC to determine whether there is a possible basis for, and to discuss the possible terms of, a mutually acceptable consent order that would allow the Merger to close. If either we and CoStar, on the one hand, or the FTC Staff, on the other hand, believes that discussions towards a possible consent order are no longer moving forward productively, either may trigger commencement of the 45-day period, in writing, after the expiration of which the waiting period imposed by the HSR Act will expire, unless extended voluntarily by the parties or terminated sooner by the FTC. In addition, we and CoStar have agreed to extend the 15 Table of Contents date after which either we or Costar may individually elect to terminate the Merger Agreement to April 30, 2012. As of the date hereof, we and CoStar have not yet reached agreement with the FTC on the terms of a consent order, and there can be no assurance that such agreement will be reached in a timely manner or at all. Each party’s obligation to consummate the Merger is also subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the other party (subject to certain qualifications and exceptions) and the performance in all material respects of the other party’s covenants under the Merger Agreement, including, with respect to us, customary covenants regarding operation of our business prior to closing. As a result of these conditions, we cannot assure you that the Merger will be completed, or that, if completed, it will be exactly on the terms set forth in the Merger Agreement. For example, the FTC may require divestitures or changes relating to the operations or assets of us and CoStar to obtain clearance or approval under the HSR Act. If the Merger is not completed for any reason, we expect that we would continue to be managed by our current management, under the direction of our board of directors. The pendency of our agreement to be acquired by CoStar and the failure to complete the Merger with CoStar could adversely affect our business. Our proposed Merger with CoStar was announced on April 27, 2011 and remains pending at this time, subject to regulatory review and approval of the transaction. This ongoing review and the possibility that the Merger may not be completed could cause disruptions in our business. If the proposed Merger is not completed, our stock price will likely fall as the current market price of our common stock reflects an assumption that a transaction will be completed. In addition, under circumstances described in the Merger Agreement, we may be required to pay a termination fee of up to $25.8 million if the Merger Agreement is terminated. Further, the failure of the proposed Merger to be completed may result in negative publicity and/or a negative impression of us in the investment community and may affect our relationship with our employees, customers and other partners in the business community. The Merger process could adversely affect our business, stock price, reputation and results of operations. Our efforts to complete the Merger could cause substantial disruptions in our business, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. Among other things, uncertainty as to whether a transaction will be completed with CoStar may affect our ability to recruit prospective employees or to retain and motivate existing employees. Employee retention may be particularly challenging while the Merger is pending, because employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with CoStar. Uncertainty as to our future could adversely affect our business, reputation and our relationship with customers and potential customers. For example, customers and others that deal with us could defer decisions concerning working with us, or seek to change existing business relationships with us. Further, a substantial amount of the attention of management and employees is being directed toward the completion of the Merger and thus is being diverted from our day-to-day operations because matters related to the Merger (including integration planning) require substantial commitments of time and resources. While the Merger Agreement is in effect, we are subject to restrictions on our business activities. While the Merger Agreement is in effect, we are subject to restrictions on our business activities and must generally operate our business in the ordinary course consistent with past practice (subject to certain exceptions). These restrictions prevented us from exploring and pursing attractive business opportunities and acquiring businesses and products and continue to do so. This could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations or financial condition should the Merger not be completed. In certain instances, the Merger Agreement requires us to pay a termination fee of $25.8 million to CoStar, a payment which could affect the decisions of a third party considering making an alternative acquisition proposal. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, we may be required to pay to CoStar a termination fee of $25.8 million if the Merger Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances. This payment could affect the structure, pricing and terms proposed by a third party seeking to acquire or merge with us and could deter such third party from making a competing acquisition proposal. 16 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business The ongoing uncertainty in the commercial real estate market and overall economy could negatively affect our revenues, expenses and operating results. Our business is sensitive to trends in the general economy and trends in commercial real estate markets, which are unpredictable and continue to be volatile and subject to uncertainty. Although we are currently seeing signs of stabilization after a prolonged downturn, the depressed debt markets continue to affect the investment sales market and have been contributing to a slow down in our industry, which we anticipate will continue through 2011. These negative general economic conditions could further reduce the overall amount of sale and leasing activity in the commercial real estate industry, and hence the demand for our services. Conditions such as continued tightening in credit markets, reduced industry-wide transaction volumes and negative trends in consumer confidence in global and domestic markets could also further dampen the general economy, and our business. While we believe the increase in the number of distressed sales and resulting decrease in asset prices will eventually translate to greater market activity, the current overall reduction in sales transaction volume continues to negatively impact our business. Therefore, our operating results, to the extent they reflect changes in the broader commercial real estate industry, may be subject to significant fluctuations. Factors that are affecting and could further affect the commercial real estate industry include: • periods of economic slowdown or recession globally, in the United States or locally; • inflation; • flows of capital into or out of real estate investment in the United States or various regions of the United States; • rates of unemployment; • interest rates; • the availability and cost of capital; • wage and salary levels; or • concerns about any of the foregoing. We believe that the commercial real estate industry is composed of many submarkets, each of which is influenced differently, and often in opposite ways, by various economic factors. We believe that commercial real estate submarkets can be differentiated based on factors such as geographic location, value of properties, whether properties are sold or leased, and other factors. Each such submarket may be affected differently by, among other things: • economic slowdown or recession; • changes in levels of rent or appreciation of asset values; • changing interest rates; • tax and accounting policies; • the availability and cost of capital; • costs of construction; • increased unemployment; • lower consumer confidence; • lower wage and salary levels; • war, terrorist attacks or natural disasters; or • the public perception that any of these conditions may occur. 17 Table of Contents For example, as of December 31, 2011, approximately 24% of our premium members were based in California and approximately 11% were based in Florida. Negative conditions in these or other significant commercial real estate submarkets could disproportionately affect our business as compared to competitors who have less or different geographic concentrations of their customers. Events such as a war or a significant terrorist attack are also likely to affect the general economy, and could cause a slowdown in the commercial real estate industry and therefore reduce utilization of our marketplace, which could reduce our revenue from premium members. The occurrence of any of the events listed above could increase our need to make significant expenditures to continue to attract customers to our marketplace. Our business is largely based on a subscription model, and accordingly, any failure to increase the number of our customers or retain existing customers could cause our revenues to decline. Our customers include premium members of our LoopNet marketplace, LoopLink users, users of our BizBuySell, BizQuest, Cityfeet, LandsofAmerica and LandAndFarm marketplaces, Property Comps and Property Facts subscribers, REApplications users and advertising and lead generation customers. The majority of our current revenues are generated by subscription fees paid by our premium members. Our growth depends in large part on increasing the number of our free basic members and then converting them into paying premium members, as well as retaining existing premium members. Either category of members may decide not to continue to use our services in favor of alternate services or because of budgetary constraints or other reasons. Since the fourth quarter of 2007, our average monthly cancellation rate for premium members has exceeded our historical rate of three to five percent, although the cancellation rate in the past couple of years, including 2011, has been within our expected range of 4.5% to 6.5%. We believe the higher cancellation rate is primarily the result of a significant slow-down in transaction activity in the commercial real estate industry that began in the fourth quarter of 2007, due to deteriorating economic conditions and due to the “credit crunch” impacting the availability and cost of debt capital for real estate transactions. If our existing members choose not to use our services, decrease their use of our services, or change from being premium members to basic members, or we are unable to attract new members, listings on our site could be reduced, search activity on our website could decline, the usefulness of our services could be diminished, and we could incur significant expenses and/or experience declining revenues. The value of our marketplaces to our customers is dependent on increasing the number of property listings provided by and searches conducted by our members. To grow our marketplaces, we must convince prospective members to use our services. Prospective members may not be familiar with our services and may be accustomed to using traditional methods of listing, searching, marketing and advertising commercial real estate. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in continuing to acquire more members, in continuing to convert free basic members into paying premium members or that our future sales efforts in general will be effective. Further, it is difficult to estimate the total number of active commercial real estate agents, property owners, landlords, buyers and tenants in the United States during any given period. As a result, we do not know the extent to which we have penetrated this market. If we reach the point at which we have attempted to sell our services to a significant majority of commercial real estate transaction participants in the United States, we will need to seek additional products and markets in order to maintain our rate of growth of revenues and profitability. We rely on our marketing efforts to generate new registered members. If our marketing efforts are ineffective, we could fail to attract new registered members, which could reduce the attractiveness of our marketplace to current and potential customers and lead to a reduction in our revenues. We believe that the attractiveness of our services and products to our current and potential customers increases as we attract additional members who provide additional property listings or conduct searches on our marketplace. This is because an increase in the number of our members and the number of listings on our website increases the utility of our website and of its associated search, listing and marketing services. In order to attract new registered members, we rely on our marketing efforts, such as word-of-mouth referrals, direct marketing, online and traditional advertising, sponsoring and attending local industry association events, and attending and exhibiting at industry trade shows and conferences. There is no guarantee that our marketing efforts will be 18 Table of Contents effective. Furthermore, our ability to develop and successfully market our new information products and services may also be important in attracting new registered members. If we are unable to effectively market our existing and new products and services to new customers, or convert existing basic members into premium members, and we are not able to offset any decline in our rate of conversion of basic members to premium members with higher average subscription prices, our revenues and operating results could decline as a result of current premium members failing to renew their premium memberships and potential premium members failing to become premium members. If we are unable to obtain or retain listings from commercial real estate brokers, agents, and property owners, our marketplace could be less attractive to current or potential customers, which could result in a reduction in our revenues. Our success depends substantially on the number of commercial real estate property listings submitted by brokers, agents and property owners to our online marketplace. The number of listings on our marketplace has increased to 820,391 as of December 31, 2011, from 788,330 as of December 31, 2010, and 732,503 as of December 31, 2009. If agents marketing large numbers of property listings, such as large brokers in key real estate markets, choose not to continue their listings with us, or choose to list them with a competitor, our website would be less attractive to other real estate industry transaction participants, thus resulting in cancelled premium memberships, failure to attract and retain new members, or failure to attract advertising and lead generation revenues. We may be unable to compete successfully with our current or future competitors. The market to provide property listing, searching, information services and analytical products, and marketing and transaction services to the commercial real estate industry is highly competitive and fragmented, with limited barriers to entry in certain segments. In the land-for-sale and businesses-for-sale sectors, we similarly compete with a broad array of online marketplaces, as well as local and regional multiple listing services. We face competition from a variety of sources with respect to our different product offerings. We may not be able to compete successfully against our competitors that focus on one type of product or service area with respect to that particular product or service. Additionally, our current or new competitors may adopt aspects of our business model, which could reduce our ability to differentiate our services. Furthermore, listings in the commercial real estate industry are not marketed exclusively through any single channel, and accordingly our competition could aggregate a set of listings similar to ours. If our current or potential customers choose to use these services rather than ours, demand for our services could decline. Increased competition could result in a reduction in our revenues or our rate of acquisition of new customers, or loss of existing customers or market share, any of which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our focus on internal and external investments may result in flat revenue growth rates and place downward pressure on our operating margins. In 2010 and 2011 we increased the rate of investments in our business, including internal investments in product development, data aggregation and information services, sales and marketing, to expand the breadth and depth of services we provide to our customers. In 2010, we also made external investments such as acquisitions and investments in other companies, but were limited by the Merger Agreement from doing so in 2011. For example, as part of our investment in information services, we launched the Property Facts product in 2010 and invested in further improvements in 2011. We also acquired LandsofAmerica in 2010 to further our reach in the land-for-sale category. This investment strategy is intended to accelerate our revenue growth and market share gains in the future as activity in the commercial real estate industry shows signs of stabilizing and begins to recover. While we believe this strategy will enable us to capitalize on opportunities we see in our industry and extend our leadership position, we expect our operating margins to experience a downward pressure and our revenue growth rate to be flat in the short term as a result of our planned investments and economic environment. Furthermore, if the industry fails to stabilize or deteriorates further in 2012 and beyond, such investments may not have their intended effect. For instance, our external investments may lose value and as a result, we may incur impairment charges with respect to such investments, as we did in the fourth quarter of 2011. If we are unable to successfully execute our investment strategy or fail to adequately anticipate potential problems, we may experience further decreases in our revenues and operating margins. 19 Table of Contents If we are unable to introduce new or upgraded services, products or enabling technologies that our customers recognize as valuable, we may fail to attract new customers or retain existing customers. Our efforts to develop new and upgraded products and services could require us to incur significant costs. To continue to attract new members to our online marketplace, we may need to continue to introduce new products or services or develop additional enabling technologies. We may choose to develop new products and services independently or choose to license or otherwise integrate content and data from third parties. Developing and delivering these new or upgraded services or products may impose costs and require the attention of our product and technology department and management. This process is costly, and we may experience difficulties in developing and delivering these new or upgraded services or products. In addition, successfully launching and selling a new service or product will require the use of our sales and marketing resources. Efforts to enhance and improve the ease of use, responsiveness, functionality and features of our existing products and services have inherent risks, and we may not be able to manage these product developments and enhancements successfully. If we are unable to continue to develop new or upgraded services or products or develop additional enabling technologies, then our customers may choose not to use our products or services. If we are not able to successfully identify or integrate acquisitions, our management’s attention could be diverted, and efforts to integrate acquisitions could consume significant resources. We have made acquisitions of, and investments in, other companies in the past, but were limited to some extent by the restrictions in the Merger Agreement from doing so in 2011, which restrictions remain in place. In the event the Merger is not completed, we may in the future further expand our markets and services in part through additional acquisitions of, or investments in, other complementary businesses, services, databases and technologies. For example, since October 2004, we made several acquisitions, including BizBuySell, Cityfeet.com Inc., REApplications, Inc., LandAndFarm.com, BizQuest, ReactionWeb and LandsofAmerica. Mergers and acquisitions are inherently risky, and we cannot assure you that our acquisitions will be successful. The successful execution of any acquisition strategy will depend on our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate such acquisitions and, if necessary, obtain satisfactory debt or equity financing to fund those acquisitions. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquired businesses could harm our business. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: • difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, and products of the acquired companies; • diversion of management’s attention from the normal daily operations of our business; • inability to maintain the key business relationships and the reputations of acquired businesses; • entry into markets in which we have limited or no prior experience and in which competitors have stronger market positions; • dependence on unfamiliar affiliates and partners; • insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; • reduction or replacement of the sales of existing services by sales of products or services from acquired lines of business; • responsibility for the liabilities of acquired businesses; • inability to maintain our internal standards, controls, procedures and policies; and • potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies. We may also incur costs, and divert our management’s attention from our business, by pursuing potential acquisitions or other investments which are never consummated. Although we undertake a due diligence investigation of each business that we acquire, there may be liabilities of the acquired companies that we fail to or are unable to discover during the due diligence investigation and for which we, as a successor owner, may be responsible. In connection with acquisitions, we generally seek to minimize the impact of these types of potential liabilities through indemnities and warranties from the seller, which may in some instances be supported by deferring payment of a portion of the purchase price. However, these indemnities and warranties, if obtained, may not fully cover the liabilities due to limitations in scope, amount or duration, financial limitations of the indemnitor or warrantor or other reasons. 20 Table of Contents The number of our registered members is higher than the number of actual members. The number of registered members in our network is higher than the number of actual members because some members have multiple registrations or others may have registered under fictitious names. Given the challenges inherent in identifying these accounts, we do not have a reliable system to accurately identify the number of actual members, and thus we rely on the number of registered members as one of our key operating metrics and our measure of the size of our marketplace. Furthermore, although the number of our registered members, which includes both basic and premium members, has increased over the last several years, the number of premium members has decreased over the same period. If the number of our actual members does not continue to grow and those members do not convert to premium members, then our business may not grow as fast as we expect, which will harm our operating and financial results. Our operating results and revenues are subject to fluctuations that may cause our stock price to decline, and our quarterly financial results may be subject to seasonality, each of which could cause our stock price to decline. Our revenues, expenses and operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to do so in the future. Our revenues, expenses and operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to factors including those described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K: • rates of member adoption and retention; • changes in our pricing strategy and timing of changes; • changes in our marketing or other corporate strategies; • our introduction of and investments in new products and services or changes to existing products and services; • the amount and timing of our operating expenses and capital expenditures; • the amount and timing of non-cash stock-based charges; • costs related to acquisitions of businesses or technologies or impairment charges associated with such investments and acquisitions; and • other factors outside of our control. Our results of operations could vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to the seasonal nature of the commercial real estate industry. The timing of widely observed holidays and vacation periods, particularly slow downs during the end-of-year holiday period, and availability of real estate agents and related service providers during these periods, could significantly affect our quarterly operating results during that period. For example, we have historically experienced a significant decline in the rate of growth of both new memberships and revenues during the fourth quarter. These fluctuations or seasonality effects could negatively affect our results of operations during the period in question and/or future periods or cause our stock price to decline. If we are unable to enforce or defend our ownership and use of intellectual property, our business, competitive position and operating results could be harmed. The success of our business depends in large part on our intellectual property, and our intellectual property rights, including existing and future trademarks, trade secrets, and copyrights, are and will continue to be valuable and important assets of our business. Our business could be significantly harmed if we are not able to protect the content of our databases and our other intellectual property. We have taken measures to protect our intellectual property, such as requiring our employees and consultants with access to our proprietary information to execute confidentiality agreements. We also have taken action, and in the future may take additional action, against competitors or other parties who we believe to be infringing our intellectual property. We may in the future find it necessary to assert claims regarding our intellectual property. These measures may not be sufficient or effective to protect our intellectual property. These measures could also be expensive and could significantly divert our management’s attention from other business concerns. 21 Table of Contents We also rely on laws, including those regarding patents, copyrights, and trade secrets, to protect our intellectual property rights. Current laws may not adequately protect our intellectual property or our databases and the data contained in them. In addition, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of proprietary rights in Internet-related businesses are uncertain and evolving, and we cannot assure you of the future viability or value of any of our proprietary rights. Others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology. Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could require us to develop alternative intellectual property, incur licensing or other expenses, or limit our product and service offerings. Our services may infringe the intellectual property rights of others and we may be subject to claims of intellectual property rights infringement. We may be subject to claims against us alleging infringement of the intellectual property rights of others, including our competitors. Any intellectual property claims, regardless of merit, could be expensive to litigate or settle and could significantly divert our management’s attention from other business concerns. Our technologies and content may not be able to withstand third-party claims of infringement. If we were unable to successfully defend against such claims, we might have to pay damages, stop using the technology or content found to be in violation of a third party’s rights, seek a license for the infringing technology or content, or develop alternative non-infringing technology or content. Licenses for the infringing technology or content may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, developing alternative non-infringing technology or content could require significant effort and expense. If we cannot license or develop technology or content for any infringing aspects of our business, we may be forced to limit our service offerings. Any of these results could reduce our ability to compete effectively and harm our business. See Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information with respect to certain currently pending legal matters. Our trademarks are important to our business. Other companies may own, obtain or claim trademarks that could prevent, limit or interfere with our use of trademarks. If we were unable to use our trademarks, we would need to devote substantial resources toward developing different brand identities. We could face liability for information on our website or general litigation claims. We provide information on our website, including commercial real estate listings and broker listings that are submitted by our customers and third parties. We also allow third parties to advertise their products and services on our website and include links to third-party websites. We could be exposed to liability with respect to this information. Customers could assert that information concerning them on our website is misleading and contains errors or omissions. Third parties could seek damages for losses incurred if they rely upon incorrect information provided by our customers or advertisers. We could also be subject to claims that the persons posting information on our website do not have the right to post such information or are infringing the rights of third parties or do not have the qualifications or licenses they disclose. Among other things, we might be subject to claims that by directly or indirectly providing links to websites operated by third parties, we would be liable for wrongful actions by the third parties operating those websites. Even if these claims do not result in liability to us, we could incur significant costs in investigating and defending against these claims. The Digital Millennium Copyright Act, or DMCA, allows copyright owners to obtain subpoenas compelling disclosure by an Internet service provider of the names of customers of that Internet service provider. We have been served with such subpoenas in the past, and may in the future be served with additional such subpoenas. Compliance with subpoenas under the DMCA may divert our resources, including the attention of our management, which could impede our ability to operate our business. Our potential liability for information on our websites or distributed by us to others could require us to implement additional measures to reduce our exposure to such liability, which may require us to expend substantial resources and limit the attractiveness of our online marketplace to users. Our general liability insurance may not cover all potential claims to which we are exposed and may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. 22 Table of Contents If we are unable to convince commercial real estate brokers and other commercial real estate professionals that our services and products are superior to traditional methods of listing, searching, and marketing commercial real estate, they could choose not to use our marketplace, which could reduce our revenues or increase our expenses. Our primary source of new customers is participants in the commercial real estate community. Many commercial real estate professionals are use to listing, searching and marketing real estate in traditional and off-line ways, such as through the distribution of print brochures, sharing of written lists, placing signs on properties, word-of-mouth, and newspaper advertisements. Commercial real estate and investment professionals may prefer to continue to use traditional methods or may be slow to adopt and accept our online products and services. If we are not able to continue to persuade commercial real estate participants of the efficacy of our online products and services, they may choose not to use our online marketplace, which could negatively impact our business. Our business depends on retaining and attracting capable management and operating personnel. Our success depends in large part on our ability to retain and attract high-quality management and operating personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors, Richard J. Boyle, Jr., our President and Chief Operating Officer, Thomas Byrne, our Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration, Brent Stumme, and our other Senior Vice Presidents. Our current long term business strategy was developed in large part by our senior-level officers that depends in part on their skills and knowledge to implement, and also includes a focus on new growth and investment initiatives that may require additional management expertise to successfully execute our strategy. We may not be able to offset the impact on our business of the loss of the services of Mr. Boyle or other key officers or employees or recruit additional talent. We have no employment agreements that prevent any of our key personnel from terminating their employment at any time, and we do not maintain any “key-person” life insurance for any of our personnel. Furthermore, our business requires skilled technical, management, product and technology, and sales and marketing personnel, who are in high demand and are often subject to competing offers. Competition for qualified employees is intense in our industry, and the loss of a substantial number of qualified employees, or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly skilled employees required for the expansion of our activities, could harm our business. To retain and attract key personnel, we use various measures, including an equity incentive program and incentive bonuses for key executive officers and other employees. We have also entered into change of control severance agreements with our key executive officers, which provide, in part, certain severance benefits and acceleration of unvested equity awards if their employment is terminated in connection with a change of control of the Company. These measures may not be enough to attract and retain the personnel we require to execute our business plan. Additionally, if the Merger is consummated and the Company becomes a wholly-owned subsidiary of CoStar, we cannot assure you that the surviving subsidiary will retain members of our current management and operating personnel in their respective capacities. Certain U.S. and foreign laws could subject us to claims or otherwise harm our business. We are subject to a variety of laws in the U.S. and abroad that may subject us to claims or other remedies. Our failure to comply with applicable laws may subject us to additional liabilities, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Laws and regulations which are particularly relevant to our business address information security, content and the distribution of content, taxation, intellectual property rights, characteristics and quality of products and services, and online advertising and marketing, including email marketing and unsolicited commercial email. Many applicable laws were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet and do not contemplate or address the unique issues of the Internet. The laws that do reference the Internet are being interpreted by the courts, but their applicability and scope remain uncertain. For example, the laws relating to the liability of providers of online services are evolving. Claims have been either threatened or filed against us under both U.S. and foreign laws for 23 Table of Contents defamation, libel, slander, invasion of privacy and other tort claims, unlawful activity, copyright and trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials searched and the advertisements posted by our websites’ users, our products and services, or content generated by our users. Federal and state legislation regulating email communications and Internet advertising, such as privacy-related laws that restrict or prohibit unsolicited email (commonly known as “spam”) may adversely affect our ability to market our services to consumers in a cost-effective manner. Violation of such laws may result in monetary fines or penalties or damage to our reputation. The CAN-SPAM Act of 2003, or CAN-SPAM, imposes complex and often burdensome requirements in connection with sending commercial email. Depending on how the law is interpreted and applied, CAN-SPAM may impose significant costs and burdens on our email marketing practices. Federal, state and local tax authorities may alter tax treatment of companies engaged in Internet commerce. New, revised or existing tax regulations, whether domestic or internationally, may subject us or our affiliates to additional state sales, income and other taxes. We cannot predict the effect of current attempts to impose sales, income or other taxes on commerce over the Internet. New or revised taxes, particularly sales taxes, could negatively affect the attractiveness of advertising and selling products and services over the Internet and increase our costs. These events, if they occur, could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we fail to protect confidential information against security breaches, or if our members or potential members are reluctant to use our marketplace because of privacy concerns, we might face additional costs, and activity in our marketplace could decline. As part of our membership registration process, we collect, use and disclose personally identifiable information, including names, addresses, phone numbers, credit card numbers and email addresses. Our policies concerning the collection, use and disclosure of personally identifiable information are described on our websites. While we believe that our policies are appropriate and that we are in compliance with our policies, we could be subject to legal claims, government action or harm to our reputation if actual practices fail to comply or are seen as failing to comply with our policies or with local, state or federal laws concerning personally identifiable information or if our policies are inadequate to protect the personally identifiable information that we collect. Concern among prospective customers regarding our use of the personal information collected on our websites could keep prospective customers from using our marketplace. Industry-wide incidents or incidents with respect to our websites, including misappropriation of third-party information, security breaches, or changes in industry standards, regulations or laws could deter people from using the Internet or our website to conduct transactions that involve the transmission of confidential information, which could harm our business. Under California law and the laws of a number of other states, if there is a breach of our computer systems and we know or suspect that unencrypted personal customer data has been stolen, we are required to inform any customers whose data was stolen, which could harm our reputation and business. In addition, another California law requires businesses that maintain personal information about California residents in electronic databases to implement reasonable measures to keep that information secure. Our practice is to encrypt all personal information, but we do not know whether our current practice will continue to be deemed sufficient under the California law. Other states have enacted different and sometimes contradictory requirements for protecting personal information collected and maintained electronically. Compliance with numerous and contradictory requirements of the different states is particularly difficult for an online business such as ours which collects personal information from customers in multiple jurisdictions. Another consequence of failure to comply is the possibility of adverse publicity and loss of consumer confidence were it known that we did not take adequate measures to assure the confidentiality of the personally identifiable information that our customers had given to us. This could result in a loss of customers and revenue that could jeopardize our success. While we intend to comply fully with all relevant laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in avoiding all potential liability or disruption of business in the event that we do not comply in every instance or in the event that the security of the customer data that we collect is compromised, regardless of whether our practices comply or not. If we were required to pay any significant 24 Table of Contents amount of money in satisfaction of claims under these laws or if we were forced to cease our business operations for any length of time as a result of our inability to comply fully with any such laws, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Further, complying with the applicable notice requirements in the event of a security breach could result in significant costs. Unless we develop, maintain and protect our brand identity, our business may not grow and our financial results may suffer. In an effort to obtain additional registered members and increase use of our online marketplace by commercial real estate transaction participants, we intend to continue to pursue a strategy of enhancing our brand both through online advertising and through traditional print media. These efforts can involve significant expense and may not have a material positive impact on our brand identity. In addition, maintaining our brand will depend on our ability to provide products and services that are perceived as being high-value, which we may not be able to implement successfully. If we are unable to maintain and enhance our brand, our ability to attract and retain customers or successfully expand our operations will be harmed. Changes in or interpretations of accounting rules and regulations could result in unfavorable accounting charges or adversely affect our reported financial results. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions contemplated before the announcement of the change. In addition, the SEC has announced a multi-year plan that could ultimately lead to the use of International Financial Reporting Standards by United States issuers in their SEC filings. Any such change could have a significant effect on our reported financial results. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of investors or equity research analysts, our market price may decline and we may be subject to class action litigation. It is possible that in the future our operating results will not meet the expectations of investors or equity research analysts, causing the market price of our common stock to decline. In the past, companies that have experienced decreases in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. A securities class action lawsuit against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns. If our website or our other services experience system failures, our customers may be dissatisfied and our operations could be impaired. Our business depends upon the satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our website. Problems with our website could result in reduced demand for our services. Furthermore, the software underlying our services is complex and may contain undetected errors. Despite testing, we cannot be certain that errors will not be found in our software. Any errors could result in adverse publicity, impaired use of our services, loss of revenues, cost increases or legal claims by customers. Additionally, our services substantially depend on systems provided by third parties, over whom we have little control. Interruptions in our services could result from the failure of data providers, telecommunications providers, or other third parties. We depend on these third-party providers of Internet communication services to provide continuous and uninterrupted service. We also depend on Internet service providers that provide access to our services. Any disruption in the Internet access provided by third-party providers or any failure of third-party providers to handle higher volumes of user traffic could harm our business. Our internal network infrastructure could be disrupted or penetrated, which could materially impact our ability to provide our services and our customers’ confidence in our services. Our operations depend upon our ability to maintain and protect our computer systems, most of which are located in redundant and independent systems in Los Angeles, California and San Francisco, California. In addition, we utilize data centers in Virginia, Texas, and Colorado for specific services. While we believe that our 25 Table of Contents systems are adequate to support our operations, our systems may be vulnerable to damage from break-ins, unauthorized access, vandalism, fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. Although we maintain insurance against fires, floods, and general business interruptions, the amount of coverage may not be adequate in any particular case. Furthermore, any damage or disruption could materially impair or prohibit our ability to provide our services, which could significantly impact our business. Experienced computer programmers, or hackers, may attempt to penetrate our network security from time to time. Although we maintain a firewall, and will continue to enhance and review our databases to prevent unauthorized and unlawful intrusions, a hacker who penetrates our network security could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our services. We might be required to expend significant capital and resources to protect against, or to alleviate, problems caused by hackers. We also may not have a timely remedy against a hacker who is able to penetrate our network security. In addition to purposeful security breaches, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose us to litigation or to a material risk of loss. Any of these incidents could materially impact our ability to provide our services as well as materially impact the confidence of our customers in our services, either of which could significantly impact our business. We may not be able to successfully halt the operations of websites that aggregate our data, as well as data from other companies, such as copycat websites that may misappropriate our data. Third parties may misappropriate our data through website scraping, robots or other means and aggregate this data on their websites with data from other companies. In addition, “copycat” websites may misappropriate data on our website and attempt to imitate our brand or the functionality of our website. We may not be able to detect all such websites in a timely manner and, even if we could, technological and legal measures may be insufficient to stop their operations. In some cases, particularly in the case of websites operating outside of the United States, our available remedies may not be adequate to protect us against such websites. Regardless of whether we can successfully enforce our rights against these websites, any measures that we may take could require us to expend significant financial or other resources. Our stock price may be volatile and you may be unable to sell your shares at or above the purchase price. The market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to, among other things, the risk factors described in this section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, whether or not the Merger is completed and other factors beyond our control, such as fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us. Furthermore, the stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, many companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. Our principal stockholders, executive officers and directors own a significant percentage of our stock, and as a result, the trading price for our shares may be depressed and these stockholders can take actions that may be adverse to your interests. Our executive officers and directors and entities affiliated with them, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 31% of our outstanding shares of common stock and since the Merger Agreement was signed have been limited in their ability to sell shares of our common stock without the consent of CoStar pursuant to Voting and Support Agreements entered into in connection with the Merger. This significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. These stockholders, acting together, 26 Table of Contents may have the ability to exert control over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors and any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these stockholders who are executive officers or directors, or who have representatives on our Board of Directors, could dictate the management of our business and affairs. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination that could be favorable to our other stockholders. Our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent a takeover that stockholders consider favorable and could also reduce the market price of our stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. These provisions could also make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions include: • providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; • not providing for cumulative voting in the election of directors or imposing a majority voting standard; • authorizing the board to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock rights senior to those of common stock; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; and • requiring advance notification of stockholder nominations and proposals. In addition, the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Laws govern us. While we have waived the application of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Laws with respect to the investors who acquired shares of our Series A convertible preferred stock in the April 2009 private placement, these provisions may otherwise prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us for a certain period of time. These and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts, reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and result in the market price being lower than it would be without these provisions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 