ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have a limited operating history that can be used to evaluate us, and the likelihood of our success must be considered in light of the problems, expenses, difficulties, complications and delays that we may encounter because we are a small business. As a result, we may not be profitable and we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to develop as we have planned. Our ability to achieve and maintain profitability and positive cash flow will be dependent upon: 1 Ø Management’s ability to maintain the technology skills for our conversion services; Ø The Company’s ability to keep abreast of the changes by the government agencies and law; Ø Our ability to attract customers who require the services we offer; and Ø Our ability to generate revenues through the sale of our services to potential clients who need our services. Based upon current plans, we expect to incur operating losses in future periods because we will be incurring expenses and not generating sufficient revenues to cover our expenses. We cannot be sure that we will be successful in generating revenues in the future. Failure to generate sufficient revenues will cause us to go out of business and any investment in our Company would be lost. Managing a small public company involves a high degree of risk. Few small public companies ever reach market stability and we will be subject to oversight from governing bodies and regulations that will be costly to meet. Our present officers and directors do not have any experience in managing a fully reporting public company so we may be forced to obtain outside consultants to assist with our meeting these requirements. These outside consultants are expensive and can have a direct impact on our ability to be profitable. This will make an investment in our Company a highly speculative and risky investment. While the Company is attempting to disclose all of the potential risks associated with an investment in the Company, there can be no assurance that all of the risks are visible to management. Events occurring in the future may be additional risks to an investment in the Company which are currently unforeseen. We will require financing to achieve our current business strategy and our inability to obtain such financing could prohibit us from executing our business plan and cause us to slow down our expansion of operations. We will need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or sale of equity to achieve our current plan of operations. Such financing may not be available when needed. Even if such financing is available, it may be on terms that are materially adverse to your interests with respect to dilution of book value, dividend preferences, liquidation preferences, or other terms. We will require additional funds estimated at approximately $10,000,000 in order to significantly expand our business as set forth in our plan of operations. These funds may not be available or, if available, will be on commercially reasonable terms satisfactory to us. We may not be able to obtain financing if and when it is needed on terms we deem acceptable. The additional funds would be utilized for the manufacturing of additional PlasmaArcFlow proce ssors, which byproducts would be marketed to the target market end users. If we are unable to obtain financing on reasonable terms, we could be forced to delay or scale back our plans for expansion. In addition, such inability to obtain financing on reasonable terms may delay the execution of our plan to expand our operations. We have a limited operating history that you can use to evaluate us, and the likelihood of our success must be considered in light of the problems, expenses, difficulties, complications and delays that we may encounter because we are a small company. As a result, we may not be profitable and we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to develop as we have planned. We were incorporated in Delaware in December of 2005. We have no significant assets or financial resources. The likelihood of our success must be considered in light of the expenses and difficulties in converting liquid wastes into a clean biogas, recruiting and keeping clients and obtaining financing to meet the needs of our plan of operations. Since we have a limited operating history we may not be profitable and we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to meet our expenses and support our anticipated activities. Failure to comply with government regulations will severely limit our sales opportunities and future revenue Failure to obtain operating permits, or otherwise to comply with federal and state regulatory and environmental requirements, could affect our abilities to market and sell the PlasmaArcFlow system and could substantially reduce the value of your investment and the market price of our common stock. We and our customers may be required to comply with a number of federal, state and local laws and regulations in the areas of safety, health and environmental controls. In as much as we intend to market the PlasmaArcFlow system internationally, we will be required to comply with laws and regulations and, when applicable, obtain permits in those other countries. We can not be certain that required permits and approvals will be obtained; that new environmental regulations will not be enacted or that if they are our customers and we can meet stricter standards of operation or obtain additional operating permits or approvals. 2 Our patented technology is unproven on a large-scale industrial basis and could fail to perform in an industrial production environment. The technologies which we are pursuing for MagneGas production from liquid waste have never been utilized on a large-scale industrial basis. All of the tests which we have conducted to date with respect to our technologies have been performed on limited quantities, and we cannot assure you that the same or similar results could be obtained on a large-scale industrial basis. We have never utilized these MagneGas technologies under the conditions or in the volumes that will be required on a large scale and cannot predict all of the difficulties that may arise. In addition, our technology has never operated at a volume level required to be profitable. As our product is an alternative to Natural Gas, the unstable price of Natural Gas will impact our ability to become profitable and to sell cost competitive f uel. It is possible that the technologies, when used, may require further research, development, design and testing prior to implementation of a larger-scale commercial application. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that these technologies will perform successfully on a large-scale commercial basis or that they will be profitable to us or that our fuel will be cost competitive in the market. Our future success is dependent, in part, on the performance and continued service of Rich Connelly, our President, and Dr. Ruggero Maria Santilli, our CEO. Without their continued service, we may be forced to interrupt or eventually cease our operations. We are presently dependent to a great extent upon the experience, abilities and continued services of Rich Connelly, our President and Dr. Ruggero Maria Santilli, our CEO. We currently only have an employment agreement with Dr. Santilli and do not have an employment agreement with other officers and directors. The loss of either of their services would delay our business operations substantially. The success of our business depends, in part, upon proprietary technologies and information which may be difficult to protect and may be perceived to infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties. We believe that the identification, acquisition and development of proprietary technologies are key drivers of our business. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, maintain the secrecy of our proprietary technology and information, and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. We cannot assure you that the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business, that the patents that provide us with competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties, that we will develop additional proprietary technology that is patentable or that any patents issued to us will provide us with competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties. Further, we cannot assure you that others will not independently develop similar or superi or technologies, duplicate elements of our biomass technology or design around it. In order to successfully commercialize our proprietary technologies, it is possible that we may need to acquire licenses to, or to contest the validity of, issued or pending patents or claims of third parties. We cannot assure you that any license acquired under such patents would be made available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, or that we would prevail in any such contest. In addition, we could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves in suits brought against us for alleged infringement of another party's patents or in defending the validity or enforceability of our patents, or in bringing patent infringement suits against other parties based on our patents. In addition to the protection afforded by patents, we also rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and technology that we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our prospective joint venture partners, employees and consultants. We cannot assure you that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any such breach, or that our trade secrets and proprietary know-how will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by others. We have the potential risk of product liability which may subject us to litigation and related costs Our PlasmaArcFlow system will be utilized in a variety of industrial and other settings, and will be used to handle materials resulting from the user's generation of liquid waste. The equipment will therefore be subject to risks of breakdowns and malfunctions, and it is possible that claims for personal injury and business losses arising out of these breakdowns and malfunctions will be made against us. Our insurance may be insufficient to provide coverage against all claims, and claims may be made against us even if covered by our insurance policy for amounts substantially in excess of applicable policy limits. Such an event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because we are smaller and have fewer financial and other resources than many alternative fuel companies, we may not be able to successfully compete in the very competitive alternative fuel industry. Fuel is a commodity. There is significant competition among existing fuel producers. Our business faces competition from a number of producers that can produce significantly greater volumes of fuel than we can or expect to produce, producers that can produce a wider range of products than we can, and producers that have the financial and other resources that would enable them to expand their production rapidly if they chose to. These producers may be able to achieve substantial economies of scale and scope, thereby substantially reducing their fixed production costs and their marginal productions costs. If these producers are able to substantially reduce their marginal production costs, the market price of fuel may decline and we may be not be able to produce biogas at a cost that allows us to operate profitably. Even if we are ab le to operate profitably, these other producers may be substantially more profitable than us, which may make it more difficult for us to raise any financing necessary for us to achieve our business plan and may have a materially adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. 3 Costs of compliance with burdensome or changing environmental and operational safety regulations could cause our focus to be diverted away from our business and our results of operations to suffer. Liquid waste disposal and fuel production involves the discharge of potential contaminants into the water and air. As a result, we are subject to complicated environmental regulations of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and regulations and permitting requirements of the various states. These regulations are subject to change and such changes may require additional capital expenditures or increased operating costs. Consequently, considerable resources may be required to comply with future environmental regulations. We did not incur any capital expenditures for environmental control in 2008 or 2009 and we do not currently expect to incur material capital expenditures for environmental controls in this or the succeeding fiscal year In addition, our production plants could be subject to environm ental nuisance or related claims by employees, property owners or residents near the plants arising from air or water discharges Environmental and public nuisance claims, or tort claims based on emissions, or increased environmental compliance costs could significantly increase our operating costs. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable 