Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to the Company’s Business We have a limited operating history and there can be no assurance that we can achieve or maintain profitability. We have a limited operating history that can be used to evaluate us, and the likelihood of our success must be considered in light of the problems, expenses, difficulties, complications and delays that we may encounter because we are a small business. As a result, we may not be profitable and we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to develop as we have planned. Our ability to achieve and maintain profitability and positive cash flow will be dependent upon: · Management’s ability to maintain the technology and skills necessary for our fuel conversion services; · Our ability to keep abreast of the changes by the government agencies and law particularly in the areas of intellectual property and environmental regulation; · Our ability to attract customers who require the products and services we offer; · Our ability to generate revenues through the sale of our products and services to potential clients; and · Our ability to manage the logistics and operations of the Company and the distribution of our products and services. 7 We have had operating losses since formation and expect to incur net losses for the near term. We reported a net income of $23,600 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 and a net loss of $2,907,062 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011. We anticipate that we will lose money in the near term and we may not be able to achieve profitable operations. In order to achieve profitable operations we need to secure sales of fuel and Plasma Arc Flow refinery systems. We cannot be certain that our business will be successful or that we will generate significant revenues and become profitable. The growth of our business depends upon the development and successful commercial acceptance of our products. We depend upon a variety of factors to ensure that our MagneGas fuel and Plasma Arc Flow system are successfully commercialized, including timely and efficient completion of design and development, implementation of manufacturing processes, and effective sales, marketing, and customer service. Because of the complexity of our products, significant delays may occur between development, introduction to the market and volume production phases. The development and commercialization of the MagneGas fuel and Plasma Arc Flow system involves many difficulties, including: · retention and hiring of appropriate operational, research and development personnel; · determination of the products’ technical specifications; · successful completion of the development process; · successful marketing of the MagneGas fuel and Plasma Arc Flow system and achieving customer acceptance; · managing inventory levels, logistics and operations; and · additional customer service and warranty costs associated with supporting product modifications and/or subsequent potential field upgrades. We must expend significant financial and management resources to develop and market our MagneGas fuel and Plasma Arc Flow system. We cannot assure that we will receive meaningful revenue from these investments. If we are unable to continue to successfully develop or modify our products in response to customer requirements or technological changes, or our products are not commercially successful, our business may be harmed. The possibility of a global financial crisis may significantly impact our business and financial condition and our ability to attract customers to our relatively new technology for the foreseeable future. The turmoil in the global financial system may adversely impact our ability to raise capital, invest in the development and refinement of our technology and to successfully market it to new customers. We may face increasing challenges if conditions in the financial markets do not improve over time. Our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to raise financing, which could have a material negative impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. The economic situation could have a material negative impact on our ability to attract new customers willing to try our alternative fuel products or purchase our technology. Failure to comply with government regulations will severely limit our sales opportunities and future revenue. Failure to obtain operating permits, or otherwise to comply with federal and state regulatory and environmental requirements, could affect our abilities to market and sell the MagneGas fuel and the Plasma Arc Flow system and could have a material adverse affect on our business and operations. We and our customers may be required to comply with a number of federal, state and local laws and regulations in the areas of safety, health and environmental controls. In as much as we intend to market the Plasma Arc Flow system internationally, we will be required to comply with laws and regulations and, when applicable, obtain permits in those other countries. 8 We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain or maintain, required permits and approvals, that new or more stringent environmental regulations will not be enacted or that if they are, that we will be able to meet the stricter standards. Our technology is unproven on a large-scale industrial basis and could fail to perform in an industrial production environment. The Plasma Arc Flow System has never been utilized on a large-scale industrial basis. All of the tests that we have conducted to date with respect to our technology have been performed on limited quantities of liquid waste, and we cannot assure you that the same or similar results could be obtained on a large-scale industrial basis. We cannot predict all of the difficulties that may arise when the technology is utilized on a large-scale industrial basis. In addition, our technology has never operated at a volume level required to be profitable. As our product is an alternative to acetylene, the unstable price of acetylene will impact our ability to become profitable and to sell cost competitive fuel. It is possible that the technology may require further research, development, design and testing prior to implementation of a larger-scale commercial application. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that this technology will perform successfully on a large-scale commercial basis, that it will be profitable to us or that our MagneGas fuel will be cost competitive in the market. Our future success is dependent, in part, on the performance and continued service of Scott Wainwright, our President, and Dr. Ruggero Maria Santilli, our CEO. Without their continued service, we may be forced to interrupt our operations. We are presently dependent to a great extent upon the experience, abilities and continued services of Scott Wainwright, our President and Dr. Ruggero Maria Santilli, our CEO. Scott Wainwright has developed strategic relationships in our industry that are critical to our success and has obtained knowledge of our product that will take substantial time to replace. Dr. Santilli is the inventor of the technology and the chief scientist at our Company and as such his knowledge of the intellectual property associated with the development and implementation of our technology is critical to our success. The loss of either of their services would delay our business operations substantially. Our related party transactions may cause conflicts of interests that may adversely affect our business. Our intellectual property was purchased through a related party transaction with HyFuels, Inc, who through the transaction became a shareholder of the Company. We currently lease our building through a related party transaction with a company wholly owned by Dr. and Mrs. Santilli. We own a 20% interest in Magnegas Europe, a Company whose CEO and major shareholder is Ermanno Santilli, our Executive Vice President of International Relations and the son of Dr. Santilli. In addition, Dr. Santilli has personally contributed a small refinery for our use and we have received various small notes and loans from related parties, all of which have been paid in full. We believe that these transactions and agreements that we have entered into with these affiliates are on terms that are at least as favorable as could reasonably have been obtained at such time from third parties. However, these relationships could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when our board of directors is faced with decisions that could have different implications for us and these affiliates. The appearance of conflicts, even if such conflicts do not materialize, might adversely affect the public’s perception of us, as well as our relationship with other companies and our ability to enter into new relationships in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise capital or to do business. The success of our business depends, in part, upon proprietary technologies and information which may be difficult to protect and may be perceived to infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties. We believe that the identification, acquisition and development of proprietary technologies are key drivers of our business. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, maintain the secrecy of our proprietary technology and information, and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. We cannot assure you that the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business, that the patents that provide us with competitive advantages will not be challenged by third parties, that we will develop additional proprietary technology that is patentable or that any patents issued to us will provide us with competitive advantages. Further, we cannot assure you that others will not independently develop similar or superior technologies, duplicate elements of our biomass technology or design around it. 9 In order to successfully commercialize our proprietary technologies, it is possible that we may need to acquire licenses to use, or to contest the validity of, issued or pending patents. We cannot assure you that any license acquired under such patents would be made available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, or that we would prevail in any such contest. In addition, we could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves in suits brought against us for alleged infringement of another party's patents or in defending the validity or enforceability of our patents, or in bringing patent infringement suits against other parties based on our patents. In addition to the protection afforded by patents, we also rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and technology that we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our prospective joint venture partners, employees and consultants. We cannot assure you that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any such breach, or that our trade secrets and proprietary know-how will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by others. We have the potential risk of product liability which may subject us to litigation and related costs Our Plasma Arc Flow system may be utilized in a variety of industrial and other settings, and may be used to handle materials resulting from the user's generation of liquid waste and the creation of a compressed hydrogen based fuel for distribution to end customers. The equipment, cylinders and gas will therefore be subject to risks of breakdowns and malfunctions. There is also inherent risk in the compression, transportation and use of the MagneGas fuel. It is possible that claims for personal injury and business losses arising out of these risks, breakdowns and malfunctions will occur. Our insurance may be insufficient to provide coverage against all claims, and claims may be made against us even if covered by our insurance policy for amounts substantially in excess of applicable policy limits. Such an event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because we are smaller and have fewer financial and other resources than many alternative fuel companies, we may not be able to successfully compete in the very competitive alternative fuel industry. Fuel is a commodity. There is significant competition among existing fuel producers. Our business faces competition from a number of producers that can produce significantly greater volumes of fuel than we can or expect to produce, producers that can produce a wider range of fuel products than we can, and producers that have the financial and other resources that would enable them to expand their production rapidly if they chose to. These producers may be able to achieve substantial economies of scale and scope, thereby substantially reducing their fixed production costs and their marginal productions costs. If these producers are able to substantially reduce their marginal production costs, the market price of fuel may decline and we may be not be able to produce biogas at a cost that allows us to compete economically. Even if we are able to operate profitably, these other producers may be substantially more profitable than us, which may make it more difficult for us to raise any financing necessary for us to achieve our business plan and may have a materially adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Costs of compliance with burdensome or changing environmental and operational safety regulations could cause our focus to be diverted away from our business and our results of operations may suffer. Liquid waste disposal and fuel production involves the discharge of potential contaminants into the water and air and is subject to various regulatory and safety requirements. As a result, we are subject to complicated environmental regulations of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and regulations and permitting requirements of the various states. These regulations are subject to change and such changes may require additional capital expenditures or increased operating costs. Consequently, considerable resources may be required to comply with future environmental regulations. In addition, our production plants could be subject to environmental nuisance or related claims by employees, property owners or residents near the plants arising from air or water discharges. Environmental and public nuisance claims, or tort claims based on emissions, or increased environmental compliance costs resulting therefrom could significantly increase our operating costs. 10 As MagneGas fuel is new to the metalworking market, it may take time for the industry to adapt to it. In addition, the economy may adversely impact consumption of fuel in the metalworking market making it more difficult for us to sell our product. MagneGas fuel is a replacement for acetylene for the metalworking market. As this is a new product in the industry, it may take time for end users to consider changing from acetylene to MagneGas and as such this may adversely impact our sales. In addition, consumption for fuel in the metalworking market is highly dependent on the economic conditions of the manufacturing industry and as such adverse conditions in the economy may also negatively impact our ability to sell our fuel to market. Risks Related to our Common Stock: Our common stock is quoted only on the OTC Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”), which may have an unfavorable impact on our stock price and liquidity. Our common stock is quoted on the OTCBB. The OTCBB is a significantly more limited market than the New York Stock Exchange or the NASDAQ Stock Market. The quotation of our shares on the OTCBB may result in a less liquid market available for existing and potential stockholders to trade shares of our common stock, could depress the trading price of our common stock and could have a long-term adverse impact on our ability to raise capital in the future. There can be no assurance that there will be an active market for our shares of common stock either now or in the future. Market liquidity will depend on the perception of our operating business and any steps that our management might take to bring us to the awareness of investors. There can be no assurance given that there will be any awareness generated. Consequently, investors may not be able to liquidate their investment or liquidate it at a price that reflects the value of the business. As a result holders of our securities may not find purchasers for our securities should they to desire to sell them. Consequently, our securities should be purchased only by investors having no need for liquidity in their investment and who can hold our securities for an indefinite period of time. The market price for our common shares is particularly volatile given our status as a relatively unknown company with a small and thinly traded public float, limited operating history and lack of profits, which could lead to wide fluctuations in our share price. You may be unable to sell your common shares at or above your purchase price, which may result in substantial losses to you. The market for our common shares is characterized by significant price volatility when compared to the shares of larger, more established companies that trade on a national securities exchange and have large public floats, and we expect that our share price will continue to be more volatile than the shares of such larger, more established companies for the indefinite future. The volatility in our share price is attributable to a number of factors. First, as noted above, our common shares are, compared to the shares of such larger, more established companies, sporadically and thinly traded. As a consequence, the trading of relatively small quantities of shares by our shareholders may disproportionately influence the price of those shares in either direction. The price for our shares could, for example, decline precipitously in the event that a large number of our common shares are sold on the market without commensurate demand. Secondly, we are a speculative or “risky” investment due to our limited operating history, lack of profits to date, and uncertainty of future market acceptance for our potential products. As a consequence of this enhanced risk, more risk-adverse investors may, under the fear of losing all or most of their investment in the event of negative news or lack of progress, be more inclined to sell their shares on the market more quickly and at greater discounts than would be the case with the stock of a larger, more established company that trades on a national securities exchange and has a large public float. Many of these factors are beyond our control and may decrease the market price of our common shares, regardless of our operating performance. Future sales of our common stock in the public market by management or our large stockholders could lower our stock price. Our largest stockholders (each of whom has a representative on our Board of Directors or is on the Board of Directors themselves), together with the other members of our Board of Directors and our executive officers, collectively beneficially own 65.7% of our outstanding common stock. If our officers, directors and current stockholders sell, or indicate intent to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the trading price of our common stock may decline significantly. 11 Our Shares of common stock are very thinly traded, and the price may not reflect our value and there can be no assurance that there will be an active market for our shares of common stock now or in the future. Although our common stock is quoted on the OTCBB, our shares of common stock are very thinly traded, and the price of our common stock, if traded, may not reflect our value. There can be no assurance that there will be an active market for our shares of common stock either now or in the future. Market liquidity will depend on the perception of our operating business and any steps that our management might take to bring us to the awareness of investors. There can be no assurance given that there will be any awareness generated. Consequently, investors may not be able to liquidate their investment or liquidate it at a price that reflects the value of the business. As a result holders of our securities may not find purchasers our securities should they to sell securities held by them. Consequently, our securities should be purchased only by investors having no need for liquidity in their investment and who can hold our securities for an indefinite period of time. If a more active market should develop, the price of our shares of common stock may be highly volatile. Because there may be a low price for our shares of common stock, many brokerage firms may not be willing to effect transactions in our securities. Even if an investor finds a broker willing to effect a transaction in the shares of our common stock, the combination of brokerage commissions, transfer fees, taxes, if any, and any other selling costs may exceed the selling price. Further, many lending institutions will not permit the use of such shares of common stock as collateral for any loans. We expect to apply for listing of our common stock on a senior exchange, however, there can be no guarantee that such listing shall be achieved at any time. The members of our Board of Directors, their affiliates and our executive officers, as stockholders, control our company. Our largest stockholders (each of whom has a representative on our Board of Directors or is on the Board of Directors themselves) together with the other members of our Board of Directors and our executive officers, as stockholders, collectively beneficially own 65.9% of our outstanding common stock. As a result of this ownership, they have the ability to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by stockholders of our company, including the election of directors. In particular, Dr. Ruggero Maria Santilli, Chairman of the Board of Directors, beneficially owns 43.9% of our outstanding common stock and Allen Feng, a director of our company, beneficially owns 14.2% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Messrs. Santilli and Feng beneficially own an aggregate of 58.1% of our outstanding stock and have the ability to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by stockholders of our company. This concentration of ownership also may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company that may be favored by other stockholders. This could prevent transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over current market prices. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about us, or publish negative reports about our business, our share price could decline. Securities analysts currently do not cover our common stock and may not do so in the future. Our lack of analyst coverage might depress the price of our common stock and result in limited trading volume. If we do receive analyst coverage in the future, any negative reports published by such analysts could have similar effects. Future issuance of our common stock could dilute the interests of existing stockholders. We may issue additional shares of our common stock in the future. The issuance of a substantial amount of common stock could have the effect of substantially diluting the interests of our current stockholders. In addition, the sale of a substantial amount of common stock in the public market, either in the initial issuance or in a subsequent resale by the target company in an acquisition which received such common stock as consideration or by investors who acquired such common stock in a private placement could have an adverse affect on the market price of our common stock. 12 The application of the SEC’s “penny stock” rules to our common stock could limit trading activity in the market, and our stockholders may find it more difficult to sell their stock. Our common stock is currently trading at less than $5.00 per share and is therefore subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules. Before a broker-dealer can sell a penny stock, these rules require that it first approve the customer for the transaction and receive from the customer a written agreement to the transaction. It must furnish the customer a document describing the risks of investing in penny stocks. The broker-dealer must also tell the customer the current market quotation, if any, for the penny stock and the compensation the firm and its broker will receive for the trade. Finally, it must send monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. These disclosure requirements tend to make it more difficult for a broker-dealer to make a market in penny stocks, and could, therefore, reduce the level of trading activity in a stock that is subject to the penny stock rules. Consequently, our stockholders may find it more difficult to sell their stock as compared to other securities. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future, and you must rely on increases in the market prices of our common stock for returns on your investment. For the foreseeable future, we intend to retain any earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock. Accordingly, investors must be prepared to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation to earn an investment return, which may never occur. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our board of directors deems relevant. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments This information is not required for smaller reporting companies. 