ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, readers should carefully consider the following important factors. These factors, among others, in some cases have affected, and in the future could affect, our financial condition and results of operations and could cause our future results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements that appear in this on Form 10-K or that we have made or will make elsewhere. The global economic crisis could further impair the automotive industry thereby limiting demand for our products. The continuation or intensification of the recent global economic crisis and turmoil in the global financial markets may adversely impact our business, and the businesses of our customers. Our specialized plastics are sold to automobile parts manufacturers and distributors. The recent global economic crisis harmed most industries and has been particularly detrimental to the automotive industry. Since virtually all of our sales are made to auto industry participants, our sales and business operations are dependent on the financial health of the automotive industry and could suffer if our customers experience, or continue to experience, a downturn in their business. Presently, it is unclear whether and to what extent the economic stimulus measures and other actions taken or contemplated by the Chinese government and other governments thr oughout the world will mitigate the effects of the crisis on the automotive industry and other industries that affect our business. We concentrate our operations primarily in the automotive industry, therefore, a contraction in automotive sales and production could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and liquidity. We develop, manufacture, and distribute modified plastic, primarily for use in automobiles. Automotive sales and production are highly cyclical and depend, among other things, on general economic conditions and consumer spending and preferences (which can be affected by a number of issues including fuel costs and the availability of consumer financing). As the volume of automotive production fluctuates, the demand for our products also fluctuates. Global automotive sales and production deteriorated substantially in the second half of 2008 and are not expected to rebound significantly in the near term. While the China automotive sales and production maintained growth momentum in 2009 and continued to grow in 2010, the growth rate was down from previous years. A contraction in automotive sales and production could harm our results of ope rations and financial condition. Consequently, we are exposed to the risks of adverse developments affecting the auto industry to a greater extent than if our operations were dispersed over a variety of industries. In the event we do not comply with our obligations under our loan agreements with Longjiang Bank and Bank of Communication, which loans are secured by our land use rights, certain buildings and machinery, our business may be adversely affected and disrupted. Harbin Xinda has entered into short term loan agreements with Longjiang Bank and Bank of Communication. The loans are secured by Harbin Xinda’s land use right, buildings and machinery as collateral. Although we are in compliance and intend to continue to be in compliance with the payment terms and our other obligations under the loan agreements, we may not be able to repay these loans. In the event of a default on these obligations, Longjiang Bank and Bank of Communication may seize control over the pledged collateral, as a result of which our business may be adversely affected and disrupted. 13 A large percentage of our sales revenue is derived from sales to a limited number of distributors and a limited number of customers, and our business will suffer if sales to these customers decline. A significant portion of our sales revenue historically has been derived from a limited number of customers and one primary distributor. Sales to one major distributor accounted for approximately 50.3% and 83.5% of our sales for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our top five customers accounted for approximately 24.7% of our sales in 2010 and 18% in 2009. Any significant reduction in demand for modified plastics by any of these major customers or our distributor and any decrease in demand of products by its customers could harm our sales and business operations, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on a limited number of suppliers. While we have identified alternative sources for the materials we use, a temporary disruption in our ability to procure necessary materials and parts could adversely impact our net sales in future periods. Materials constitute a substantial part of the cost of our products. We seek to reduce the cost of raw materials by dealing with three major suppliers, Mankeri, Dalian Lanhai and Shengyang Yuanhong. During the year ended December 31, 2010, Harbin Xinda purchased approximately 47.6% of its raw materials from Mankeri, approximately 48.0% from Dalian Lanhai and approximately 4.1% from Shenyang Yuanhong. In 2009 we purchased approximately 48.4% of our raw materials from Mankeri, and approximately 49.7% from Dalian Lanhai. We believe the relationship with our suppliers is satisfactory and that alternative suppliers are available if relationships falter or existing suppliers should become unable to keep up with our requirements. However, there can be no assurance that our current or future suppliers will be able to meet our requir ements on commercially reasonable terms or within scheduled delivery times. An interruption of our arrangements with suppliers could cause a delay in the production of our products for timely delivery to distributors and customers which could result in a loss of sales revenue in future periods. If we are subject to product quality or liability claims relating to our products, we may incur significant litigation expenses and management may have to devote significant time defending such claims, which if determined adversely to us, could require us to pay significant damage awards. Although we have adopted certain internal measures to supervise and examine the quality of our products, we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to our product quality. The defense of these proceedings and claims could be both costly and time-consuming and significantly divert the efforts and resources of our management. An adverse determination in any such proceedings could subject us to significant liability. In addition, any such proceeding, even if ultimately determined in our favor, could damage our market reputation and prevent us from maintaining or increasing sales and market share. Protracted litigation could also result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase of our products. We have limited insurance coverage on our assets in China and any uninsured loss or damage to our property, business disruption or litigation may result in our incurring substantial costs. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited insurance products. Other than automobile insurance on certain vehicles and property and casualty insurance for some of our assets such as factories and equipments we do not have insurance coverage on our other assets or inventories, nor do we have any business interruption, product liability or litigation insurance for our operations in China. We have determined that the costs of insuring for these risks and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance on commercially reasonable terms make it impractical for us to have such insurance. Any uninsured loss or damage to property, business disruption or litigation may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of our resources, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and/or liquidity. SAFE regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC individuals may increase our administrative burden and restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activity. If our shareholders and beneficial owners who are PRC individuals fail to make any required applications, registrations and filings under such regulations, we may be unable to distribute profits and may become subject to liability under PRC laws. The State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or “SAFE”, has promulgated several regulations, including Notice on Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Administration for PRC Residents to Engage in Financing and Inbound Investment via Oversea Special Purpose Vehicles, or the “Circular No. 75,” issued in November 2005 and certain implementation rules issued in recent years, requiring registrations with, and approvals from, PRC government authorities in connection with direct or indirect offshore investment activities by PRC residents and citizens individuals. These regulations apply to our shareholders and beneficial owners who are PRC individuals. 14 The Circular No. 75 requires PRC individuals to register with relevant local branches of SAFE for their establishment or control of any oversea special purpose vehicles, or the “SPVs,” or the contribution of assets of or their equity interests in any domestic company to any SPV, or any material changes of the SPVs. Failure to make the required SAFE registration may result in penalties including that our PRC subsidiaries may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the SPV and from paying the SPV proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the PRC subsidiaries. We have requested our shareholders and beneficial owners who are PRC individuals to make the necessary applications and filings as required under these regulations and under any implementing rules or approval practices that may be established under these regulations. However, as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, none of such shareholders and beneficial owners has made or obtained any applicable registration or approvals required by these regulations or other related legislation. The failure or inability of our PRC shareholders and beneficial owners to receive any required approvals or make any required registrations may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownershi p structure, as a result of which our acquisition strategy and business operations and our ability to distribute profits to you could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, under Operating Rules on the Foreign Exchange Administration of the Involvement of Domestic Individuals in the Employee Stock Ownership Plans and Share Option Schemes of Overseas Listed Companies, issued on January 5, 2007 by the SAFE (“Circular No. 78”), the PRC individuals who are granted shares or share options by an overseas listed company according to its employee share option or share incentive plan are required to obtain approval from and register with the SAFE or its local branches and complete certain other procedures related to the share option or other share incentive plan through the PRC subsidiary of such overseas listed company or any other qualified PRC agent before such grants are made. We believe that all of our PRC employees who are granted share options are subject to SAFE No.78. A s of the date hereof, we have granted options exercisable for an aggregate of 1,874,788 shares of our common stock, which grants were made to 34 PRC individuals. We have requested our PRC management, personnel, directors, employees and consultants who have been granted or are to be granted stock options of us to register them with local SAFE pursuant to the said regulations, however, we cannot assure you that each of these individuals has carried out or will carry out all the required procedures above. If we or our PRC option holders fail to comply with these regulations, we or our PRC option holders may be subject to fines and legal sanctions. Further, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC law for foreign exchange evasion and may become subject to more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities. Under the PRC EIT Law, we and/or Favor Sea BVI may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of the PRC. Such classification could result in tax consequences to us, our non-PRC resident shareholders and Favor Sea BVI. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress approved and promulgated a new tax law, the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or “EIT Law,” which took effect on January 1, 2008. Under the EIT Law, enterprises are classified as resident enterprises and non-resident enterprises. An enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” within China is considered a “resident enterprise,” and subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate on global income. The implementing rules of the EIT Law define “de facto management bodies” as a managing body that in practice exercises “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise; however, due to the short history of the EIT Law and lack of applicable legal precedents, it remains unclear whether the PRC tax authorities would deem our managing body as being located within China, or whether we or our non-PRC subsidiaries would be deemed as resident enterprises of the PRC. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we, Favor Sea Limited, a British Virgin Islands corporation (“Favor Sea (BVI)”) and/or Hong Kong Engineering Plastics Company Limited, a Hong Kong corporation (“HK Engineering Plastics”), are “resident enterprises” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of PRC tax consequences could follow. We, Favor Sea (BVI) and/or HK Engineering Plastics may be subject to enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our, Favor Sea (BVI) and/or HK Engineering Plastics’s worldwide taxable income, as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. However, under the EIT Law and its implementing rules, dividends paid between “qualified resident enterprises” are exempt from enterprise income tax. As a result, if we, Favor Sea (BVI) a nd HK Engineering Plastics are treated as PRC “qualified resident enterprises,” all dividends paid from Harbin Xinda to HK Engineering Plastics, from HK Engineering Plastics to Favor Sea (BVI) and from Favor Sea (BVI) to us may be exempt from PRC tax. 15 If we, Favor Sea (BVI) and HK Engineering Plastics are treated as PRC “non-resident enterprises” under the EIT Law, then dividends that HK Engineering Plastics receives from Harbin Xinda (assuming such dividends were considered sourced within the PRC) (i) may be subject to a 5% PRC withholding tax, if the Arrangement between the Mainland of China and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income (the “PRC-HK Tax Treaty”) were applicable, or (ii) if the PRC-HK Tax Treaty does not apply (i.e., because the PRC tax authorities may deem HK Engineering Plastics to be a conduit not entitled to treaty benefits), may be subject to a 10% PRC withholding tax. Similarly, if we and Favor Sea (BVI) were treated as PRC ̶ 0;non-resident enterprises” under the EIT Law, and HK Engineering Plastics were treated as a PRC “resident enterprise” under the EIT Law, then dividends that Favor Sea (BVI) receive from HK Engineering Plastics (assuming such dividends were considered sourced within the PRC) may be subject to a 10% PRC withholding tax; if we were treated as a PRC “non-resident enterprise” under the EIT Law, and Favor Sea (BVI) and HK Engineering Plastics were treated as PRC “resident enterprises” under the EIT Law, then dividends that we receive from Favor Sea (BVI) (assuming such dividends were considered sourced within the PRC) may be subject to a 10% PRC withholding tax. Any such taxes on dividends could materially reduce the amount of dividends, if any, we could pay to our shareholders. Finally, if we were deemed as a “resident enterprise,” the new “resident enterprise” classification could result in a situation in which an up to 10% PRC tax is imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC shareholders that are not PRC tax “resident enterprises”. In such event, we may be required to withhold an up to 10% PRC tax on any dividends paid to non-PRC resident shareholders. Our non-PRC resident shareholders also may be responsible for paying PRC tax at a rate of 10% on any gain realized from the sale or transfer of our ordinary shares in certain circumstances if such income is considered PRC-sourced income by relevant tax authorities. We would not, however, have an obligation to withhold PRC tax with respect to such gain. On December 15, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation (“SAT”) released Circular Guoshuihan No. 698 (“Circular 698”) that reinforces the taxation of non-listed equity transfers by non-resident enterprises through overseas holding vehicles. Circular 698 is retroactively effective from January 1, 2008. Circular 698 addresses indirect share transfer as well as other issues. According to Circular 698, where a foreign (non-PRC resident) investor who indirectly holds shares in a PRC resident enterprise through a non-PRC offshore holding company indirectly transfers equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise by selling the shares of the offshore holding company, and the latter is located in a country or jurisdiction where the effective tax burden is less than 12.5% or where the offshore inc ome of its residents is not taxable, the foreign investor is required to provide the PRC tax authority in charge of that PRC resident enterprise with certain relevant information within 30 days of the transfer. The tax authorities in charge will evaluate the offshore transaction for tax purposes. In the event that the tax authorities determine that such transfer is abusing forms of business organization lack of reasonable commercial purpose or for purpose of avoidance of PRC income tax liability, the PRC tax authorities will have the power to re-assess the nature of the equity transfer under the doctrine of substance over form. If the relevant tax authority’s challenge of a transfer is successful, it may disregard the existence of the offshore holding company that is used for tax planning purposes and require seller to pay PRC tax on the capital gain from such transfer. Since Circular 698 has a short history, there is uncertainty as to its application. We (or a foreign investor) may become a t risk of being taxed under Circular 698 and may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with Circular 698 or to establish that we (or such foreign investor) should not be taxed under Circular 698, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations (or such foreign investor’s investment in us). If any such PRC taxes apply, a non-PRC resident shareholder may be entitled to a reduced rate of PRC taxes under an applicable income tax treaty and/or a foreign tax credit against such shareholder’s domestic income tax liability (subject to applicable conditions and limitations). Prospective investors should consult with their own tax advisors regarding the applicability of any such taxes, the effects of any applicable income tax treaties, and any available foreign tax credits. 16 PRC regulations relating to mergers and acquisitions of domestic enterprises by foreign investors may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, namely, the PRC Ministry of Commerce, or the MOFCOM, the State Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, or the SASAC, the State Administration for Taxation, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, and the SAFE, jointly adopted the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Rule, which became effective on September 8, 2006. The M&A Rule purports, among other things, (i) to require any PRC company, enterprise or individual that intends to merge or acquire its domestic affiliated company in the name of an overseas company which it lawfully established or controls, to apply for MOFCOM’s examination on and approval for the propo sed merger or acquisition; and (ii) to require SPVs, formed for overseas listing purposes through acquisitions of PRC domestic companies and controlled by PRC companies or individuals, to obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to publicly listing their securities on an overseas stock exchange. Due to the short period of implementation of the M&A Rule, its interpretation and enforcement still remain uncertain. As a result, we are not sure whether the M&A Rule would require us or our entities in China to obtain the approval from either the MOFCOM or the CSRC or any other regulatory agencies in connection with the transaction contemplated by the share transfer contracts which were entered into between Mr. Jie Han, Mr. Qingwei Ma and Hong Kong Engineering Plastics Company Limited on June 26, 2008 , the transaction contemplated in the Agreement and Plan of Merger entered into by and among NB Telecom, Favor Sea (BVI) and the shareholders of Favor Sea (BVI) on December 24, 2008 (detailed description of both of the two aforesaid transactions and relevant contracts can be found in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, filed on April 14, 2010) the adoption and performance of the option agreement dated May 16, 2008 between Ms. Piao and Mr. Han. Further, if the PRC government finds that we or our Chinese stockholders did not obtain the MOFCOM or CSRC approval, which the MOFCOM or CSRC may think we should have obtained before executing the aforesaid agreements, we could be subject to severe penalties. The M&A Rule does not stipulate the specific penalty terms, so we are not able to predict what penalties we may face, and how such penalties will affect our business operations or future strategy. Our business will suffer if we cannot obtain or maintain necessary permits or approvals. Under PRC laws, we are required to obtain from various PRC governmental authorities certain permits and licenses in relation to the operation of our business. These permits and licenses are subject to periodic renewal and/or reassessment by the relevant PRC government authorities and the standards of compliance required in relation thereto may from time to time be subject to change. We cannot assure you that we can always obtain, maintain or renew all the permits and licenses in a timely manner. Additionally, any changes in compliance standards, or any new laws or regulations that may prohibit or render it more restrictive for us to conduct our business or increase our compliance costs may adversely affect our operations or profitability. Any failure by us to obtain, maintain or renew necessary licenses, permits and approvals, could su bject us to fines and other penalties and limit the business we could conduct, which could have a material adverse effect on the operation of our business. In addition, we may not be able to carry on business without such permits and licenses being renewed and/or reassessed. Pursuant to PRC laws and regulations, construction or expansion of a building or a production facility is subject to various permits and approvals from different government authorities. In connection with the construction of Harbin Xinda’s factory and production facilities, which has already been completed and put into operation, we obtained a project approval from Administration Committee of Harbin Economic and Technological & High-tech Development Zone and an approval for the environmental impact assessment report on the construction project of Harbin Xinda in 2003. However, certain other necessary permits relating to the construction and operation of Harbin Xinda’s factory and production facilities are outstanding. Failure to obtain all necessary approvals/permits may subject us to various penalties, such as fines or being required to vacate from the facilities where we currently operate our business. 17 We are subject to the environmental protection laws of China. We do not possess all of the environmental licenses required to operate our business. This could subject us to fines and other penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our manufacturing process produces by-products such as effluent, gases and noise, which are harmful to the environment. We are subject to multiple laws governing environmental protection, such as “The Law on Environmental Protection in the PRC” and “The Law on Prevention of Effluent Pollution in the PRC,” as well as standards set by the relevant governmental authorities determining the classification of different wastes and proper disposal. We are required to hold a variety of environmental permits and licenses to operate our business. We have not obtained certain approvals for the environmental impact assessment reports on the construction of our factory and production facilities in the PRC. Although we have not been penalized by any governmental authorities so far for the failu re to posses such permits or licenses, there is no guarantee that the environmental authorities or any other regulatory authorities will not take any action against us in the future. If we are found to be in violation of environmental laws, we may be subject to fines, suspension of operation or other sanctions which could adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations. Increased environmental regulation in China could increase our costs of operation. Certain processes utilized in the production of modified plastics result in toxic by-products. To date, the Chinese government has imposed only limited regulation on the production of these by-products, and enforcement of the regulations has been sparse. Recently, however, there is a substantial increase in focus on the Chinese environment, which has inspired considerable new regulation. Because Harbin Xinda plans to export plastics to the U.S. and Europe in coming years, Harbin Xinda has developed certain safeguards in its manufacturing processes to assure compliance with the environmental protection standard ISO/TS16949 Quality Assurance Standard, the European Union’s RoHS Standards and Germany’s PAHs Standards. Furthermore, we are in the process of applying for the U.S.’s UL Safety Certification, ISO1400 1 Environmental Management System Certification and OHSAS18001 Occupational Health Management System Certification. This compliance regimen brings us into compliance with all Chinese environmental regulations. Additional regulation, however, could increase our cost of doing business, which would impair our profitability. If we fail to develop and maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud; as a result, current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in the integrity of our financial reports, which could harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate and report on our internal controls over financial reporting. The process of strengthening our internal controls and complying with Section 404 is expensive and time consuming, and requires significant management attention. During the assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2010, our management concluded that our controls were ineffective as a result of deficiencies that were determined to be material weaknesses. The weakness stemmed from our inadequate US GAAP expertise. We have developed a remediation plan, which we have implemented in 2010. Our remediation plan consists of (1) hiring a third party SOX 404 compliance consultant to help us improve our internal controls system, and (2) recruiting more senior qualified people in order to improve our internal control procedures. We have already hired Mr. Taylor Zhang as our Chief Financial Officer, who has several years of experience in finance, including as a CFO and VP of Finance at other Nasdaq listed companies. In addition, we have hired Ms. Cindy Tang in July 2010 as our accounting manager in US office. Ms. Tang obtained her MBA degree in accounting from Seton Hall University in New Jersey. Ms. Tang has an ACCA certi ficate since 1996 and more than 15 years of experience in accounting. We believe these appointments and hiring are a significant step to addressing these weaknesses. 18 We cannot be certain that these measures we have undertaken will ensure that we will maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Furthermore, if we are able to rapidly grow our business, the internal controls that we will need may become more complex, and significantly more resources may be required to ensure our internal controls remain effective. Failure to implement required controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we fail to maintain an effective internal control system, our stockholders and other potential investors may lose confidence in our business operations and the integrity of our financial statements, and may be discouraged from future investments in our company, which may delay or hinder any future business development or expansion plans if we are unable to raise funds in future financings, and our current stockholders may choose to dispose of the shares of common stock they own in our company, which could have a negative impact on our stock price. In addition, non-compliance with Section 404 could subject us to a variety of administrative sanctions, including the suspension of trading of our stock on the NASDAQ Global Market, ineligibility for listing on other national securities exchanges, and the inability of registered broker-dealers to make a market in our common stock, which could further reduce our stock price. We may be subject to or liable to US taxes, interest and penalties. Because we do not generate any income in the U.S., we do not believe that we owe U.S. federal income taxes for the taxable years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. However, there can be no assurance that the IRS will agree with this position, and therefore we ultimately could be held liable for U.S. federal income taxes, interest and penalties. Our inability or failure to protect our intellectual property rights may significantly and materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Protection of our proprietary processes, methods and other technology is important to our business. We generally rely on a combination of the patent, trademark and copyright laws of the PRC and laws protecting trade secret in the PRC, as well as licenses and non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements, to protect our intellectual property rights. The patent, trademark and copyright laws of the PRC, as well as laws protecting trade secret in the PRC, may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights may result in the loss of valuable proprietary technologies. Additionally, some of our technologies are not covered by any patent or patent application and, even if a patent application has been filed, it may not result in an issued patent. If patents are issued to us, those patents may not provide meaningful protection against competitors or against competitive technologies. In addition, upon the expiration of patents issued to us, we will be unable to prevent our competitors from using or introducing products using the formerly-patented technology. As a result, we may be faced with increased competition and our results of operations may be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that our intellectual property rights will not be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unen forceable. We also rely upon unpatented proprietary manufacturing expertise, continuing technological innovation and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. While we generally enter into confidentiality/non-disclosure agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, we cannot assure you that our confidentiality/non-disclosure agreements will not be breached, that they will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and proprietary manufacturing expertise or that adequate remedies will be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets or manufacturing expertise. Our intellectual property rights may be challenged or infringed upon by third parties or we may be unable to maintain, renew or enter into new license agreements that are important to our business with third-party owners of intellectual property on reasonable terms. We could also face patent infringement claims from our competitors or others alleging that our processes or products infringe on their proprietary technologies. If we are found to be infringing on the proprietary technology of others, we may be liable for damages, and we may be required to change our processes, to redesign our products partially or completely, to pay to use the technology of others or to stop using certain technologies or producing the infringing product(s) entirely. Even if we ultimately prevail in an infringement suit, the existence of the suit could prom pt customers to switch to products that are not the subject of infringement suits. We may not prevail in any intellectual property litigation and such litigation may result in significant legal costs or otherwise impede our ability to produce and distribute key products. 19 The purchase of shares of XD Engineering by our chairman and chief executive officer, Mr. Jie Han, upon the achievement of certain performance thresholds resulted in a non-cash compensation expense of approximately $13,355,832 which had a negative impact on our results of operations for the 2010 fiscal year. Pursuant to an option agreement dated May 16, 2008, Mr. Han received stock options from Ellie Qiuyao Piao (“Ms. Piao”), the sole shareholder of XD Engineering Plastics Company Limited (“XD Engineering”), which was the principal shareholder of our subsidiary, Favor Sea (BVI), before the reverse merger. The option agreement provides that Mr. Han may purchase from Ms. Piao, for a nominal price, all of the outstanding shares of XD Engineering if, on a consolidated basis, Favor Sea (BVI)’s revenue achieved certain thresholds. Mr. Han could purchase 25% of the total outstanding shares if Favor Sea (BVI)’s revenue during the first three quarters of 2008 exceeded $40 million. He may purchase 14% of the total outstanding shares if Favor Sea (BVI)’s revenue during the first three quarter s of 2009 exceeds $70 million, and he may purchase 61% of the total outstanding shares if Favor Sea (BVI)’s revenue during the first three quarters of 2010 exceeds $110 million. Favor Sea (BVI)’s consolidated revenue reached the thresholds during the first three quarters of 2010, which resulted in a non-cash compensation expense of approximately $13,355,832 in fiscal year 2010. Because XD Engineering is the principal shareholder of our subsidiary, Favor Sea (BVI), and the issuance of the XD Engineering shares is conditioned upon the operating performance of Favor Sea (BVI), the shares are deemed to be compensation to Mr. Han and under applicable accounting rules, we recorded a non-cash charge to our earnings for the fiscal year 2010. The charges to our earnings as a result of the issuance of the XD Engineering shares have a negative impact on our consolidated statements of income for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, by reducing net income and our earnings per share. We may be unable to renew the leases for our factories on acceptable terms or these leases may be terminated. Harbin Xinda currently operates two separate factories located at 9 Qinling Road (the “Qinling Road Factory”) and at 9 North Dalian Road (the “Dalian Road Factory”). Harbin Xinda does not have titles to the land and premises occupied and used at the Dalian Road Factory, but leases such properties from Harbin Xinda High-Tech Co., Ltd (“Harbin High-Tech”) and its newly established subsidiary, the Engineering Center entered into an agreement with Harbin High-Tech to lease an office building at the Dalian Road Factory. Harbin Xinda and the Engineering Center’s leases will expire on April 30, 2012 and May 31, 2013 respectively. If we are unable to renew our lease on acceptable terms in due course or if our lease is terminated by the lessor unilaterally: · we may be unable to find a new property with the amenities and in the location we require for our factories, which may result in a factory closure; · we may have to relocate to a less desirable location; · we may have to relocate to a location with facilities that do not meet our requirements; · we may incur significant costs in connection with identifying, securing and relocating to a replacement location; or · our factories may experience significant disruption in operations and, as a result, we may be unable to produce products during the period of disruption. Any of these events may materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. A sharp increase in the demand or the price for raw materials may have a negative impact on our results of operations if we are unable to pass on increases in the cost of raw materials to our customers on a timely basis. The total cost of raw materials made up approximately 98% and 97% of our cost of goods sold in 2010 and 2009, respectively. The main raw materials used in our production are plastic resins such as polypropylene, ABS and nylon, which made up approximately 85% and 79% of our total cost of raw materials in 2010 and 2009 on average. 20 Currently, plastic resins are mainly used as a raw material in China’s plastic parts molding industry. The market prices of plastic resins may fluctuate due to changes in supply and demand conditions in that industry. Any sudden shortage of supply or significant increase in demand of plastic resins and additives may result in higher market prices and thereby increase our cost of sales. The prices of plastic resins and additives are, to a certain extent, affected by the price movement of crude oil. The international market prices for crude oil increased in 2010 compared to the fourth quarter of 2009, which caused the price of raw materials to increase. In addition, under the terms of our customer agreements, we can only increase the sales price for our products if the cost of our raw materials increases by more than 5%. As a resul t, our inability to increase the selling price of our products to cover increases of less than 5%, may limit our profitability. All of our assets are located in China. So any dividends or proceeds from liquidation are subject to the approval of the relevant Chinese government agencies. Our assets are located inside China. Under the laws governing FIEs in China, dividend distribution and liquidation are allowed but subject to special procedures under the relevant laws and rules. Any dividend payment will be subject to the decision of the Board of Directors and subject to foreign exchange rules governing such repatriation. Any liquidation is subject to both the relevant government agency’s approval and supervision as well the foreign exchange control. This may generate additional risk for our investors in case of dividend payment or liquidation. Governmental control of currency conversions may affect the value of your investment. All of our revenue is earned in Renminbi, and any future restrictions on currency conversions may limit our ability to use revenue generated in Renminbi to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars. Although the PRC government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the Renminbi for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign-invested enterprises like us may buy, sell or remit foreign currencies only after providing valid commercial documents at a PRC banks specifically authorized to conduct foreign-exchange business. In addition, conversion of Renminbi for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in the PRC, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign-exchange accounts for capital account items. There is no guarantee that PRC regulatory authorities will not impose additional restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi. Such restrictions could prevent us from distributing dividends and thereby reduce the value of our stock. The fluctuation of the exchange rate of the Renminbi against the dollar could reduce the value of your investment. The value of our common stock will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars we receive from an offering of our securities into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. Dollar could reduce the value in Renminbi of our funds. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our common stock or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings from The Company, our subsidiary in China, would be reduced. In addition, the depreciation of significant U.S. Dollar-denominated assets could result in a charge to our income statement and a reduction in the value of these assets. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. Dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in an appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar of approximately 20.2% from July 21, 2005 to December 31, 2010. While the international reaction to the Renminbi revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. Dollar. 21 We receive all of our revenues in Renminbi. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of the China. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict our ability to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends, or otherwise satisfy foreign currency denominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from the transaction, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”) by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate governmental authorities is required where Renminbi are t o be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of the PRC to pay capital expenses, such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government could also restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay certain expenses as they become due. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 