Item 1A. Risk Factors. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results and financial condition, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Our business is largely based on a subscription model, and accordingly, any failure to increase the number of our customers or retain existing customers could cause our revenues to decline. Our customers include premium members of our LoopNet marketplace, LoopLink users, users of our BizBuySell marketplace, RecentSales subscribers, and advertising and lead generation customers. Most of our revenues are generated by subscription fees paid by our premium members. Our growth depends in large part on increasing the number of our free basic members and then converting them into paying premium members, as well as retaining existing premium members. Either category of members may decide not to continue to use our services in favor of alternate services or because of budgetary constraints or other reasons. Historically, the overall conversion ratio of premium members to basic members on LoopNet has been approximately five percent, and our average monthly cancellation rate for premium members has ranged between three and five percent. We believe that a decline in the fourth quarter of 2007 in our premium to basic member conversion ratio to approximately 3.4% is attributable to an increasing proportion of principals (i.e., investors and tenants) in our membership base, who convert to premium membership at a lower rate than the professional agents and brokers in the market, and an approximately 18% increase in the average subscription prices which we charge our premium members. During the current quarter the commercial real estate credit markets experienced further tightening as a result of the subprime issues affecting the residential real estate credit markets. In the fourth quarter of 2007 our cancellation rate exceeded our historical levels and we believe the increase is attributable to the credit tightening that the commercial real estate industry experienced and the increase in the average subscription prices which we charge our premium members. Given the current market conditions we are experiencing we believe our monthly cancellation rate during 2008 will range from 4.5% to 6.5%. We anticipate that the average subscription price for our premium members will continue to rise, which may in turn drive slower acquisition of new premium members and increased cancellations of existing premium memberships. While we believe that the increase in revenues attributable to the higher average subscription price will offset any slowing of or decline in our acquisition of premium members, we cannot assure you that such an offset will in fact occur. If our existing members choose not to use our services, decrease their use of our services, or change from being premium members to basic members, or we are unable to attract new members, listings on our site could be reduced, search activity on our website could decline, the usefulness of our services could be diminished, and we could incur significant expenses and/or experience declining revenues. 14 Table of Contents The value of our marketplace to our customers is dependent on increasing the number of property listings provided by and searches conducted by our members. To grow our marketplace, we must convince prospective members to use our services. Prospective members may not be familiar with our services and may be accustomed to using traditional methods of listing, searching, marketing and advertising commercial real estate. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in continuing to acquire more members, in continuing to convert free basic members into paying premium members or that our future sales efforts in general will be effective. Further, it is difficult to estimate the total number of active commercial real estate agents, property owners, landlords, buyers and tenants in the United States during any given period. As a result, we do not know the extent to which we have penetrated this market. If we reach the point at which we have attempted to sell our services to a significant majority of commercial real estate transaction participants in the United States, we will need to seek additional products and markets in order to maintain our rate of growth of revenues and profitability. We rely on our marketing efforts to generate new registered members. If our marketing efforts are ineffective, we could fail to attract new registered members, which could reduce the attractiveness of our marketplace to current and potential customers and lead to a reduction in our revenues. We believe that the attractiveness of our services and products to our current and potential customers increases as we attract additional members who provide additional property listings or conduct searches on our marketplace. This is because an increase in the number of our members and the number of listings on our website increases the utility of our website and of its associated search, listing and marketing services. In order to attract new registered members, we rely on our marketing efforts, such as word-of-mouth referrals, direct marketing, online and traditional advertising, sponsoring and attending local industry association events, and attending and exhibiting at industry trade shows and conferences. There is no guarantee that our marketing efforts will be effective. If we are unable to effectively market our products and services to new customers, or convert existing basic members into premium members, and we are not able to offset any decline in our rate of conversion of basic members to premium members with higher average subscription prices, our revenues and operating results could decline as a result of current premium members failing to renew their premium memberships and potential premium members failing to become premium members. We may be unable to compete successfully with our current or future competitors. The market to provide listing, searching and marketing services to the commercial real estate industry is highly competitive and fragmented, with limited barriers to entry. Our current or new competitors may adopt certain aspects of our business model, which could reduce our ability to differentiate our services. All of the services which we provide to our customers, including property and business listing, searching, and marketing services, are provided separately or in combination to our current or potential customers by other companies that compete with us. These companies, or new market entrants, will continue to compete with us. Listings in the commercial real estate industry are not marketed exclusively through any single channel, and accordingly our competition could aggregate a set of listings similar to ours. Increased competition could result in a reduction in our revenues or our rate of acquisition of new customers, or loss of existing customers or market share, any of which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We compete with CoStar Group, Inc., a provider of information and research services to the commercial real estate market. Some of the services that CoStar offers directly compete with our product offering. For example, CoStar provides commercial real estate for sale and for lease property listings which compete directly with our online commercial real estate marketplace. Several companies, such as Property Line International, Inc., have created online property listing services that compete with us. These companies aggregate property listings obtained through various sources, including from commercial real estate agents. In addition, newspapers typically include on their websites listings of commercial real estate for sale and for lease. If our current or potential customers choose to use these services rather than ours, demand for our services could decline. Additionally, the National Association of REALTORS © , or NAR, its local boards of REALTORS © , its various affiliates, and other third parties have in the past created, and they or others may in the future create, 15 Table of Contents commercial real estate information and listing services. These services could provide commercial real estate for sale and for lease property listings which compete directly with our online commercial real estate marketplace. If they succeed in attracting a significant number of commercial real estate transaction participants, demand for our services may decrease. Large Internet companies that have large user bases and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do, such as eBay Inc. and craigslist, Inc., provide commercial real estate listing or advertising services in addition to a wide variety of other products or services. eBay and craigslist operate real estate listing services which include commercial real estate and operating businesses. Other large Internet companies, such as Google, Yahoo! and Microsoft, have classified listing services which could be used to market and search for commercial real estate property listings. Competition by these companies could reduce demand for our services or require us to make additional expenditures, either of which could reduce our profitability. If we are unable to obtain or retain listings from commercial real estate brokers, agents, and property owners, our marketplace could be less attractive to current or potential customers, which could result in a reduction in our revenues. Our success depends substantially on the number of commercial real estate property listings submitted by brokers, agents and property owners to our online marketplace. The number of listings on our marketplace has grown from approximately 224,000 as of December 31, 2003 to approximately 460,000 as of December 31, 2006, and as of December 31, 2007, we had approximately 560,000 listings. If agents marketing large numbers of property listings, such as large brokers in key real estate markets, choose not to continue their listings with us, or choose to list them with a competitor, our website would be less attractive to other real estate industry transaction participants, thus resulting in cancelled premium memberships, failure to attract and retain new members, or failure to attract advertising and lead generation revenues. Our operating results and revenues are subject to fluctuations that may cause our stock price to decline, and our quarterly financial results may be subject to seasonality, each of which could cause our stock price to decline. Our revenues, expenses and operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to do so in the future. Our revenues, expenses and operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to factors including those described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K: • rates of member adoption and retention; • changes in our pricing strategy and timing of changes; • changes in our marketing or other corporate strategies; • our introduction of new products and services or changes to existing products and services; • the amount and timing of our operating expenses and capital expenditures; • the amount and timing of non-cash stock-based charges; • costs related to acquisitions of businesses or technologies; and • other factors outside of our control. Our results of operations could vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to the seasonal nature of the commercial real estate industry. The timing of widely observed holidays and vacation periods, particularly slow downs during the end-of-year holiday period, and availability of real estate agents and related service providers during these periods, could significantly affect our quarterly operating results during that period. For example, we have historically experienced a significant decline in the rate of growth of both new memberships and revenues during the fourth quarter. These fluctuations or seasonality effects could negatively affect our results of operations during the period in question and/or future periods or cause our stock price to decline. 16 Table of Contents Our revenues, expenses and operating results could be affected by general economic conditions or by changes in commercial real estate markets, which are cyclical. Our business is sensitive to trends in the general economy and trends in commercial real estate markets, which are unpredictable. Therefore, our operating results, to the extent they reflect changes in the broader commercial real estate industry, may be subject to significant fluctuations. A number of factors could have an effect on the commercial real estate industry, such as: • periods of economic slowdown or recession globally, in the United States or locally; • inflation; • flows of capital into or out of real estate investment in the United States or various regions of the United States; • rates of unemployment; • interest rates; • the availability and cost of capital; • wage and salary levels; or • concerns about any of the foregoing. We believe that the commercial real estate industry is composed of many submarkets, each of which is influenced differently, and often in opposite ways, by various economic factors. We believe that commercial real estate submarkets can be differentiated based on factors such as geographic location, value of properties, whether properties are sold or leased, and other factors. Each such submarket may be affected differently by, among other things: • economic slowdown or recession; • changes in levels of rent or appreciation of asset values; • changing interest rates; • tax and accounting policies; • the availability and cost of capital; • costs of construction; • increased unemployment; • lower consumer confidence; • lower wage and salary levels; • war, terrorist attacks or natural disasters; or • the public perception that any of these conditions may occur. For example, as of December 31, 2007, more than 28% of our premium members were based in California and more than 12% were based in Florida. Negative conditions in these or other significant commercial real estate submarkets could disproportionately affect our business as compared to competitors who have less or different geographic concentration of their customers. Additionally, negative general economic conditions could reduce the overall amount of sale and leasing activity in the commercial real estate industry, and hence the demand for our services. Events such as a war or a significant terrorist attack are also likely to affect the general economy, which could cause a slowdown in the commercial real estate industry and therefore reduce utilization of our marketplace, which could reduce our revenue from premium members. In addition, the occurrence of any of the events listed above could increase our need to make significant expenditures to continue to attract customers to our marketplace. 17 Table of Contents If we are unable to introduce new or upgraded services or products that our customers recognize as valuable, we may fail to attract new customers or retain existing customers. Our efforts to develop new and upgraded products and services could require us to incur significant costs. To continue to attract new members to our online marketplace, we may need to continue to introduce new products or services. We may choose to develop new products and services independently or choose to license or otherwise integrate content and data from third parties. For example, in early 2006 we introduced our RecentSales product and aerial imagery MapSearch feature to address perceived customer needs or to add additional searching enhancements, both of which utilize content and technology licensed from third parties. The introduction of these improvements imposed costs on our business and required the use of our resources, and there is no guarantee that we will continue to be able to access these technologies and content on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If customers or potential customers do not recognize the value of our new services or enhancements to existing services, they might choose not to become premium members or to otherwise utilize our marketplace. Developing and delivering these new or upgraded services or products may impose costs and require the attention of our product and technology department and management. This process is costly, and we may experience difficulties in developing and delivering these new or upgraded services or products. In addition, successfully launching and selling a new service or product will require the use of our sales and marketing resources. Efforts to enhance and improve the ease of use, responsiveness, functionality and features of our existing products and services have inherent risks, and we may not be able to manage these product developments and enhancements successfully. If we are unable to continue to develop new or upgraded services or products, then our customers may choose not to use our products or services. We may be unable to effectively manage our growth. As our operations have expanded, and as the result of acquisitions of other companies, we have experienced rapid growth in our headcount. Our overall employee base has grown from 71 employees as of December 31, 2003 to 266 employees as of December 31, 2007. We expect to continue to increase headcount in the future. Our rapid growth has demanded, and will continue to demand, substantial resources and attention from our management. We will need to continue to hire additional qualified software engineers, client and account services personnel, and sales and marketing staff, and improve and maintain our technology to properly manage our growth. If we do not effectively manage our growth, our customer service and responsiveness could suffer and our costs could increase, which could harm our brand, increase our expenses, and reduce our profitability. We could face liability for information on our website. We provide information on our website, including commercial real estate listings, that is submitted by our customers and third parties. We also allow third parties to advertise their products and services on our website and include links to third-party websites. We could be exposed to liability with respect to this information. Customers could assert that information concerning them on our website contains errors or omissions and third parties could seek damages for losses incurred if they rely upon incorrect information provided by our customers or advertisers. We could also be subject to claims that the persons posting information on our website do not have the right to post such information or are infringing the rights of third parties. For example, in 1999 CoStar sued us, claiming that we had directly and indirectly infringed their copyrights in photographs by permitting our members to post those photographs on our website. Although the court issued rulings that were favorable to us in that litigation, other persons might assert similar or other claims in the future. Among other things, we might be subject to claims that by directly or indirectly providing links to websites operated by third parties, we would be liable for wrongful actions by the third parties operating those websites. Even if these claims do not result in liability to us, we could incur significant costs in investigating and defending against these claims. The Digital Millennium Copyright Act, or DMCA, allows copyright owners to obtain subpoenas compelling disclosure by an Internet service provider of the names of customers of that Internet service provider. We have been served with such subpoenas in the past, and may in the future be served with additional such subpoenas. Compliance with subpoenas under the DMCA may divert our resources, including the attention of our management, which could impede our ability to operate our business. 18 Table of Contents Our potential liability for information on our websites or distributed by us to others could require us to implement additional measures to reduce our exposure to such liability, which may require us to expend substantial resources and limit the attractiveness of our online marketplace to users. Our general liability insurance may not cover all potential claims to which we are exposed and may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. If we are unable to convince commercial real estate brokers and other commercial real estate professionals that our services and products are superior to traditional methods of listing, searching, and marketing commercial real estate, they could choose not to use our marketplace, which could reduce our revenues or increase our expenses. A primary source of new customers for us is the commercial real estate professional community. Many commercial real estate professionals are used to listing, searching and marketing real estate in traditional ways, such as through the distribution of print brochures, sharing of written lists, placing signs on properties, word-of-mouth, and newspaper advertisements. Commercial real estate professionals may prefer to continue to use traditional methods or may be slow to adopt our products and services. If we are not able to continue to persuade commercial real estate professionals of the efficacy of our products and services, they may choose not to use our marketplace, which could reduce our revenues. In addition, we could be required to increase our marketing and other expenditures to continue our efforts to attract these potential customers. Our business depends on retaining and attracting capable management and operating personnel. Our success depends in large part on our ability to retain and attract high-quality management and operating personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors, Richard J. Boyle, Jr.; our President and Chief Operating Officer, Thomas Byrne; our Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration, Brent Stumme; our Chief Strategy Officer and Senior Vice President, Corporate Development, Jason Greenman; and our Chief Technology Officer and Senior Vice President, Information Technology, Wayne Warthen. Our business plan was developed in large part by our senior-level officers, and its implementation requires their skills and knowledge. We may not be able to offset the impact on our business of the loss of the services of Mr. Boyle or other key officers or employees. We have no employment agreements that prevent any of our key personnel from terminating their employment at any time, and we do not maintain any “key-person” life insurance for any of our personnel. Furthermore, our business requires skilled technical, management, product and technology, and sales and marketing personnel, who are in high demand and are often subject to competing offers. Competition for qualified employees is intense in our industry, and the loss of a substantial number of qualified employees, or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly skilled employees required for the expansion of our activities, could harm our business. To retain and attract key personnel, we use various measures, including an equity incentive program and incentive bonuses for key executive officers and other employees. These measures may not be enough to attract and retain the personnel we require to execute our business plan. If we fail to protect confidential information against security breaches, or if our members or potential members are reluctant to use our marketplace because of privacy concerns, we might face additional costs, and activity in our marketplace could decline. As part of our membership registration process, we collect, use and disclose personally identifiable information, including names, addresses, phone numbers, credit card numbers and email addresses. Our policies concerning the collection, use and disclosure of personally identifiable information are described on our websites. While we believe that our policies are appropriate and that we are in compliance with our policies, we could be subject to legal claims, government action or harm to our reputation if actual practices fail to comply or are seen as failing to comply with our policies or with local, state or federal laws concerning personally identifiable information or if our policies are inadequate to protect the personally identifiable information that we collect. Concern among prospective customers regarding our use of the personal information collected on our websites could keep prospective customers from using our marketplace. Industry-wide incidents or incidents with respect to 19 Table of Contents our websites, including misappropriation of third-party information, security breaches, or changes in industry standards, regulations or laws could deter people from using the Internet or our website to conduct transactions that involve the transmission of confidential information, which could harm our business. Recently, our subsidiary, Cityfeet.com, was informed that there may have been a security breach to its credit card database and that some personally identifiable information of individuals contained in that database may have been misappropriated. Under California law and the laws of a number of other states, if there is a breach of our computer systems and we know or suspect that unencrypted personal customer data has been stolen, we are required to inform any customers whose data was stolen, which could harm our reputation and business. In addition, another California law requires businesses that maintain personal information about California residents in electronic databases to implement reasonable measures to keep that information secure. Our practice is to encrypt all personal information, but we do not know whether our current practice will continue to be deemed sufficient under the California law. Other states have enacted different and sometimes contradictory requirements for protecting personal information collected and maintained electronically. Compliance with numerous and contradictory requirements of the different states is particularly difficult for an online business such as ours which collects personal information from customers in multiple jurisdictions. Another consequence of failure to comply is the possibility of adverse publicity and loss of consumer confidence were it known that we did not take adequate measures to assure the confidentiality of the personally identifiable information that our customers had given to us. This could result in a loss of customers and revenue that could jeopardize our success. While we intend to comply fully with all relevant laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in avoiding all potential liability or disruption of business in the event that we do not comply in every instance or in the event that the security of the customer data that we collect is compromised, regardless of whether our practices comply or not. If we were required to pay any significant amount of money in satisfaction of claims under these laws or if we were forced to cease our business operations for any length of time as a result of our inability to comply fully with any such laws, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Further, complying with the applicable notice requirements in the event of a security breach could result in significant costs. Our services may infringe the intellectual property rights of others and we may be subject to claims of intellectual property rights infringement. We may be subject to claims against us alleging infringement of the intellectual property rights of others, including our competitors. Any intellectual property claims, regardless of merit, could be expensive to litigate or settle and could significantly divert our management’s attention from other business concerns. Our technologies and content may not be able to withstand third-party claims of infringement. If we were unable to successfully defend against such claims, we might have to pay damages, stop using the technology or content found to be in violation of a third party’s rights, seek a license for the infringing technology or content, or develop alternative noninfringing technology or content. Licenses for the infringing technology or content may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, developing alternative noninfringing technology or content could require significant effort and expense. If we cannot license or develop technology or content for any infringing aspects of our business, we may be forced to limit our service offerings. Any of these results could reduce our ability to compete effectively and harm our business. Our trademarks are important to our business. Other companies may own, obtain or claim trademarks that could prevent, limit or interfere with our use of trademarks. If we were unable to use our trademarks, we would need to devote substantial resources toward developing different brand identities. If we are unable to enforce or defend our ownership and use of intellectual property, our business, competitive position and operating results could be harmed. The success of our business depends in large part on our intellectual property, and our intellectual property rights, including existing and future trademarks, trade secrets, and copyrights, are and will continue to be valuable and important assets of our business. Our business could be significantly harmed if we are not able to protect the content of our databases and our other intellectual property. 20 Table of Contents We have taken measures to protect our intellectual property, such as requiring our employees and consultants with access to our proprietary information to execute confidentiality agreements. We also have taken action, and in the future may take additional action, against competitors or other parties who we believe to be infringing our intellectual property. We may in the future find it necessary to assert claims regarding our intellectual property. These measures may not be sufficient or effective to protect our intellectual property. We also rely on laws, including those regarding patents, copyrights, and trade secrets, to protect our intellectual property rights. Current laws may not adequately protect our intellectual property or our databases and the data contained in them. In addition, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of proprietary rights in Internet-related businesses are uncertain and evolving, and we cannot assure you of the future viability or value of any of our proprietary rights. Others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology. Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could require us to develop alternative intellectual property, incur licensing or other expenses, or limit our product and service offerings. If we are not able to successfully identify or integrate acquisitions, our management’s attention could be diverted, and efforts to integrate acquisitions could consume significant resources. We have made recent acquisitions of, and investments in, other companies, and we may in the future further expand our markets and services in part through additional acquisitions of, or investments in, other complementary businesses, services, databases and technologies. For example, in October, 2004, we acquired BizBuySell, an online marketplace for operating businesses for sale, in June, 2007, we acquired a minority position in Xceligent, Inc. and on August 2, 2007, we acquired Cityfeet.com Inc. Mergers and acquisitions are inherently risky, and we cannot assure you that our acquisitions will be successful. The successful execution of any acquisition strategy will depend on our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate such acquisitions and, if necessary, obtain satisfactory debt or equity financing to fund those acquisitions. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquired businesses could harm our business. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: • difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, and products of the acquired companies; • diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; • inability to maintain the key business relationships and the reputations of acquired businesses; • entry into markets in which we have limited or no prior experience and in which competitors have stronger market positions; • dependence on unfamiliar affiliates and partners; • insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; • reduction or replacement of the sales of existing services by sales of products or services from acquired lines of business; • responsibility for the liabilities of acquired businesses; • inability to maintain our internal standards, controls, procedures and policies; and • potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies. We may also incur costs, and divert our management’s attention from our business, by pursuing potential acquisitions or other investments which are never consummated. Although we undertake a due diligence investigation of each business that we acquire, there may be liabilities of the acquired companies that we fail to or are unable to discover during the due diligence investigation and for which we, as a successor owner, may be responsible. In connection with acquisitions, we generally seek to minimize the impact of these types of potential liabilities through indemnities and warranties from the seller, which may in some instances be supported by deferring payment of a portion of the purchase price. However, these indemnities 21 Table of Contents and warranties, if obtained, may not fully cover the liabilities due to limitations in scope, amount or duration, financial limitations of the indemnitor or warrantor or other reasons. In addition, if we finance or otherwise complete acquisitions or other investments by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted. Unless we develop, maintain and protect our brand identity, our business may not grow and our financial results may suffer. In an effort to obtain additional registered members and increase use of our online marketplace by commercial real estate transaction participants, we intend to continue to pursue a strategy of enhancing our brand both through online advertising and through traditional print media and to increase our marketing and business development expenditures to maintain and enhance our brand in the future. These efforts can involve significant expense and may not have a material positive impact on our brand identity. In addition, maintaining our brand will depend on our ability to provide products and services that are perceived as being high-value, which we may not be able to implement successfully. If we are unable to maintain and enhance our brand, our ability to attract and retain customers or successfully expand our operations will be harmed. If we are unable to effectively implement enhanced systems and internal controls, we may incur increased general and administrative costs, which could reduce our profitability, and investor confidence in us may decrease, which could cause our stock price to decline. As we grow, our success will depend on our ability to continue to implement and improve our operational, financial and management information and control systems on a timely basis, together with maintaining effective cost controls, in order to comply with the more stringent requirements of being a public company, such as the requirements of Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which require management to evaluate and assess the effectiveness of our internal controls and our disclosure controls and procedures. We are continuing to evaluate and, where appropriate, enhance our systems, procedures and internal controls. If our systems, procedures or controls are not adequate to support our operations and reliable, accurate and timely financial and other reporting, we may not be able to successfully satisfy regulatory and investor scrutiny, offer our services and implement our business plan. The implementation of these new systems, procedures and controls has increased our general and administrative costs in 2007 and is likely to do so in the future. If we fail to effectively implement these new systems, procedures and controls, investors may choose not to invest in us, which could cause our stock price to decline. Changes in or interpretations of accounting rules and regulations, such as expensing of stock options, could result in unfavorable accounting charges or require us to change our compensation policies. In the first quarter of 2006, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R, Share-Based Payment (SFAS 123R), which revises SFAS 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation and supersedes Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees (APB 25). SFAS 123R requires that share-based payment transactions with employees be recognized in the financial statements based on their value and recognized as compensation expense over the vesting period. Prior to SFAS 123R we disclosed the pro forma effects of SFAS 123 under the minimum value method. We adopted SFAS 123R effective January 1, 2006, prospectively for new equity awards issued subsequent to January 1, 2006. As a result of SFAS 123R, we may choose to reduce our reliance on stock options as a compensation tool. If we reduce our use of stock options and do not adopt other forms of compensation, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified employees. If we do not reduce our reliance on stock options, our operating expenses would increase. We currently rely on stock options to retain existing employees and attract new employees. Although we believe that our accounting practices are consistent with current accounting pronouncements, changes to or interpretations of accounting methods or policies in the future may require us to adversely revise how our consolidated financial statements are prepared. 22 Table of Contents If our operating results do not meet the expectations of investors or equity research analysts, our market price may decline and we may be subject to class action litigation. It is possible that in the future our operating results will not meet the expectations of investors or equity research analysts, causing the market price of our common stock to decline. In the past, companies that have experienced decreases in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. A securities class action lawsuit against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns. If our website or our other services experience system failures, our customers may be dissatisfied and our operations could be impaired. Our business depends upon the satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our website. Problems with our website could result in reduced demand for our services. Furthermore, the software underlying our services is complex and may contain undetected errors. Despite testing, we cannot be certain that errors will not be found in our software. Any errors could result in adverse publicity, impaired use of our services, loss of revenues, cost increases or legal claims by customers. Additionally, our services substantially depend on systems provided by third parties, over whom we have little control. Interruptions in our services could result from the failure of data providers, telecommunications providers, or other third parties. We depend on these third-party providers of Internet communication services to provide continuous and uninterrupted service. We also depend on Internet service providers that provide access to our services. Any disruption in the Internet access provided by third-party providers or any failure of third-party providers to handle higher volumes of user traffic could harm our business. Our internal network infrastructure could be disrupted or penetrated, which could materially impact our ability to provide our services and our customers’ confidence in our services. Our operations depend upon our ability to maintain and protect our computer systems, most of which are located in redundant and independent systems in Los Angeles, California and San Francisco, California. In addition, our BizBuySell website is hosted at a co-location facility in Virginia. While we believe that our systems are adequate to support our operations, our systems may be vulnerable to damage from break-ins, unauthorized access, vandalism, fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. Although we maintain insurance against fires, floods, and general business interruptions, the amount of coverage may not be adequate in any particular case. Furthermore, any damage or disruption could materially impair or prohibit our ability to provide our services, which could significantly impact our business. Experienced computer programmers, or hackers, may attempt to penetrate our network security from time to time. Our subsidiary, Cityfeet.com, recently was informed that there may have been a security breach to its credit card database, and that some personally identifiable information of individuals contained in that database may have been misappropriated. The potential breach has not affected any personally identifiable information with respect to LoopNet members, which information is maintained on separate servers. Although we maintain a firewall, and will continue to enhance and review our databases to prevent unauthorized and unlawful intrusions, a hacker who penetrates our network security could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our services. We might be required to expend significant capital and resources to protect against, or to alleviate, problems caused by hackers. We also may not have a timely remedy against a hacker who is able to penetrate our network security. In addition to purposeful security breaches, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose us to litigation or to a material risk of loss. Any of these incidents could materially impact our ability to provide our services as well as materially impact the confidence of our customers in our services, either of which could significantly impact our business. We may be subject to regulation of our advertising and customer solicitation or other newly-adopted laws and regulations. As part of our membership registration process, our customers agree to receive emails and other communications from us. However, we may be subject to restrictions on our ability to communicate with our customers 23 Table of Contents through email and phone calls. Several jurisdictions have proposed or adopted privacy-related laws that restrict or prohibit unsolicited email or “spam.” These laws may impose significant monetary penalties for violations. For example, the CAN-SPAM Act of 2003, or CAN-SPAM, imposes complex and often burdensome requirements in connection with sending commercial email. Key provisions of CAN-SPAM have yet to be interpreted by the courts. Depending on how it is interpreted, CAN-SPAM may impose burdens on our email marketing practices or services we offer or may offer. Although CAN-SPAM is thought to have pre-empted state laws governing unsolicited email, the effectiveness of that preemption is likely to be tested in court challenges. If any of those challenges are successful, our business may also be subject to state laws and regulations that may further restrict our email marketing practices and the services we may offer. The scope of those regulations is unpredictable. Compliance with laws and regulations of different jurisdictions imposing different standards and requirements is very burdensome for an online business. Our business, like most online businesses, offers products and services to customers in multiple state jurisdictions. Our business efficiencies and economies of scale depend on generally uniform service offerings and uniform treatment of customers. Compliance requirements that vary significantly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction impose an added cost to our business and increased liability for compliance deficiencies. In addition, laws or regulations that could harm our business could be adopted, or reinterpreted so as to affect our activities, by the government of the United States, state governments, regulatory agencies or by foreign governments or agencies. This could include, for example, laws regulating the source, content or form of information or listings provided on our websites, the information or services we provide or our transmissions over the Internet. Violations or new interpretations of these laws or regulations may result in penalties or damage our reputation or could increase our costs or make our services less attractive. An important aspect of the new Internet-focused laws is that where federal legislation is absent, states have begun to enact consumer-protective laws of their own and these vary significantly from state to state. Thus, it is difficult for any company to be sufficiently aware of the requirements of all applicable state laws, and it is further difficult or impossible for any company to fully comply with their inconsistent standards and requirements. In addition to the consequences that could result from violating one or another state’s laws, the cost of attempting to comply will be considerable. Also, as our business grows to be world-wide, we will be required to comply with the laws of all foreign countries, and the costs of that compliance effort will be considerable. Our stock price may be volatile and you may be unable to sell your shares at or above the purchase price. The market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to, among other things, the risk factors described in this section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and other factors beyond our control, such as fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us. Furthermore, the stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, many companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. Our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent a takeover that stockholders consider favorable and could also reduce the market price of our stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. These provisions could also make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions include: • providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; 24 Table of Contents • not providing for cumulative voting in the election of directors; • authorizing the board to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock rights senior to those of common stock; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; and • requiring advance notification of stockholder nominations and proposals. In addition, the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporate Law govern us. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us for a certain period of time. These and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts, reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and result in the market price being lower than it would be without these provisions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 