ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS UNLESS WE CAN REVERSE OUR HISTORY OF LOSSES, WE MAY HAVE TO DISCONTINUE OPERATIONS. If we are unable to achieve or sustain profitability, or if operating losses increase in the future, we may not be able to remain a viable company and may have to discontinue operations. Our expenses have historically exceeded our revenues and we have had losses in all fiscal years of operation, including those in fiscal years 2006 through 2007, and the losses are projected to continue in 2008. Our net losses were $183,124 and $110,321 for fiscal years ended 2006 and 2007 respectively. 8 WE MAY NOT SUCCEED OR BECOME PROFITABLE. We will need to generate significant revenues to achieve profitability and we may be unable to do so. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability in the future. We expect that our expenses will continue to increase and there is no guarantee that we will not experience operating losses and negative cash flow from operations for this fiscal year or for the foreseeable future. If we do not achieve or sustain profitability, then we may be unable to continue our operations. WE WILL NEED ADDITIONAL CAPITAL FINANCING IN THE FUTURE. We may be required to seek additional financing in the future to respond to increased expenses or shortfalls in anticipated revenues, accelerate product development and deployment, respond to competitive pressures, develop new or enhanced products, or take advantage of unanticipated acquisition opportunities. We cannot be certain we will be able to find such additional financing on reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to obtain additional financing when needed, we could be required to modify our business plan in accordance with the extent of available financing. IF WE ENGAGE IN ACQUISITIONS, WE MAY EXPERIENCE SIGNIFICANT COSTS AND DIFFICULTY ASSIMILATING THE OPERATIONS OR PERSONNEL OF THE ACQUIRED COMPANIES, WHICH COULD THREATEN OUR FUTURE GROWTH. If we make any acquisitions, we could have difficulty assimilating the operations, technologies and products acquired or integrating or retaining personnel of acquired companies. In addition, acquisitions may involve entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience. The occurrence of any one or more of these factors could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses. In addition, pursuing acquisition opportunities could divert our management’s attention from our ongoing business operations and result in decreased operating performance. Moreover, our profitability may suffer because of acquisition-related costs or amortization of acquired goodwill and other intangible assets. Furthermore, we may have to incur debt or issue equity securities in future acquisitions. The issuance of equity securities would dilute our existing stockholders. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO ADEQUATELY PROTECT OUR PROPRIETARY RIGHTS OR MAY BE SUED BY THIRD PARTIES FOR INFRINGEMENT OF THEIR PROPRIETARY RIGHTS. The telecommunications industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent litigation based on allegations of trade secret, copyright or patent infringement. We may inadvertently infringe a patent of which we are unaware. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be a patent application now pending of which we are unaware that will cause us to be infringing when it is issued in the future. If we make any acquisitions, we could have similar problems in those industries. Although we are not currently involved in any intellectual property litigation, we may be a party to litigation in the future to protect our intellectual property or as a result of our alleged infringement of another’s intellectual property, forcing us to do one or more of the following: • Cease selling, incorporating or using products or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • Obtain from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms; or • Redesign those products or services that incorporate such technology. A successful claim of infringement against us, and our failure to license the same or similar technology, could adversely affect our business, asset value or stock value. Infringement claims, with or without merit, would be expensive to litigate or settle, and would divert management resources. 9 BECAUSE OUR OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS ARE INDEMNIFIED AGAINST CERTAIN LOSSES, WE MAY BE EXPOSED TO COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH LITIGATION. If our directors or officers become exposed to liabilities invoking the indemnification provisions, we could be exposed to additional unreimbursable costs, including legal fees. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws provide that our directors and officers will not be liable to us or to any shareholder and will be indemnified and held harmless for any consequences of any act or omission by the directors and officers unless the act or omission constitutes gross negligence or willful misconduct. Extended or protracted litigation could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow. WE WILL DEPEND ON OUTSIDE MANUFACTURING SOURCES AND SUPPLIERS. We may contract with third party manufacturers to produce our products and we will depend on third party suppliers to obtain the raw materials necessary for the production of our products. We do not know what type of contracts we will have with such third party manufacturers and suppliers. In the event we outsource the manufacture of our products, we will have limited control over the actual production process. Moreover, difficulties encountered by any one of our third party manufacturers, which result in product defects, delayed or reduced product shipments, cost overruns or our inability to fill orders on a timely basis, could have an adverse impact on our business. Even a short-term disruption in our relationship with third party manufacturers or suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We do not intend to maintain an inventory of sufficient size to protect ourselves for any significant period of time against supply interruptions, particularly if we are required to obtain alternative sources of supply. THE REPORT OF OUR INDEPENDENT AUDITORS INDICATES UNCERTAINTY CONCERNING OUR ABILITY TO CONTINUE AS A GOING CONCERN. Our independent auditors have raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. This may impair our ability to implement our business plan, and we may never achieve significant revenues and therefore remain a going concern. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH POTENTIAL ACQUISITIONS As part of our business strategy, we may make acquisitions of, or investments in, companies, businesses, products or technologies. Any such future acquisitions would be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in such acquisitions. Those risks include, among other things: - the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies, - the potential disruption of our business or business plan, - the diversion of resources from our existing businesses, and products, - the inability of management to integrate acquired businesses or assets into our business plan, and - additional expense associated with acquisitions. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered with such acquisitions, and our inability to overcome such risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. POSSIBLE ISSUANCE OF ADDITIONAL SHARES WITHOUT STOCKHOLDER APPROVAL COULD DILUTE STOCKHOLDERS We currently have approximately 49,632,222 Shares of common stock outstanding. There are currently no other material plans, agreements, commitments or undertakings with respect to the issuance of additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into shares of our common stock. Additional shares could be issued in the future, and the result of the issuance of additional shares would be to further dilute the percentage ownership of our common stock held by our stockholders. 10 IF A MARKET FOR OUR COMMON STOCK DOES NOT DEVELOP, SHAREHOLDERS MAY BE UNABLE TO SELL THEIR SHARES. There is currently no market for our common stock and no market may develop. We currently plan to apply for listing of our common stock on the OTC Bulletin Board. However, our shares may not be traded on the bulletin board or, if traded, a public market may not materialize. If no market is ever developed for our shares, it will be difficult for shareholders to sell their stock. In such a case, shareholders may find that they are unable to achieve benefits from their investment. THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS POWER TO ISSUE PREFERRED STOCK, COULD DILUTE THE OWNERSHIP OF EXISTING SHAREHOLDERS AND THIS MAY INHIBIT POTENTIAL ACQUIRES OF THE COMPANY. Our articles of organization grant the board of directors the power to issue preferred stock with terms and conditions, including voting rights that they deem appropriate. The exercise of the discretion of the board to issue preferred stock and/or common stock could dilute the ownership rights and the voting rights of current shareholders. In addition, this power could be used by the Board to inhibit potential acquisitions by a third party. THE ADVENT OF WIRELESS PHONES HAS LESSENED THE DEMAND FOR PAYPHONES. The proliferation of wireless phones has significantly reduced the demand for payphones and we expect that trend to continue. Certain rate plans that provide unlimited long distance service and calling fees that are fixed or minimal have and are expected to continue to negatively affect our revenues and opportunity for growth. DIAL AROUND SERVICES. We compete with long distance carriers that provide dial around services that can be accessed through our payphones. The popularity of these services is increasing, and the use of these services reduces the fees we receive for long distance calls placed from our phones. THERE IS NO PUBLIC MARKET FOR OUR COMMON STOCK. Our common stock currently is not publicly traded. However, a trading market for the shares may develop in the future. If a public market does develop the public market will establish trading prices for our common stock. An active public market for our common stock may not develop or be sustained. WE DO NOT INTEND TO PAY DIVIDENDS ON OUR COMMON STOCK. We have never declared or paid any cash dividend on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings and do not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, financial conditions, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our board deems relevant. Shareholders must be prepared to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation to earn an investment return, which may never occur. If our common stock does not appreciate in value, or if our common stock loses value, our stockholder may lose some or all of their investment in our shares. 