Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below before buying our common stock. If any of the risks described below were realized, that event could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks related to doing business in China Our business operations are conducted entirely in China. Because China’s economy and its laws, regulations and policies are different from those typically found in the west and are continually changing, we will face risks including those summarized below. China is a developing nation governed by a one-party government and may be more susceptible to political, economic, and social upheaval than other nations. China is a developing country governed by a one-party government. China is also a country with an extremely large population, widening income gaps between rich and poor and between urban and rural residents, minority ethnic and religious populations, and growing access to information about the different social, economic, and political systems to be found in other countries. China has also experienced extremely rapid economic growth over the last decade, and its legal and regulatory systems have changed rapidly to accommodate this growth. These conditions make China unique and may make it susceptible to major structural changes. Such changes could include a reversal of China’s movement to encourage private economic activity, labor disruptions or other organized protests, nationalization of private businesses, internal conflicts between the police or military and the citizenry, and international political or military conflict. If any of these events were to occur, it could shut down China’s economy and cause us to temporarily or permanently cease operations. The PRC’s laws, regulations and policies, and changes to them, may limit our ability to operate profitably or prevent us from operating at all. Our stores and distribution centers, as well as our suppliers and the agricultural producers on whom they depend, are located in China. The PRC government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy, including the production, distribution and sale of our merchandise. In particular, we are subject to regulation by local and national branches of the Ministries of Commerce and Transportation, as well as the General Administration of Quality Supervision, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, and other regulatory bodies. In order to operate under PRC law, we require valid licenses, certificates and permits, which must be renewed from time to time. If we were to fail to obtain the necessary renewals for any reason, including sudden or unexplained changes in local regulatory practice, we could be required to shut down all or part of our operations temporarily or permanently. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to agriculture, taxation, land use rights and other matters. Such changes could be made at the national or local level and in the form of: farm subsidies; corporate tax rates; employee benefits; leaseholder or land-use rights; enforceability of contracts; intellectual property; or retail pricing. The effects of such changes on our business cannot be predicted but could be significant. All of our assets are located in China. So any dividends or proceeds from liquidation are subject to the approval of the relevant Chinese government agencies. Our assets are located inside China. Under the laws governing FIEs in China, dividend distribution and liquidation are allowed but subject to special procedures under the relevant laws and rules. Any dividend payment will be subject to the decision of the board of directors and subject to foreign exchange rules governing such repatriation. Any liquidation is subject to both the relevant government agency’s approval and supervision as well the foreign exchange control. This may generate additional risk for our investors in case of dividend payment or liquidation. Because our funds are held in banks which do not provide insurance, the failure of any bank in which we deposit our funds could affect our ability to continue in business. Banks and other financial institutions in the PRC do not provide insurance for funds held on deposit. As a result, in the event of a bank failure, we may not have access to funds on deposit. Depending upon the amount of money we maintain in a bank that fails, our inability to have access to our cash could impair our operations, and, if we are not able to access funds to pay our suppliers, employees and other creditors, we may be unable to continue in business. 7 Anti-inflation measures may be ineffective or harm our ability to do business in China. In recent years, the PRC government has instituted anti-inflationary measures to curb the risk of an overheated economy characterized by debilitating inflation. These measures have included devaluations of the renminbi, restrictions on the availability of domestic credit, and limited re-centralization of the approval process for some international transactions. These austerity measures may not succeed in slowing down the economy’s excessive expansion or control inflation, or they may slow the economy below a healthy growth rate and lead to economic stagnation or recession; in the worst-case scenario, the measures could slow the economy without curbing inflation. The PRC government could adopt additional measures to further combat inflation, including the establishment of price freezes or moratoriums certain projects or transactions. Such measures could harm the economy generally and hurt our business by limiting the income of our customers available to purchase our merchandise, by forcing us to lower our profit margins, and by limiting our ability to obtain credit or other financing to pursue our expansion plans or maintain our business. Governmental control of currency conversions may affect the value of your investment. All of our revenue is earned in renminbi, and any future restrictions on currency conversions may limit our ability to use revenue generated in renminbi to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars. Although the PRC government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the renminbi for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign-invested enterprises like us may buy, sell or remit foreign currencies only after providing valid commercial documents at a PRC banks specifically authorized to conduct foreign-exchange business. In addition, conversion of renminbi for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in the PRC, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign-exchange accounts for capital account items. There is no guarantee that PRC regulatory authorities will not impose additional restrictions on the convertibility of the renminbi. Such restrictions could prevent us from distributing dividends and thereby reduce the value of our stock. The fluctuation of the exchange rate of the renminbi against the dollar could reduce the value of your investment. The value of our common stock will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and renminbi. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars we receive from an offering of our securities into renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the renminbi against the U.S. Dollar could reduce the value in renminbi of our funds. Conversely, if we decide to convert our renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our common stock or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the renminbi, the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings from The Company, our subsidiary in China, would be reduced. In addition, the depreciation of significant U.S. Dollar-denominated assets could result in a charge to our income statement and a reduction in the value of these assets. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the renminbi to the U.S. Dollar. Under the new policy, the renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in an appreciation of the renminbi against the U.S. dollar of approximately 18% from July 21, 2005 to December 31, 2009. While the international reaction to the renminbi revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the renminbi against the U.S. Dollar. We receive all of our revenues in renminbi. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of the China. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict our ability to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends, or otherwise satisfy foreign currency denominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from the transaction, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”) by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate governmental authorities is required where renminbi are to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of the PRC to pay capital expenses, such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government could also restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay certain expenses as they become due. 8 Recently-modified SAFE regulations may restrict our ability to remit profits out of China as dividends. SAFE Regulations regarding offshore financing activities by PRC residents have recently undergone a number of changes which may increase the administrative burdens we face. The failure of our stockholders who are PRC residents to make any required applications and filings pursuant to these regulations may prevent us from being able to distribute profits and could expose us and our PRC-resident stockholders to liability under PRC law. SAFE issued a public notice (the “October Notice”), effective as of November 1, 2005, and implementation rules in May 2007, which require registration with SAFE by the PRC-resident stockholders of any foreign holding company of a PRC entity. These regulations apply to our stockholders who are PRC residents. In the absence of such registration, the PRC entity cannot remit any of its profits out of the PRC as dividends or otherwise. In the event that our PRC-resident stockholders have not followed the procedures required under the October Notice and its implementation rules, we could lose the ability to remit monies outside of the PRC and would therefore be unable to pay dividends or make other distributions, and we could face liability for evasion of foreign-exchange regulations. Such consequences could affect our good standing under PRC regulations and our ability to operate in the PRC, and could therefore diminish the value of your investment. China’s legal and judicial system may not adequately protect our business and operations and the rights of foreign investors. China’s legal and judicial system may negatively impact foreign investors. In 1982, the National People’s Congress amended the Constitution of China to authorize foreign investment and guarantee the “lawful rights and interests” of foreign investors in the China. However, the China’s system of laws is not yet comprehensive. The legal and judicial systems in the China are still rudimentary, and enforcement of existing laws is inconsistent. Many judges in China lack the depth of legal training and experience that would be expected of a judge in a more developed country. Because the China judiciary is relatively inexperienced in enforcing the laws that do exist, anticipation of judicial decision-making is more uncertain than would be expected in a more developed country. It may be impossible to obtain swift and equitable enforcement of laws that do exist, or to obtain enforcement of the judgment of one court by a court of another jurisdiction. The China’s legal system is based on civil law, or written statutes; a decision by one judge does not set a legal precedent that must be followed by judges in other cases. In addition, the interpretation of Chinese laws may vary to reflect domestic political changes. As a matter of substantive law, the foreign-invested enterprise laws provide significant protection from government interference. In addition, these laws guarantee the full enjoyment of the benefits of corporate articles and contracts to foreign-invested enterprise participants. These laws, however, do impose standards concerning corporate formation and governance, which are qualitatively different from the general corporation laws of the United States. Similarly, the PRC accounting laws mandate accounting practices that are not consistent with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. PRC accounting laws require that an annual “statutory audit” be performed in accordance with PRC accounting standards and that the books of account of foreign-invested enterprises are maintained in accordance with Chinese accounting laws. Article 14 of the PRC Wholly Foreign-Owned Enterprise Law requires a wholly foreign-owned enterprise to submit certain periodic fiscal reports and statements to designated financial and tax authorities, at the risk of business license revocation. Our subsidiary, Harbin Xinda Macromolecule Material Co, Ltd., is a wholly foreign-owned enterprise and is subject to these regulations. As a matter of enforcement, although the enforcement of substantive rights may appear less clear than in the U.S., foreign-invested enterprises and wholly foreign-owned enterprises are PRC-registered companies, which enjoy the same status as other PRC-registered companies in business-to-business dispute resolution. Because the Articles of Association of the Company do not specify a method for the resolution of business disputes, the Company and other parties involved in any business dispute are free to proceed either in the Chinese courts or, if they are in agreement, through arbitration. Under PRC law, any award rendered by an arbitration tribunal is enforceable in accordance with the United Nations Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards. Therefore, PRC laws relating to business-to-business dispute resolution should not work to the disadvantage of foreign-invested enterprises such as the Company. However, the PRC laws and regulations governing our current business operations are sometimes vague and uncertain. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including but not limited to the laws and regulations governing our business and the enforcement and performance of our arrangements with suppliers in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy and criminal proceedings. We and any future subsidiaries are considered foreign persons or foreign-invested enterprises under PRC laws, and as a result, we are required to comply with PRC laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are sometimes vague and may be subject to future changes, and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations may have on our business. 9 In addition, some of our present and future executive officers and directors, most notably Mr. Jie Han, may be residents of the PRC and not of the United States, and substantially all the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it could be difficult for investors to effect service of process in the United States, or to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of these persons. Risks related to our business Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and results of operations. We have a limited operating history. Accordingly, you should consider our future prospects in light of the risks and uncertainties experienced by early-stage companies in evolving markets such as China. Some of these risks and uncertainties relate to our ability to: • offer new products to attract and retain a larger customer base; • increase awareness of our brand and continue to develop customer loyalty; • respond to competitive market conditions; • respond to changes in our regulatory environment; • manage risks associated with intellectual property rights; • maintain effective control of our costs and expenses; • raise sufficient capital to sustain and expand our business; and • attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel Because we are a relatively new company, we may not be experienced enough to address all the risks in our business or in our expansion. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of these risks and uncertainties, our business may be materially and adversely affected. We expect to incur costs related to our planned expansion and growth into new plants and ventures which may not prove to be profitable. Moreover, any delays in our expansion plans could cause our profits to decline and jeopardize our business. We anticipate that our proposed expansion of our plants may include the construction of new or additional facilities. Our cost estimates and projected completion dates for construction of new production facilities may change significantly as the projects progress. In addition, our projects will entail significant construction risks, including shortages of materials or skilled labor, unforeseen environmental or engineering problems, weather interferences and unanticipated cost increases, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the projects and could delay their scheduled openings. A delay in scheduled openings will delay our receipt of increased sales revenues, which, when coupled with the increased costs and expenses of our expansion, could cause a decline in our profits. Our plans to finance, develop, and expand our facilities will be subject to the many risks inherent in the rapid expansion of a high growth business enterprise, including unanticipated design, construction, regulatory and operating problems, and the significant risks commonly associated with implementing a marketing strategy in changing and expanding markets. These projects may not become operational within their estimated time frames and budgets as projected at the time the Company enters into a particular agreement, or at all. In addition, the Company may develop projects as joint ventures in an effort to reduce its financial commitment to individual projects. The significant expenditures required to expand our production plants may not ultimately result in increased profits. 10 Our business and operations are growing rapidly. If we fail to effectively manage our operation, our business and operating results could be harmed. To date we have experienced, and continue to experience, rapid growth in our operations. This has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management, and on our operational and financial infrastructure. If we do not effectively manage our operations, the quality of our products and services will suffer, which would negatively affect our operating results. If the necessary funding can be obtained, we will be able to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. The complexity of this undertaking means that we are likely to face many challenges, some of which are not yet foreseeable. Problems may occur with our raw material acquisition, with the roll-out of efficient manufacturing processes, and with our ability to sell our products to our customers. If we are not able to obtain the necessary funding and operate efficiently, our business plan may fall short of its goals, and our ability to manage our growth could be hurt. We operate in a highly competitive marketplace, which could adversely affect our sales and financial condition. We compete on the basis of quality, price, product availability and security of supply, product development and customer service. Some competitors are larger than us in certain markets and may have greater financial resources that allow them to be in a better position to withstand changes in the industry. Our competitors may introduce new products based on more competitive alternative technologies that may be causing us to lose customers which would result in a decline in our sales volume and earnings. Our customers demand high quality and low cost products and services. The cost and availability of energy and strategic raw materials may continue to deteriorate domestically while improving in the international market, thus advantaging our foreign competition. Any such change in the global market could adversely impact the demand for our products. Competition could cause us to lose market share and certain lines of business, or increase expenditures or reduce pricing, each of which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. An inability to protect our intellectual property rights could reduce the value of our products, services and brand. Our unique technologies and techniques are important assets for us. We have applied to the Chinese government for intellectual property right protection for some of the technologies that we own. However, this legal effort may sometimes not be sufficient or effective, due to the lack of effective legal enforcement in China. Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business or our ability to compete. In addition, since protection of our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming, any unauthorized use of our to-be-patented technologies could increase our cost of business and eventually harm our operating results. Moreover, since we only registered intellectual property rights for our technologies in China, our technologies may not be well protected in other countries in which our products may be sold in the future. An increase in raw material prices could increase Harbin Xinda’s costs and decrease its profits. Changes in the cost of raw materials could significantly affect Harbin Xinda’s business. Since cost for raw materials constitute a substantial part of our product price, increase in the cost of raw materials will decrease our profit margin. Although we may offset such deduction of our profit by increasing the price for our products, unforeseeable events in the market may occur to prevent the effectiveness of this method. We also rely on two major suppliers to provide such raw materials. Failure to maintain business relationship with these two major suppliers may make the raw materials inaccessible, and thus hurt our operation result. Our performance and planned growth depend on raw material supply and related costs. We rely on Mr. Jie Han, Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, for the management of our business, and the loss of his services could significantly harm our business and prospects. We depend, to a large extent, on the abilities and participation of our current management team, but have a particular reliance upon Mr. Jie Han, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and President, for the direction of our business. The loss of the services of Mr. Han for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. We cannot assure you that the services of Mr. Han will continue to be available to us, or that we will be able to find a suitable replacement for Mr. Han. We can not guarantee Mr. Han’s continuing to manage the Company. We do not have key man insurance on Mr. Han, and if he were to die and we were unable to replace him for a prolonged period of time, we could be unable to carry out our long-term business plan, and our future prospects for growth, and our business, could be harmed. 11 Difficulties with hiring, employee training and other labor issues could disrupt our operations. We may not be able to successfully hire and train new team members or integrate those team members into the programs and policies of the Company. Any such difficulties would reduce our operating efficiency and increase our costs of operations. Increased environmental regulation in China could increase our costs of operation. Certain processes utilized in the production of modified plastics result in toxic by-products. To date, the Chinese government has imposed only limited regulation on the production of these by-products, and enforcement of the regulations has been sparse. Recently, however, there is a substantial increase in focus on the Chinese environment, which has inspired considerable new regulation. Because Harbin Xinda plans to export plastics to the U.S. and Europe in coming years, Harbin Xinda has developed sufficient safeguards in its manufacturing processes to assure compliance with the environmental regulations imposed by European and U.S regulators. This compliance regimen brings us into compliance with all Chinese environmental regulations. Additional regulation, however, could increase our cost of doing business, which would impair our profitability. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management and financial controls in China. The People’s Republic of China has only recently begun to adopt the management and financial reporting concepts and practices that investors in the United States are familiar with. We may have difficulty in hiring and retaining employees in China who have the experience necessary to implement the kind of management and financial controls that are expected of a United States public company. If we cannot establish such controls, we may experience difficulty in collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet U.S. standards. We may incur significant costs to ensure compliance with U.S. corporate governance and accounting requirements. We may incur significant costs associated with our public company reporting requirements, costs associated with newly applicable corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley, and other rules implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission. We expect all of these applicable rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We also expect that these applicable rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors, on committees of our board of directors or as executive officers. As a public company, we are required to comply with rules and regulations of the SEC, including expanded disclosure, accelerated reporting requirements and more complex accounting rules. This will continue to require additional cost management resources. We will need to continue to implement additional finance and accounting systems, procedures and controls as we grow to satisfy these reporting requirements. In addition, we may need to hire additional legal and accounting staff with appropriate experience and technical knowledge, and we cannot assure you that if additional staffing is necessary that we will be able to do so in a timely fashion. If we are unable to complete the required annual assessment as to the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in the future, we could incur significant costs to become compliant. We rely on highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire qualified personnel, we may not be able to grow effectively. Our performance largely depends on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new technology developers and to retain and motivate our existing contractors. We have limited business insurance coverage. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products, and do not, to our knowledge, offer business liability insurance. As a result, we do not have any business liability insurance coverage for our operations. Moreover, while business disruption insurance is available, we have determined that the risks of disruption and cost of the insurance are such that we do not require it at this time. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. 12 Risks related to an investment in our common stock Our Chief Executive Officer has a large degree of control on us through his position and stock ownership and his interests may differ from other stockholders. Our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Jie Han, has options on shares of XD Engineering, which is a major shareholder of China XD Plastics. As a result, Mr. Han will be able to influence the outcome of stockholder votes on various matters, including the election of directors and extraordinary corporate transactions such as business combinations. Mr. Han’s interests may differ from that of other stockholders. Risks related to Series B Preferred Stock. There are now 1,000,000 Series B Preferred Stock issued to China XD Plastics with 40% of the total voting power of the Company’s common stock put together and other consent rights on mergers and acquisitions, significant acquisition or disposition of assets and change of control, among others. This gives China XD Plastics significant voting power. Such voting power may enable China XD Plastics to block actions that may benefit the common stockholders thus reduce the value of their holdings. We do not intend to pay cash dividends to common stockholders in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. We do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future but will review this policy as circumstances dictate. Should we decide in the future to do so, as a holding company, our ability to pay dividends and meet other obligations depends upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our operating subsidiaries based in the PRC. Our operating subsidiaries, from time to time, may be subject to restrictions on its ability to make distributions to us, including restrictions on the conversion of local currency into U.S. dollars or other hard currency and other regulatory restrictions. See “Risks related to doing business in the People’s Republic of China” above. Our common stock may be subject to the Penny Stock Regulations. Our common stock is, and may be subject to the SEC’s “penny stock” rules to the extent that the price falls below $5.00 per share. Those rules, which require delivery of a schedule explaining the penny stock market and the associated risks before any sale, may further limit your ability to sell your shares. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define “penny stock” to be an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share. Our common stock, when and if a trading market develops, may fall within the definition of penny stock and subject to rules that impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell such securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally those with assets in excess of $1,000,000, or annual incomes exceeding $200,000 or $300,000, together with their spouse). For transactions covered by these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchase of such securities and have received the purchaser’s prior written consent to the transaction. Additionally, for any transaction, other than exempt transactions, involving a penny stock, the rules require the delivery, prior to the transaction, of a risk disclosure document mandated by the Commission relating to the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market-maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer’s presumed control over the market. Finally, monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Consequently, the “penny stock” rules may restrict the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and may affect the ability of investors to sell their common stock in the secondary market. Our common stock is illiquid and subject to price volatility unrelated to our operations. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including market perception of our ability to achieve our planned growth, quarterly operating results of other companies in the same industry, trading volume in our common stock, changes in general conditions in the economy and the financial markets or other developments affecting our competitors or us. In addition, the stock market is subject to extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and could have the same effect on our common stock. 13 A large number of shares of common stock will be issuable for future sale which will dilute the ownership percentage of our current holders of common stock. The availability for public resale of those shares may depress our stock price. Also as a result, there will be a significant number of new shares of common stock on the market in addition to the current public float. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, and the existence of warrants to purchase shares of common stock at prices that may be below the then current market price of the common stock, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of our equity securities. Enforcement against us or our directors and officers may be difficult. Because our principal assets are located outside of the U.S. and some or all our directors and officers, both present and future, reside outside of the U.S., it may be difficult for you to enforce your rights based on U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and some directors or to enforce a U.S. court judgment against us or them in the PRC. In addition, our operating company is located in the PRC and substantially all of its assets are located outside of the U.S. It may therefore be difficult for investors in the U.S. to enforce their legal rights based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. Federal securities laws against us in the courts of either the U.S. or the PRC and, even if civil judgments are obtained in U.S. courts, to enforce such judgments in PRC courts. Further, it is unclear if extradition treaties now in effect between the U.S. and the PRC would permit effective enforcement against us or our officers and directors of criminal penalties under the U.S. Federal securities laws or otherwise. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 