ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, readers should carefully consider the following important factors. These factors, among others, in some cases have affected, and in the future could affect, our financial condition and results of operations and could cause our future results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements that appear in this on Form 10-K or that we have made or will make elsewhere. The global economic crisis could further impair the automotive industry thereby limiting demand for our products. The continuation or intensification of the recent global economic crisis arising from the European debt crisis may adversely impact our business, and the businesses of our customers. Our specialized plastics are sold to automobile parts manufacturers and distributors. The recent global economic crisis harmed most industries and has been detrimental to the automotive industry. Since virtually all of our sales are made to auto industry participants, our sales and business operations are dependent on the financial health of the automotive industry and could suffer if our customers experience, or continue to experience, a downturn in their business. Presently, it is unclear whether and to what extent the economic stimulus measures facilitated by the European Union and other governments throughout the world will mitigate the effects of the crisis on the automotive industry and other industries that affect our business. We concentrate our operations primarily in the automotive industry, therefore, a contraction in automotive sales and production could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. We develop, manufacture, and distribute modified plastic, primarily for use in automobiles. Automotive sales and production are highly cyclical and depend, among other things, on general economic conditions and consumer spending and preferences (which can be affected by a number of issues including fuel costs and the availability of consumer financing). As the volume of automotive production fluctuates, the demand for our products also fluctuates. While the China automotive sales and production maintained growth momentum in 2010 and continued to grow in 2011, however the growth rate was significantly down from previous years. A contraction in automotive sales and production could harm our results of operations and financial condition. Consequently, we are exposed to the risks of adverse developments affecting the auto industry to a greater extent than if our operations were dispersed over a variety of industries. The withdrawal of preferential government policies and the tightening control over the Chinese automotive industry and automobile purchase restrictions imposed in certain major cities may limit market demand for our products. In 2011, Chinese government terminated two preferential policies for its automotive industry: (1) vehicles with 1.6L or lower air displacement were given a 50% discount in purchase tax and (2) the vehicles sold in rural area were given a government subsidy. Since 2011, in order to resolve the extreme traffic congestion, the Beijing government has been implementing the vehicle purchase quota policy, which limits the maximum vehicles sold in Beijing per month to 20,000. Other cities which have begun to show signs of traffic congestion have also begun to implement similar measures to control traffic congestion, including the limited automobile licenses policy implemented in Shanghai and the imposition of congestion charges in Shenzhen. The termination of two nation-wide preferential policies negatively affected consumer demand for new vehicles, and local restrictive measures over automobile purchases in major cities may result in the reduction in the sale of vehicles nationwide. According to Rao Da, secretary-general of China Passenger Vehicle Association as reported on February 3, 2012, China’s total new automobile sales to end-users in 2011 were down 7 percent compared to those in 2010. The national and local policies over the Chinese automotive industry may continue to impact market demand for automobiles in 2012 and eventually result in a reduction in our product sales. 22 The Chinese automotive industry's growth is slowing after the rapid growth since 2000 and such slowdown may adversely affect the market demand for our products. There is a direct correlation between our business and automobile production volume and sales, which are dependent on economic policies and market sentiment. The Chinese automotive industry had been rapidly growing for a decade prior to 2011. However, inflation, higher interest rates, tighter bank lending, lifting of consumer subsidies and buying restrictions in congested cities all contributed to a more modest environment in 2011, resulting in the sharp slow-down in automobile sales volume growth rate to 3%, compared to 46% in 2009 and 34% in 2010, representing the lowest growth rate in the past 13 years, according to the latest data issued by China Association of Automobile Manufacturers. Any significant reduction in automobile production and sales would have a material and adverse effect on our business. There can be no assurance that the market conditions, government policies and other factors leading to the existing slowdown in demand for automobiles will not continue. The decline in demand for automobiles would directly and adversely affect demand for our products and hence our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event we do not comply with our obligations under our loan agreements with Longjiang Bank and Bank of Communication, which loans are secured by our land use rights, certain buildings and machinery, our business may be adversely affected and disrupted. Harbin Xinda has entered into short term loan agreements with Longjiang Bank and Bank of Communication. The loans are secured by (i) Harbin Xinda’s land use right, buildings and machinery, and (ii) equipment of Harbin Xinda High-Tech Co., Ltd. (“Xinda High-Tech”), a related party as collateral and also guaranteed by Mr. Jie Han and his spouse. Although we are in compliance and intend to continue to be in compliance with the payment terms and our other obligations under the loan agreements, we may not be able to repay these loans. In the event of a default on these obligations, Longjiang Bank and Bank of Communication may seize control over the pledged collateral, as a result of which our business may be adversely affected and disrupted. A large percentage of our sales revenue is derived from sales to a limited number of distributors and a limited number of customers, and our business will suffer if sales to these customers decline. A significant portion of our sales revenue historically has been derived from a limited number of distributors. Our top four and three distributors accounted for approximately 73.7% of our revenues in 2011 and approximately 73.3% in 2010, respectively. Any significant reduction in demand for modified plastics by any of these major customers or our distributors and any decrease in demand of products by its customers could harm our sales and business operations, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on a limited number of suppliers. While we have identified alternative sources for the materials and equipment we use, a temporary disruption in our ability to procure necessary materials and equipment could adversely impact our sales in future periods. Materials constitute a substantial part of the cost of our products. We seek to reduce the cost of raw materials by dealing with major suppliers. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company purchased approximately 98.1% of the Company’s raw materials from three major suppliers. The Company purchased equipment from one major supplier, which accounted for 99.7% of the Company's equipment purchases for the year ended December 31, 2011. We believe the relationship with our suppliers is satisfactory and that alternative suppliers are available if relationships falter or existing suppliers should become unable to keep up with our requirements. However, there can be no assurance that our current or future suppliers will be able to meet our requirements on commercially reasonable terms or within scheduled delivery times. An interruption of our arrangements with suppliers could cause a delay in the production of our products for timely delivery to distributors and customers which could result in a loss of sales in future periods. 23 If we are subject to product quality or liability claims relating to our products, we may incur significant litigation expenses and management may have to devote significant time defending such claims, which if determined adversely to us, could require us to pay significant damage awards. Although we have adopted certain internal measures to supervise and examine the quality of our products, we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to our product quality. The defense of these proceedings and claims could be both costly and time-consuming and significantly divert the efforts and resources of our management. An adverse determination in any such proceedings could subject us to significant liability. In addition, any such proceeding, even if ultimately determined in our favor, could damage our market reputation and prevent us from maintaining or increasing sales and market share. Protracted litigation could also result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase of our products. We have limited insurance coverage on our assets in China and any uninsured loss or damage to our property, business disruption or litigation may result in our incurring substantial costs. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited insurance products. Other than automobile insurance on certain vehicles and property and casualty insurance for some of our assets such as factories and equipments we do not have insurance coverage on our other assets or inventories, nor do we have any business interruption, product liability or litigation insurance for our operations in China. We have determined that the costs of insuring for these risks and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance on commercially reasonable terms make it impractical for us to have such insurance. Any uninsured loss or damage to property, business disruption or litigation may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of our resources, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and/or liquidity. SAFE regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC individuals may increase our administrative burden and restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activity. If our shareholders and beneficial owners who are PRC individuals fail to make any required applications, registrations and filings under such regulations, we may be unable to distribute profits and may become subject to liability under PRC laws. The State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or “SAFE”, has promulgated several regulations, including Notice on Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Administration for PRC Residents to Engage in Financing and Inbound Investment via Oversea Special Purpose Vehicles, or the “Circular No. 75,” issued in November 2005 and certain implementation rules issued in recent years, requiring registrations with, and approvals from, PRC government authorities in connection with direct or indirect offshore investment activities by PRC residents and citizens individuals. In May 2011, SAFE enacted “Circular of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange on Printing and Distributing on the Operating Rules for the Administration of Foreign Exchange with Respect to the Financing and Round-tripping Investment of Domestic Residents via Overseas Special Purpose Companies” (“Circular No. 19”). Circular No. 19 does not change the registration requirements imposed by Circular No. 75, but clarifies and simplifies the registration procedures. These regulations apply to our shareholders and beneficial owners who are PRC individuals. 24 The Circular No. 75 requires PRC individuals to register with relevant local branches of SAFE for their establishment or control of any oversea special purpose vehicles, or the “SPVs,” or the contribution of assets of or their equity interests in any domestic company to any SPV, or any material changes of the SPVs. Failure to make the required SAFE registration may result in penalties including that our PRC subsidiaries may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the SPV and from paying the SPV proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the PRC subsidiaries. We have requested our shareholders and beneficial owners who are PRC individuals to make the necessary applications and filings as required under these regulations and under any implementing rules or approval practices that may be established under these regulations. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Mr. Han, our chief executive officer’s beneficial ownerships in China XD and XD. Engineering Plastics Company Limited respectively have been registered with local SAFE in accordance with Circular No. 75 and Circular No. 19. However we cannot assure you that the rest of our shareholders and beneficial owners who are PRC individuals have timely updated their registrations with SAFE. The failure or inability of our PRC shareholders and beneficial owners make any required registrations may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, as a result of which our acquisition strategy and business operations and our ability to distribute profits to you could be materially and adversely affected. On December 25, 2006, the People’s Bank of China issued the Administration Measures on Individual Foreign Exchange Control, and the corresponding Implementing Rules were issued by SAFE on January 5, 2007, both of these regulations became effective on February 1, 2007. According to these regulations, all foreign exchange matters relating to employee stock holding plans, share option plans or similar plans in which PRC citizens will participate require approval from SAFE or its authorized branch. On March 28, 2007, SAFE issued the Application Procedure of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plan or Stock Option Plan of Overseas-Listed Company, or the Stock Option Rule. Under the Stock Option Rule, Chinese citizens who were granted share options or shares by an offshore listed company were required, through a Chinese agent or Chinese subsidiary of the offshore listed company, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures. We are an offshore listed company and, as a result, we and our Chinese employees who had been granted share options or shares under our existing share incentive plan were subject to the Stock Option Rule. We did not obtain a registration with the local SAFE in Heilongjiang in connection with the options we granted to our PRC employees under our existing share incentive plan, because local SAFE in Heilongjiang orally informed us that we were not required to obtain such registration with it, and that we only needed to apply for verification in connection with establishment of a foreign exchange account and purchase of foreign currency when our employees planned to sell incentive shares or to exercise options. In February 2012, SAFE promulgated the Notice on Issues concerning the Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Stock Incentive Plan of Overseas Publicly-Listed Company, or the New Stock Option Rules, which replaced and substituted the Stock Option Rule. According to the New Stock Option Rules, if a PRC resident participates in any stock incentive plan of an overseas publicly-listed company, a qualified PRC domestic agent must, among other things, file on behalf of such participant an application with SAFE to conduct the SAFE registration with respect to such stock incentive plan and obtain approval for an annual allowance with respect to the purchase of foreign exchange in connection with the exercise or sale of stock options or stock such participant holds. Such participating PRC resident’s foreign exchange income received from the sale of stock and dividends distributed by the overseas publicly-listed company must be fully remitted into a specific domestic foreign currency account opened and managed by such PRC agent first, before distribution to such participants. 25 We are an offshore listed company and, as a result, any Chinese employee, or foreign employee who resides in PRC more than one year consecutively, of our PRC subsidiaries, including without limitation, directors, supervisors and other senior management staffs of our PRC subsidiaries, who have been granted share options or shares under our existing share incentive plan are subject to the New Stock Option Rules. We will make an application with local SAFE in Heilongjiang to obtain a registration in respect of our incentive share plan in accordance with the New Stock Option Rules. If our PRC subsidiaries or their qualified employees fail to comply with these regulations, including the New Stock Option Rules, they may be subject to fines or other legal sanctions imposed by SAFE or other Chinese government authorities. Under the PRC EIT Law, we and/or Favor Sea BVI may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of the PRC. Such classification could result in tax consequences to us, our non-PRC resident shareholders and Favor Sea BVI. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress approved and promulgated a new tax law, the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or “EIT Law,” which took effect on January 1, 2008. Under the EIT Law, enterprises are classified as resident enterprises and non-resident enterprises. An enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” within China is considered a “resident enterprise,” and subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate on global income. The implementing rules of the EIT Law define “de facto management bodies” as a managing body that in practice exercises “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise; however, due to the short history of the EIT Law and lack of applicable legal precedents, it remains unclear whether the PRC tax authorities would deem our managing body as being located within China, or whether we or our non-PRC subsidiaries would be deemed as resident enterprises of the PRC. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we, Favor Sea Limited, a British Virgin Islands corporation (“Favor Sea BVI”) and/or Hong Kong Engineering Plastics Company Limited, a Hong Kong corporation (“HK Engineering Plastics”), are “resident enterprises” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of PRC tax consequences could follow. We, Favor Sea BVI and/or HK Engineering Plastics may be subject to enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our, Favor Sea BVI and/or HK Engineering Plastics’s worldwide taxable income, as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. However, under the EIT Law and its implementing rules, dividends paid between “qualified resident enterprises” are exempt from enterprise income tax. As a result, if we, Favor Sea BVI and HK Engineering Plastics are treated as PRC “qualified resident enterprises,” all dividends paid from Harbin Xinda to HK Engineering Plastics, from HK Engineering Plastics to Favor Sea BVI and from Favor Sea BVI to us may be exempt from PRC tax. On April 22, 2009, State Administration of Taxation (the “SAT”) enacted “Circular of the State Administration of Taxation on Issues Concerning the Identification of Chinese-Controlled Overseas Registered Enterprises as Resident Enterprises in Accordance With the Actual Standards of Organizational Management”. On July 27, 2011, SAT enacted “Announcement of the State Administration of Taxation on Printing and Distributing the Administrative Measures for Income Tax on Chinese-controlled Resident Enterprises Incorporated Overseas (Trial Implementation)”. Under those two rules, either the enterprises may request the PRC tax authorities to determine their “resident enterprises” identity or the tax authority may investigate and determine an enterprise’s identity. The target enterprises under those two rules are foreign registered companies controlled by the PRC companies, however, the PRC tax authority may determine if a foreign registered company controlled by the PRC individual(s) is a “resident enterprise” or not by reference to those two rules. 26 If we, Favor Sea BVI and HK Engineering Plastics are treated as PRC “non-resident enterprises” under the EIT Law, then dividends that HK Engineering Plastics receives from Harbin Xinda (assuming such dividends were considered sourced within the PRC) (i) may be subject to a 5% PRC withholding tax, if the Arrangement between the Mainland of China and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income (the “PRC-HK Tax Treaty”) were applicable, or (ii) if the PRC-HK Tax Treaty does not apply (i.e., because the PRC tax authorities may deem HK Engineering Plastics to be a conduit not entitled to treaty benefits), may be subject to a 10% PRC withholding tax. Similarly, if we and Favor Sea BVI were treated as PRC “non-resident enterprises” under the EIT Law, and HK Engineering Plastics were treated as a PRC “resident enterprise” under the EIT Law, then dividends that Favor Sea BVI receive from HK Engineering Plastics (assuming such dividends were considered sourced within the PRC) may be subject to a 10% PRC withholding tax; if we were treated as a PRC “non-resident enterprise” under the EIT Law, and Favor Sea BVI and HK Engineering Plastics were treated as PRC “resident enterprises” under the EIT Law, then dividends that we receive from Favor Sea BVI (assuming such dividends were considered sourced within the PRC) may be subject to a 10% PRC withholding tax. Any such taxes on dividends could materially reduce the amount of dividends, if any, we could pay to our shareholders. Finally, if we were deemed as a “resident enterprise,” the new “resident enterprise” classification could result in a situation in which an up to 10% PRC tax is imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC shareholders that are not PRC tax “resident enterprises”. In such event, we may be required to withhold an up to 10% PRC tax on any dividends paid to non-PRC resident enterprise shareholders. Our non-PRC resident enterprise shareholders also may be responsible for paying PRC tax at a rate of 10% on any gain realized from the sale or transfer of our ordinary shares in certain circumstances if such income is considered PRC-sourced income by relevant tax authorities. We would not, however, have an obligation to withhold PRC tax with respect to such gain. On December 15, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation (“SAT”) released Circular Guoshuihan No. 698 (“Circular 698”) that reinforces the taxation of non-listed equity transfers by non-resident enterprises through overseas holding vehicles. Circular 698 is retroactively effective from January 1, 2008. Circular 698 addresses indirect share transfer as well as other issues. According to Circular 698, where a foreign (non-PRC resident) investor who indirectly holds shares in a PRC resident enterprise through a non-PRC offshore holding company indirectly transfers equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise by selling the shares of the offshore holding company, and the latter is located in a country or jurisdiction where the effective tax burden is less than 12.5% or where the offshore income of its residents is not taxable, the foreign investor is required to provide the PRC tax authority in charge of that PRC resident enterprise with certain relevant information within 30 days of the transfer. The tax authorities in charge will evaluate the offshore transaction for tax purposes. In the event that the tax authorities determine that such transfer is abusing forms of business organization lack of reasonable commercial purpose or for purpose of avoidance of PRC income tax liability, the PRC tax authorities will have the power to re-assess the nature of the equity transfer under the doctrine of substance over form. If the relevant tax authority’s challenge of a transfer is successful, it may disregard the existence of the offshore holding company that is used for tax planning purposes and require seller to pay PRC tax on the capital gain from such transfer. Since Circular 698 has a short history, there is uncertainty as to its application. We (or a foreign investor) may become at risk of being taxed under Circular 698 and may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with Circular 698 or to establish that we (or such foreign investor) should not be taxed under Circular 698, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations (or such foreign investor’s investment in us). If any such PRC taxes apply, a non-PRC resident shareholder may be entitled to a reduced rate of PRC taxes under an applicable income tax treaty and/or a foreign tax credit against such shareholder’s domestic income tax liability (subject to applicable conditions and limitations). Prospective investors should consult with their own tax advisors regarding the applicability of any such taxes, the effects of any applicable income tax treaties, and any available foreign tax credits. 27 PRC regulations relating to mergers and acquisitions of domestic enterprises by foreign investors may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, namely, the PRC Ministry of Commerce, or the MOFCOM, the State Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, or the SASAC, the State Administration for Taxation, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, and the SAFE, jointly adopted the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Rule, which became effective on September 8, 2006. The M&A Rule purports, among other things, (i) to require any PRC company, enterprise or individual that intends to merge or acquire its domestic affiliated company in the name of an overseas company which it lawfully established or controls, to apply for MOFCOM’s examination on and approval for the proposed merger or acquisition; and (ii) to require SPVs, formed for overseas listing purposes through acquisitions of PRC domestic companies and controlled by PRC companies or individuals, to obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to publicly listing their securities on an overseas stock exchange. Interpretation and enforcement of the M&A Rule in terms of offshore listing by SPVs always remain uncertain. As a result, we are not sure whether the M&A Rule would require us or our entities in China to obtain the approval from either the MOFCOM or the CSRC or any other regulatory agencies in connection with the transaction contemplated by the share transfer contracts which were entered into between Mr. Jie Han, Mr. Qingwei Ma and Hong Kong Engineering Plastics Company Limited on June 26, 2008 , the transaction contemplated in the Agreement and Plan of Merger entered into by and among NB Telecom, Favor Sea (BVI) and the shareholders of Favor Sea (BVI) on December 24, 2008 (detailed description of both of the two aforesaid transactions and relevant contracts can be found in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, filed on April 14, 2010) the adoption and performance of the option agreement dated May 16, 2008 between Ms. Piao and Mr. Han. Further, if the PRC government finds that we or our Chinese stockholders did not obtain the MOFCOM or CSRC approval, which the MOFCOM or CSRC may think we should have obtained before executing the aforesaid agreements, we could be subject to severe penalties. The M&A Rule does not stipulate the specific penalty terms, so we are not able to predict what penalties we may face, and how such penalties will affect our business operations or future strategy. Our business will suffer if we cannot obtain or maintain necessary permits or approvals. Under PRC laws, we are required to obtain from various PRC governmental authorities certain permits and licenses in relation to the operation of our business. These permits and licenses are subject to periodic renewal and/or reassessment by the relevant PRC government authorities and the standards of compliance required in relation thereto may from time to time be subject to change. We cannot assure you that we can always obtain, maintain or renew all the permits and licenses in a timely manner. Additionally, any changes in compliance standards, or any new laws or regulations that may prohibit or render it more restrictive for us to conduct our business or increase our compliance costs may adversely affect our operations or profitability. Any failure by us to obtain, maintain or renew necessary licenses, permits and approvals, could subject us to fines and other penalties and limit the business we could conduct, which could have a material adverse effect on the operation of our business. In addition, we may not be able to carry on business without such permits and licenses being renewed and/or reassessed. Pursuant to PRC laws and regulations, construction or expansion of a building or a production facility is subject to various permits and approvals from different government authorities. In connection with the construction of Harbin Xinda’s factory and production facilities, which has already been completed and put into operation, we obtained a project approval from Administration Committee of Harbin Economic and Technological & High-tech Development Zone and an approval for the environmental impact assessment report on the construction project of Harbin Xinda in 2003. However, certain other necessary permits relating to the construction and operation of Harbin Xinda’s factory and production facilities are outstanding. Failure to obtain all necessary approvals/permits may subject us to various penalties, such as fines or being required to vacate from the facilities where we currently operate our business. 28 Increased environmental regulation in China could increase our costs of operation. Certain processes utilized in the production of modified plastics result in toxic by-products. To date, the Chinese government has imposed only limited regulation on the production of these by-products, and enforcement of the regulations has been sparse. Recently, however, there is a substantial increase in focus on the Chinese environment, which has inspired considerable new regulation. Because Harbin Xinda plans to export plastics to the U.S. and Europe in coming years, Harbin Xinda has developed certain safeguards in its manufacturing processes to assure compliance with the environmental protection standard ISO/TS16949 Quality Assurance Standard, the European Union’s RoHS Standards and Germany’s PAHs Standards. Furthermore, we are in the process of applying for the U.S.’s UL Safety Certification, ISO14001 Environmental Management System Certification and OHSAS18001 Occupational Health Management System Certification. This compliance regimen brings us into compliance with all Chinese environmental regulations. Additional regulation, however, could increase our cost of doing business, which would impair our profitability. We may fail to develop and maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting. As a result, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud and current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in the integrity of our financial reports, which could harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. Prior to our listing on the US stock exchange, we were a private company with all business operations within China. Our accounting and reporting system was designed to satisfy local statutory requirements and internal management needs. We had limited accounting personnel and resources to address internal control over financial reporting for the purpose of compliance with U.S. GAAP and SEC reporting requirements. Management concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting were ineffective as of December 31, 2011, due to a material weakness and a significant deficiency. The material weakness relates to insufficient competent accounting personal in applying U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, in particular, accounting for Series D preferred stock and application of two class method in the calculation of earnings per share. The significant deficiency relates to our lack of tax expertise to review the income taxes of the entities in the People’s Republic of China (the “PRC”) and the United States of America (the “USA”). Our management is committed to strengthening our internal controls and complying with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX 404”). In 2011, we continued to implement a plan, pursuant to which (1) our accounting staff obtained external training of US GAAP and SEC reporting by qualified entity in 2011, (2) we have hired a third party SOX 404 compliance consultant to help us improve our internal controls system, and (3) we continue to seek senior qualified people with requisite expertise and knowledge to help improve our internal control procedures. However, we cannot be certain that these measures we have undertaken will ensure that we will maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Furthermore, if we are able to rapidly grow our business, the internal controls that we will need may become more complex, and significantly more resources may be required to ensure our internal controls remain effective. Failure to implement required controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we fail to maintain an effective internal control system, our stockholders and other potential investors may lose confidence in our business operations and the integrity of our financial statements, and may be discouraged from future investments in our company, which may delay or hinder any future business development or expansion plans if we are unable to raise funds in future financings, and our current stockholders may choose to dispose of the shares of common stock they own in our company, which could have a negative impact on our stock price. In addition, non-compliance with SOX 404 could subject us to a variety of administrative sanctions, including the suspension of trading of our stock on the NASDAQ Global Market, ineligibility for listing on other national securities exchanges, and the inability of registered broker-dealers to make a market in our common stock, which could further reduce our stock price. 29 We may be subject to or liable to US taxes, interest and penalties. Because we do not generate any income in the U.S., we do not believe that we owe U.S. federal income taxes for the taxable years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. However, there can be no assurance that the IRS will agree with this position, and therefore we ultimately could be held liable for U.S. federal income taxes, interest and penalties. Our inability or failure to protect our intellectual property rights may significantly and materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Protection of our proprietary processes, methods and other technology is important to our business. We generally rely on a combination of the patent, trademark and copyright laws of the PRC and laws protecting trade secret in the PRC, as well as licenses and non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements, to protect our intellectual property rights. The patent, trademark and copyright laws of the PRC, as well as laws protecting trade secret in the PRC, may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights may result in the loss of valuable proprietary technologies. Additionally, some of our technologies are not covered by any patent or patent application and, even if a patent application has been filed, it may not result in an issued patent. If patents are issued to us, those patents may not provide meaningful protection against competitors or against competitive technologies. In addition, upon the expiration of patents issued to us, we will be unable to prevent our competitors from using or introducing products using the formerly-patented technology. As a result, we may be faced with increased competition and our results of operations may be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that our intellectual property rights will not be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. We also rely upon unpatented proprietary manufacturing expertise, continuing technological innovation and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. While we generally enter into confidentiality/non-disclosure agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, we cannot assure you that our confidentiality/non-disclosure agreements will not be breached, that they will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets and proprietary manufacturing expertise or that adequate remedies will be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets or manufacturing expertise. Our intellectual property rights may be challenged or infringed upon by third parties or we may be unable to maintain, renew or enter into new license agreements that are important to our business with third-party owners of intellectual property on reasonable terms. We could also face patent infringement claims from our competitors or others alleging that our processes or products infringe on their proprietary technologies. If we are found to be infringing on the proprietary technology of others, we may be liable for damages, and we may be required to change our processes, to redesign our products partially or completely, to pay to use the technology of others or to stop using certain technologies or producing the infringing product(s) entirely. Even if we ultimately prevail in an infringement suit, the existence of the suit could prompt customers to switch to products that are not the subject of infringement suits. We may not prevail in any intellectual property litigation and such litigation may result in significant legal costs or otherwise impede our ability to produce and distribute key products. 30 We may be unable to renew the leases for our factories on acceptable terms or these leases may be terminated. As of December 31, 2011, Harbin Xinda operated three separate factories located at 9 Qinling Road (the “Qinling Road Factory”), at 9 North Dalian Road (the “Dalian Road Factory”) and at 9 Jiangnan First Road (the “Jiangnan Road Factory”). Harbin Xinda owns the titles to the land and premises of the Qinling Road Factory. Harbin Xinda leases land and premises of the Dalian Road Factory from Xinda High-Tech. In addition, the Xinda Engineering Center leased an office building at the Dalian Road Factory from Xinda High-Tech. Harbin Xinda is in the process of acquiring the titles to the land and premises at Jiangnan Road Factory. Harbin Xinda and the Xinda Engineering Center’s leases will expire on April 30, 2012 and May 31, 2013 respectively. If we are unable to renew our lease on acceptable terms in due course or if our lease is terminated by the lessor unilaterally for the Dalian Road Factory or acquire the titles to the land and premises at Jiannan Road Factory: · we may be unable to find a new property with the amenities and in the location we require for our factories, which may result in a factory closure; · we may have to relocate to a less desirable location; · we may have to relocate to a location with facilities that do not meet our requirements; · we may incur significant costs in connection with identifying, securing and relocating to a replacement location; or · our factories may experience significant disruption in operations and, as a result, we may be unable to produce products during the period of disruption. Any of these events may materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. A sharp increase in the demand or the price for raw materials may have a negative impact on our results of operations if we are unable to pass on increases in the cost of raw materials to our customers on a timely basis. The total cost of raw materials made up approximately 98% of our cost of revenues in both 2011 and 2010. Currently, plastic resins are mainly used as a raw material in China’s plastic parts molding industry. The market prices of plastic resins may fluctuate due to changes in supply and demand conditions in that industry. Any sudden shortage of supply or significant increase in demand of plastic resins and additives may result in higher market prices and thereby increase our cost of sales. The prices of plastic resins and additives are, to a certain extent, affected by the price movement of crude oil. The international market prices for crude oil increased in 2011 compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 and continued to rise during the first two months of 2012, which caused the price of raw materials to increase. In addition, under the terms of our customer agreements, we can only increase the sales price for our products if the cost of our raw materials increases by more than 5%. As a result, our inability to increase the selling price of our products to cover increases of less than 5%, may limit our profitability. 31 Our assets are primarily located in China. So any dividends or proceeds from liquidation are subject to the approval of the relevant Chinese government agencies. Our assets are primarily located inside China. Under the laws governing FIEs in China, dividend distribution and liquidation are allowed but subject to special procedures under the relevant laws and rules. Any dividend payment will be subject to the decision of the Board of Directors and subject to foreign exchange rules governing such repatriation. Any liquidation is subject to both the relevant government agency’s approval and supervision as well the foreign exchange control. This may generate additional risk for our investors in case of dividend payment or liquidation. Governmental control of currency conversions may affect the value of your investment. All of our revenue is earned in Renminbi, and any future restrictions on currency conversions may limit our ability to use revenue generated in Renminbi to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars. Although the PRC government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the Renminbi for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign-invested enterprises like us may buy, sell or remit foreign currencies only after providing valid commercial documents at a PRC banks specifically authorized to conduct foreign-exchange business. In addition, conversion of Renminbi for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in the PRC, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign-exchange accounts for capital account items. There is no guarantee that PRC regulatory authorities will not impose additional restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi. Such restrictions could prevent us from distributing dividends and thereby reduce the value of our stock. The fluctuation of the exchange rate of the Renminbi against the dollar could reduce the value of your investment. The value of our common stock will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars we receive from an offering of our securities into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. Dollar could reduce the value in Renminbi of our funds. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our common stock or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries in China would be reduced. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. Dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in an appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar of approximately 28.8% from July 21, 2005 to December 31, 2011. While the international reaction to the Renminbi revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. Dollar. We receive all of our revenues in Renminbi. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of the China. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict our ability to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends, or otherwise satisfy foreign currency denominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from the transaction, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”) by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate governmental authorities is required where Renminbi are to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of the PRC to pay capital expenses, such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. 32 The PRC government could also restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay certain expenses as they become due. MSPEA Modified Plastics Holding Limited (“MSPEA”) has significant influence over our affairs. MSPEA currently owns 100% of our outstanding Series D Preferred Stock, representing approximately 23.8% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock on an as converted basis. Pursuant to the Certificate of Designation of Series D Preferred Stock, holders of Series D Preferred Stock have the right to elect, voting as a separate class, two directors to serve on the Board so long as at least 12,800,000 (adjusted for any dilutive corporate actions) shares of Series D Preferred Stock are outstanding, and one director to serve on the Board if the number of shares of Series D Preferred Stock outstanding at such time is less than 12,800,000 but more than 1,600,000 (in each case adjusted for any dilutive corporate actions). For so long as at least 1,600,000 (adjusted for any dilutive corporate actions) shares of Series D Preferred Stock remain outstanding, holders of Series D Preferred Stock have veto rights over certain material corporate actions of the Company and its subsidiaries as described in the Certificate of Designation of Series D Preferred Stock. As such, MSPEA currently has significant influence over our affairs. Upon the occurrence of certain events, we may be required to redeem all or a portion of the Series D Preferred Stock. The holders of the Series D Preferred Stock have the right to require us to redeem all or a portion of the outstanding shares of the Series D Preferred Stock, subject to certain restriction on the redemption date, at a price per share equal to an amount that would yield a total internal rate of return of 15% to such holder on the original issue price of $6.25 per share, upon the occurrence of any of the following events: (i) our failure to achieve an adjusted consolidated net income of RMB360 million for fiscal year 2011, or RMB468 million for fiscal year 2012, or RMB608 million for fiscal year 2013, (ii) a breach by us, XD Engineering Plastics or Mr. Han of certain provisions of the financing documents in connection with the issuance and sale of the Series D Preferred Stock, which breach gives rise to a material adverse effect on us or which materially diminishes the value of the Series D Preferred Stock, (iii) the commencement by the Company or any of its subsidiaries of any bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or the like, or (iv) the appointment of a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee or other similar officials of the Company or any of its subsidiaries for the winding up or liquidation of its affairs. In the event we are required to redeem the Series D Preferred Stock, if we have insufficient cash available and do not have access to bank debt, we may have to liquidate assets to fund such redemption. Any such liquidation may yield proceeds lesser than might otherwise be the case. 33 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 