Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before purchasing our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are unaware, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also become important factors that affect us. There may be risks that a particular investor views differently from us, and our analysis of the risks we face might be wrong. If any of the risks that we face actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected and could differ materially from any possible results suggested by any forward-looking statements that we have made or might make. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose some or all of your investment. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Risks relating to our business and industry We derive almost all of our revenues from the sale of advertising, which is sensitive to broader economic conditions. Our revenues may substantially decrease if the economic environment deteriorates in Russia or other CIS countries in which we operate. We generate substantially all of our revenues from advertising. In general, expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions and buying patterns. Since the introduction of commercial television advertising in Russia following the fall of the Soviet Union, advertising spending has fluctuated substantially, generally increasing during periods of economic growth and decreasing during downturns. Beginning in the second half of 2008, Russia, like many other countries, experienced economic instability, characterized by a steep decline in the value of shares traded on its stock exchanges, devaluation of its currency, capital flight and a decline in gross domestic product. Additionally, because Russia produces and exports large amounts of oil and gas, recent decreases in international oil prices have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the Russian economy. The current situation in Ukraine also has the potential to negatively affect our ability to sublicense certain programming in that country and may also have broader impacts on the macroeconomic environment of the region, which may adversely affect our business. Like Russia, Kazakhstan has also experienced economic instability. Although overall Russian television advertising spending increased in each of the past three years, if overall spending by advertisers in the Russian television advertising market falls substantially in future periods, our advertising revenues may be significantly reduced, materially adversely affecting our results of operations. A reduction in our audience shares and ratings would likely result in a reduction in our advertising revenues. The level of advertising revenues that we receive is directly tied to our audience shares and ratings. If our audience shares or ratings were to fall as a result, for example, of competitive pressures, underperformance of key programs, failure to renew licenses, or a change in the method of measuring television audiences, this would likely result in a decrease in our advertising revenues, which could be material. Our ability to attract and retain viewers depends primarily on our success in offering programming that appeals to our target audiences. Russian viewer preferences have been changing in recent years, with increasing demand for programming produced in Russia. There is currently a relatively limited supply of Russian-produced programming and strong competition among Russian networks and channels for such programming and Russian production talent, as well as for popular foreign programming. 18 Table of Contents From time to time we air one or two series during primetime that contribute disproportionately to our overall audience share, resulting in an overall audience share that we may not be able to sustain once that series is discontinued or loses popularity. Moreover, because we continue to rely on third-party production companies for a large portion of our programming and our programming library is not as extensive as those of some of our competitors, we may be unable to quickly substitute new programming for underperforming programming. If we are unable to produce or secure a steady supply of high-quality programming, particularly in the key timeslots, or if we fail to anticipate, identify or react appropriately to changes in Russian viewer tastes or legislation, or to increased competition, by providing appropriate programming, our overall audience shares could be negatively affected, which would adversely affect our advertising revenues. Moreover, if any of the programming we produce, commission or license does not achieve the audience share levels we anticipate, we may be required to write-off all or a portion of the carrying cost of such programming, and we could be forced to broadcast more expensive programming to maintain audience share, either of which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We may face additional expenditures in connection with the planned transition from analog to digital broadcasting in Russia and Kazakhstan, and the necessary investments for digital migration may not be fully monetized. The Russian government has announced a federal program to introduce digital broadcasting throughout Russia by 2018. The government's plan called for digital broadcasting to be introduced in stages, with several packages of digital signals, or "multiplexes", to be launched over time. The existing analog broadcasting system will be switched off in stages during the rollout period. The government initially announced the channels that would be included in the first multiplex (Channel One, Rossiya 1, Rossiya 2, Rossiya 24, Rossiya K, Channel 5, NTV, Karousel, TVC and Public TV of Russia (OTR)), determined milestones for the transition to this multiplex, and indicated that the infrastructure for this first multiplex will be funded by the government. In October 2012, the Russian Federal Service for Supervision in the Sphere of Telecommunications, Information Technologies and Mass Communications (Roskomnadzor) announced the terms of a tender for a second multiplex, the results of which were announced on December 14, 2012. In total, 10 channels, including our CTC and Domashny channels, were selected for inclusion in the second multiplex. It is expected that the second multiplex will be available to approximately 97.6% of the Russian population. In addition, governmental authorities announced plans to introduce a third multiplex which is supposed to cover only cities with populations of more than 50,000 people and is expected to be available to approximately 64% of the Russian population, and indicated that the structure of the third multiplex and terms of participation in it, as well as terms of the tender for the third multiplex, will be determined by a governmental commission in 2014. The terms for participation in the third digital multiplex have not been specified. Following the introduction of digital broadcasting, we expect to encounter certain risks and uncertainties in the execution of each of our channels' business models. Currently, we believe the most significant of these are the following: •The anticipated transition to digital broadcasting may affect the relative position of broadcasters within the television marketplace, which may negatively impact the audience shares of our channels. •Viewers may not acquire television-sets or converters that will allow them to receive the digital signal prior to the time analog broadcasting ends. Further, viewers may switch to cable television. In the absence of "must-carry" obligations for cable operators, this could lead to a 19 Table of Contents decline in the overall number of households viewing free-to-air television and, as a result, our viewer ratings. •Our Peretz channel may not be able to compete effectively if it is not included in the third multiplex, as its technical penetration could decrease when free-to-air analog broadcasting is terminated and could be limited, at a maximum, to the level of overall cable penetration. Currently, cable penetration in Russia among cities with more than 100,000 residents is approximately 60%, which is lower than Peretz channel's current overall technical penetration of 85.5%. With respect to the third multiplex, it is unclear what requirements the channels are supposed to meet in order to be included in that multiplex. •Current Russian legislation does not provide 'must carry' obligations for cable and satellite operators, and accordingly we may be unable to secure or maintain carriage of our signal over cable in certain regions, or at transmission rates that are consistent with our historical experience. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate mutually acceptable transmission agreements with cable providers in the future relating to the carriage of our signal. •We expect to continue to incur analog transmission costs during the analog-to-digital transition period. In 2013, we incurred $24 million of such expenses for our Russian channels; we may also incur further costs, in addition to those we currently have, during the transition period and thereafter. Governmental authorities have also indicated that each channel participating in the second multiplex will be expected to pay up to $26 million annually in digital transmission fees once the second multiplex is fully introduced. In the transition period, these transmission fees are expected to be lower and are to be paid by way of stage payments as the rollout progresses. As a result, increased revenues from higher anticipated geographical penetration from digital broadcasting may not sufficiently compensate for increased costs associated with transmission and broadcast equipment upgrades. •There may be other unanticipated risks and expenses that we encounter during the transition and subsequently that could be material to our future financial position and results of operations. While our channels will continue to broadcast in the analog format under existing analog licenses until the transition to the digital format is completed, as discussed above, there is currently uncertainty regarding the effect of the implementation of digital broadcasting on our business models, and the digitalization of broadcasting may adversely affect our market and financial condition. More recently, in February 2014, the Russian press has reported that governmental authorities have indicated that analog broadcasting will not be completely switched off by 2018 as was initially planned, but instead it may be used to sustain the broadcasting opportunities for regional companies. Additionally, reports suggest that governmental authorities may require all channels included in the first and second digital multiplex to reconfigure their broadcasting signal into high definition (HD) format. These reports have not been officially confirmed or commented on by regulatory authorities as of the date of this Annual Report. However, if such decisions are implemented in the future, we will be required to reconsider our operational models and business plans in order to reflect such changes. While we do not believe such changes would impact us in the near term, we are unable to predict how such changes, if any, may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in future periods. See also "—A significant portion of our total assets relates to goodwill. We have been required to record significant impairment charges for goodwill in the past, and if events or changes in circumstances further reduce the fair value of those assets, we may be required to record additional impairment losses that could materially adversely impact our net income." 20 Table of Contents Several recently adopted Russian laws may impact the programming and advertisements we are permitted to broadcast, which could result in a reduction in our audience share and advertising revenues. The law "On protection of children from harmful information", which came into effect in September 2012 prohibits the distribution of any information that may be harmful to children , such as scenes of violence, abusive language, pornography and scenes encouraging children to consume alcohol, drugs and tobacco. All information must be labeled into five categories: (1) information appropriate for children under 6 years, (2) information appropriate for children 6 years and older, (3) information appropriate for children 12 years and older, (4) information appropriate for children 16 years and older, and (5) information prohibited for children. In order to comply with this new law, we have established an editorial control department responsible for labeling our programs in accordance with these five categories. Since September 2012 all our programs have been labeled in accordance with this new law. Implementation of this law has not adversely affected our channels to date, but we can provide no assurance that governmental authorities will not in the future interpret the law in such a way that will require us to revise our programming, which could adversely impact the audience share of our channels. In April 2013, a new law came into force amending the federal law "Improving Regulation of Mass Media, Television and Radio Broadcasting" as well as the administrative code, prohibiting the use of abusive language in mass media. We believe that these amendments will not affect our channels as long as we constantly monitor our content, but since the term "abusive language" is not defined and is subject to interpretation, we cannot guarantee that we will not be faced with claims that we have violated this new law or that we will be able to defend these claims successfully. In October 2013, a new law came into force amending the law on advertising as well as the Administrative Code in respect of advertising biologically active additives (BAA) and imposing sanctions for inappropriate advertising thereof. According to the new law, advertisements must include a disclaimer that BAAs are not a medicine. Advertisers as well as television channels broadcasting such BAA advertisements will be liable if such a disclaimer is not included or does not satisfy these new requirements. We do not expect that these amendments will affect our business significantly, since we have editorial control over commercials we broadcast, but we cannot be sure that we will not receive any claims in the future, since there is no legal practice in implementing these amendments and there are no court interpretations of them. Changes in the method of measuring television audiences and ratings have at times in the past resulted, and may again in the future result, in decreases in our audience share and ratings. Our advertising revenues are largely driven by our audience share (the percentage of all people watching television at a given time who are watching CTC, Domashny or Peretz) and ratings (the percentage of the total population that is watching CTC, Domashny or Peretz at a given time). The system of audience measurement in Russia, currently run by TNS Russia, has evolved as the advertising market has matured and in response to changing Russian demographics. TNS Russia currently weights the panel of measured cities based on broadcasters' technical penetration in a group of 165 cities (the so-called "establishment survey"). The panel cities are chosen from among those Russian cities with more than 100,000 residents, which together account for approximately 50% of the total population of Russia. Our audience share could be negatively affected if we were to lose an affiliate in one of the cities in that group, or if our technical penetration in that group of cities were to be lower than our average technical penetration. At the end of 2012, the government published the results of the Russian population census taken at the end of 2010. These results led to changes to the relative weighting of the cities in the panel, the size of which increased to 77 cities starting January 1, 2013. Furthermore, in 2013 TNS expanded the "establishment survey" from 121 cities to all cities with more than 100,000 residents (165 cities in 21 Table of Contents total). According to preliminary estimates such change did not lead to any significant changes in the weighting system or have any impact on our estimated ratings. The anticipated transition to digital broadcasting discussed above may also result in changes in the TNS measurement system, including a re-weighting of the panel cities, to reflect increased penetration of Russian channels after the rollout period. In response to the Russian digitalization program, TNS plans to change its measuring parameters to the "total urban population" by 2017. At the moment the key parameters of "total urban population" measurement have not been determined. The transition to the "total urban population" will likely affect all market participants. We cannot predict the impact of any such changes at this time. When changes to the system of audience measurement occur, we attempt to take steps when possible in respect of our programming, distribution and sales to counteract the effects of such changes. We cannot assure you that these steps will be adequate or effective, or that any further changes in the measurement system will not result in further decreases in our audience shares and, as a result, a material decrease in our advertising revenues. A significant portion of our total assets relates to goodwill. We have been required to record significant impairment charges for goodwill in the past, and if events or changes in circumstances further reduce the fair value of our reporting units, we may be required to record additional impairment losses that could materially adversely impact our net income. We have a significant amount of goodwill recorded on our consolidated balance sheet. If we determine that our estimate of the current value of a reporting unit is below the recorded value of that unit on our balance sheet, we may record an impairment loss for goodwill. In addition, uncertainty remains concerning global economic stability in the medium-term. Many of the largest advertisers in the Russian market, including many of the largest advertisers on CTC, Domashny and Peretz, are multinational companies that sell consumer products on a worldwide basis. If Russia experiences significant economic instability or uncertainty, these companies may choose to reduce their advertising spending in Russia. Our management, in consultation with the Board of Directors, continuously assesses market conditions and may revise its estimates for the Russian television advertising market growth in the medium term to reflect potential negative trends in the macroeconomic environment. Our management also considers the developments in digital broadcasting and their potential impacts on revenues and costs (see also "—We may face additional expenditures in connection with the planned transition from analog to digital broadcasting in Russia and Kazakhstan, and the necessary investments for digital migration may not be fully monetized"). The fair value of the Peretz reporting unit is particularly sensitive to changes in revenues and costs that may result depending on its distribution model after the end of analog broadcasting. Currently, the terms for participation in the third digital multiplex have not been specified. In addition, current Russian legislation does not provide 'must carry' obligations for cable and satellite operators, and accordingly we may be unable to secure or maintain carriage of our signal over cable in certain regions, or at transmission rates that are consistent with our historical experience. Depending on further information about the terms of the transition to digital broadcasting, terms of interaction with cable and satellite providers, as well as other future developments, we may need to further revise our projected cash flows, which could adversely impact the fair value of our reporting units and related goodwill. As of December 31, 2013, the carrying values of goodwill related to CTC, Domashny and Peretz were $51.6 million, $26.0 million and $57.6 million, respectively. Any decrease in cash flow projections could adversely impact the fair value of our reporting units and related goodwill or intangible assets, and we would then record additional impairment charges. In December 2013, we concluded that the carrying value of our production unit exceeds its fair value as a result of downward revisions of the long-term cash flow projections in respect of this unit. These downward revisions primarily reflect a reduction in the expected volume of in-house production, 22 Table of Contents an expected increase in production costs as we face increased competition from other market participants for a scarce supply of quality talent, and projections of a decreased rate of growth in the Russian TV advertising market. In the fourth quarter of 2013, we recorded an impairment charge for goodwill associated with our in-house production unit in the full amount of $29.9 million. See "—Impairment loss" below and "—Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 10, Impairment loss". We consider all current information in respect of determining the need for, or calculating, any impairment loss; however, future changes in events or circumstances, such as a continuation or worsening of the current economic instability, decreases in our audience shares or ratings, increased competition from cable providers or others, or changes in the audience measurement system, could result in decreases in the fair value of our long-lived assets and require us to record additional impairment losses that could have a material adverse impact on our net income. Declines in the value of the Russian ruble against the US dollar have in the past negatively affected our reported revenues and our operating results, both of which are reported in US dollars. Although our reporting currency is the US dollar, we generate almost all of our revenues through the sale of advertising, which in Russia is sold primarily in rubles. The ruble is also the functional currency of our principal operating subsidiaries. As a result, our reported revenues and results of operations are impacted by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the US dollar and the Russian ruble. Additionally, we face exchange rate risk relating to payments that we must make in currencies other than the ruble. We generally pay for non-Russian produced programming in US dollars. The ruble has experienced significant fluctuations against the dollar in recent years. In 2012 and 2011, the Russian ruble appreciated by approximately 6% and depreciated by approximately 5%, respectively, against the US dollar. In 2013, the Russian ruble depreciated against the US dollar by 7%, and was on average 2% lower than the average value of the Russian ruble compared to the US dollar during 2012. In 2013, the average exchange rate was RUR 31.85 to $1.00. The prevailing exchange rate as of December 31, 2013 was RUR 32.73 to $1.00. During the period from December 31, 2013 to March 1, 2014, the Russian ruble further depreciated against the US dollar to RUR 36.18 to $1.00. If the exchange rate between the ruble and the US dollar were further to depreciate, the revenues and operating results of the Company, as reported in US dollars, would be adversely affected. The current situation in Ukraine has the potential to further negatively impact the value of the Russian ruble. Restrictions on direct or indirect foreign ownership of Russian television companies could limit our ability to grow our business through acquisitions. In May 2008, the law "On foreign investments in economic entities that have strategic importance for defense and security of the state" (the "Strategic Enterprises Law") came into effect in Russia. The Strategic Enterprises Law imposes restrictions on direct or indirect non-Russian ownership in "strategically important" industries, including television broadcasters that broadcast to more than 50% of the population of a relevant constituent entity of the Russian Federation. Among other things, the Strategic Enterprises Law requires prior approval from the Commission for Control Over Foreign Investments, and potentially from the Federal Security Bureau, for the acquisition by a non-Russian entity of an interest above a certain ownership threshold in a company operating in a strategically significant sector. We, understand that such approval generally requires at least six months. The Strategic Enterprises Law contains a "grandfather" provision with respect to pre-existing holdings in affected companies that requires notification of such pre-existing holdings but does not have an approval requirement. We therefore believe that neither CTC Media's pre-existing ownership of its Russian operating subsidiaries, nor the pre-existing ownership of shares of CTC Media by non-Russian 23 Table of Contents stockholders, violates the Strategic Enterprises Law or requires any approval. We do believe, however, that we will be required to obtain approval under the Strategic Enterprises Law for any acquisition of an affiliate television station that broadcasts to more than 50% of the population of a relevant constituent entity of the Russian Federation, or any acquisition of another Russian network. Such approval process is likely to be time-consuming and may, in any event, ultimately result in a rejection of a proposed transaction. As a result, we may lose out on acquisition opportunities to competitors, and our ability to grow our business through acquisitions in Russia may be limited. Even if the authorities approve such a transaction, they may do so subject to conditions regarding the operation of the company—including, for example, the composition of its management—that may limit our effective control and operational flexibility. Restrictions on foreign involvement in the television business in Russia could potentially be amended or interpreted in such a way as to result in our loss of necessary licenses or to require us to divest majority control of our Russian operating subsidiaries. In addition to the Strategic Enterprises Law discussed above, the law "On Mass Media" (the "Mass Media Law") also restricts direct (but not indirect) foreign involvement in Russian television businesses. Following adoption of these provisions in 2002, we implemented a restructuring plan pursuant to which we created a holding company structure and reduced CTC Media's direct ownership in the CTC Network and each of our owned-and-operated stations below 50%. CTC Media's direct ownership of Domashny and the Peretz Group, which were acquired subsequent to the adoption of these restrictions, is also below 50%. This restructuring was completed prior to the August 2002 deadline with respect to all entities in our group, other than our CTC-Moscow station; the restructuring of the ownership of that station was completed in December 2002. To date, no Russian governmental authorities have taken any action against our CTC-Moscow station for its failure to comply with the restrictions on foreign legal ownership by the deadline. Because CTC Media itself does not broadcast or distribute television programming in the Russian Federation, we believe that CTC Media itself does not fall under the definition of a "founder of a television or video program" for purposes of the Mass Media Law, and that CTC Media does not violate the foreign involvement restrictions of that law. The Mass Media Law could in the future be interpreted by Russian governmental authorities or a court to extend to, and to prohibit, indirect foreign ownership of or control over Russian broadcasters of television or video programs. In addition, the Strategic Enterprises Law described above could be implemented or interpreted to apply in some respects to foreign holdings existing at the time of adoption of the law. In either case, it is possible that Russian governmental authorities could suspend or revoke broadcasting licenses or permits held by our networks and our owned-and-operated stations, or fail to renew any such licenses. If any law were to be adopted or interpreted to restrict indirect foreign ownership and control of Russian television broadcasters, and did not contain a "grandfather" provision with respect to existing holdings, CTC Media could be obliged to restructure its group in order to comply with such requirements, including by divesting a controlling stake in our networks and our owned-and-operated stations. If we failed to comply in a timely manner, the authorities could suspend, revoke or fail to renew broadcasting licenses or permits held by our networks or our owned-and-operated stations, or could take other actions against us that could limit our ability to operate. Restrictions on foreign involvement in the television business in Kazakhstan could be amended or interpreted in such a way as to result in our loss of necessary licenses or to require us to divest control of our Kazakh operating subsidiaries. The Mass Media Law in Kazakhstan restricts direct and indirect foreign ownership of any Kazakh television broadcaster to no more than 20%. In 2008, we acquired a 20% interest in the Kazakh television broadcast company Channel 31, and established two subsidiaries that provide the programming content and advertising sales functions to Channel 31 on an exclusive basis (together, the 24 Table of Contents "Channel 31 Group"). Together, these interests provide us with a 60% economic interest in the Channel 31 Group as a whole. If the existing 20% limit were to be interpreted to restrict effective or economic control, rather than just direct ownership, or if the law were to be changed or interpreted to impose further restrictions or limitations on foreign ownership of Kazakh television broadcasters, we could be obliged to restructure this group in order to comply with such requirements or could be required to divest all or a portion of our interest in the Channel 31 Group. If we fail to comply in a timely manner, the authorities could suspend or revoke Channel 31's broadcasting licenses or could take other actions that could limit our ability to operate the Channel 31 Group. The book value of Channel 31's broadcasting license as of December 31, 2013, was approximately $6 million. We may encounter difficulties integrating acquired businesses, and if we fail to identify additional suitable targets our growth may be impeded. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to continue to evaluate potential acquisitions that we believe are commercially attractive. While acquisitions represent an important component of our growth strategy, the integration of new businesses poses significant risks to our existing operations, including: •additional and significant demands placed on our senior management, who are also responsible for managing our existing operations; •increased overall operating complexity of our business, requiring greater personnel and other resources; •difficulties of expanding beyond our core expertise; •significant initial cash expenditures to acquire and integrate new businesses; •contingent liabilities associated with acquired businesses; and •incurrence of debt to finance acquisitions and high debt service costs related thereto. Additionally, the integration of new businesses may be difficult for a variety of reasons, including differing cultures or management styles, legal restrictions in the target's jurisdiction, poor target records or internal controls and an inability to establish control over cash flows. Furthermore, even if we are successful in integrating new businesses, expected synergies and cost savings may not materialize, resulting in lower than expected profit margins. As a US public company, we are subject to securities laws and regulations requiring that we file with the SEC audited historical financial statements for businesses we acquire that exceed certain materiality thresholds. Given the financial reporting practices in Russia and other CIS countries, such financial statements are often not readily available or are not capable of being audited to the standards required by US securities regulations. As a result, we may be prevented from pursuing acquisition opportunities that our competitors and other financial and strategic investors are able to pursue. A change in Russian law further limiting the amount of advertising time permitted on television could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Current Russian law limits the amount of time that a broadcaster may devote to advertising to no more than 15% of any broadcasting hour. From time to time, there are discussions in the Russian government regarding imposing additional restrictions on television advertising, such as limiting the types of products that may be advertised, limiting product placements in programming, limiting the number of advertising breaks allowed in certain programs or requiring channels to devote more broadcast time to public service announcements. If legislation were introduced to further limit our ability to broadcast paid advertising or product placements, we cannot guarantee that increases in advertising prices, if any, or any other steps we would be able to take to mitigate the impact of such further limitation would be sufficient to compensate for the loss of advertising time. 25 Table of Contents If free-to-air television does not continue to constitute a significant advertising forum in Russia, our revenues could be materially reduced. We generate substantially all our revenues from the sale of television advertising in Russia, which constituted approximately half of all advertising expenditures in Russia in 2013, having increased from 25% in 1999. In the broader advertising market, television competes with various other advertising media, such as print, radio, internet and outdoor advertising. In addition, the television broadcasting industry is affected by rapid innovations in technology. The implementation of new technologies and the introduction of broadcasting distribution systems other than free-to-air broadcasting, such as direct-to-home cable and satellite distribution systems, the internet, video-on-demand, user-generated content sites and the availability of television programming on portable digital devices, are changing consumer behavior by increasing the number of entertainment choices available to the audience. While television continues to constitute the single largest component of all advertising spending in Russia, there can be no assurance that television will maintain its current position among advertising media. Increases in competition arising from the development of new forms of advertising media could have an adverse effect on our ability to maintain and develop our advertising revenues and, as a result, on our results of operations. The loss of licenses, or the failure to comply with the terms of licenses, could have an adverse effect on our business. All broadcast television stations in Russia are required to have broadcasting and other operating licenses. Only a limited number of such licenses are available in each locality. These licenses currently had a standard term of ten years. We also hold a so-called "universal licenses", which permits a channel to broadcast through free-to-air, cable and satellite broadcasting, in either digital or analog format across the whole territory of Russia. However, we anticipate that analog licenses will be relevant until the full transition to digital broadcasting is complete. In addition, Russian law could be interpreted as requiring cable television operators to have broadcast and other operating licenses for each of the channels or networks they transmit on their cable systems. Most of the independent cable television operators that currently carry our networks do not possess such licenses. The issuance of a license, as well as the terms and conditions of any license, are often subject to the exercise of broad discretion by governmental authorities. A broadcaster must conform its programming to the programming concept outlined in the broadcasting license. In particular, the broadcaster is obliged to ensure compliance of its programming with the declared genres of the channel and to maintain a required balance in the volume-genre ratio of broadcasted materials, both of which are prescribed in the license. Until recently, the broadcasting licenses of our affiliate stations also contained various restrictions, including requirements with respect to the minimum amount of locally produced programming that must be broadcast. The broadcasting license of Channel 31 in Kazakhstan also contains various restrictions and obligations. Kazakh law currently requires that broadcasters air at least 50% of their programming in the Kazakh language during every six-hour slot. We may not always be in full compliance with license requirements. Also, our affiliates have not always been in full compliance with all the requirements of their licenses or obtained all the licenses necessary for broadcasting. If the terms of a license are not complied with, or if we violate applicable legislation or regulations, the license may be suspended or terminated (which decision may be appealed in court). If an affiliate were to broadcast without all the necessary licenses, broadcasting may be terminated and fines could be imposed. The loss of an existing broadcasting license, or the failure to obtain a broadcasting license in a new market, particularly in a significant market, could reduce or limit the coverage of our networks and 26 Table of Contents result in a loss of audience share and a fall in ratings, which could materially adversely affect our advertising revenues and business. The failure of our independent affiliates to comply with requirements in our network agreements that they broadcast our advertising creates potential for complaints from our advertising clients. We seek to enter into formal agreements with our independent affiliate stations governing various aspects of the broadcast of our network programming. These agreements generally require our affiliates to air most of our programming, including advertising during federal advertising slots. The majority of our independent affiliate stations have their own broadcasting licenses which entitle them to form their own broadcasting grid structured in accordance with their licenses as well as our network agreements. Although we have introduced system of our broadcast monitoring covering also cities that have not been included in TNS Russia Panel, we cannot ensure that our affiliates are always consistent in their compliance with the federal advertising provisions of our agreements. If an independent affiliate breaches its obligations under our network agreement, we may face complaints from our advertising clients. The loss of independent affiliates could result in a loss of audience share. We seek to enter into formal agreements with our independent affiliate stations that govern various aspects of the broadcast of our network programming. These agreements generally provide each party with the right to terminate the agreement on 60 or 90 days' notice without penalty. If an independent affiliate in a larger market, particularly in a city where audiences are measured and in which we do not own and operate a station, were to terminate its agreement with us, sell itself to a competing network or lose the ability to broadcast our signal, it could result in a decrease in our audience share. We rely on third parties to provide us with re-transmission capabilities in certain locations, and our business would be adversely affected if such parties terminated or adversely changed the terms of those relationships. In certain locations, we depend on cable operators or other third parties to carry our signal. In Moscow, for example, television signals are transmitted from a central tower to roof antennas located on buildings throughout the city, and are then amplified for retransmission within the buildings. Mostelecom is the major local provider of cable transmission in Moscow. We have contracts with Mostelecom to secure the rights of our CTC, Domashny and Peretz Moscow stations to be connected by cable to households in Moscow. These contracts do not, however, grant us the right to be connected to all households in Moscow for all of our networks. From time to time we evaluate, from a cost benefit analysis, whether to connect by cable to additional households. A second cable operator carries our networks' signals to approximately 15% of the Moscow households covered by our networks' signals. We pay this cable operator an annual fee for transmission to these households. A cable system similar to that provided by Mostelecom is in place in St. Petersburg and is operated by the local provider; we pay this cable operator an annual fee for transmission. If we were to be denied continued access to the cable systems that carry our networks' signals in Moscow or St. Petersburg, our technical penetration would be materially adversely affected which would, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our audience shares. Depending on the exact terms of the transition to digital broadcasting, our dependence on cable operators may increase. Current Russian legislation does not provide 'must carry' obligations for cable operators, and accordingly we may be unable to secure or maintain carriage of our channels' signals over cable in certain regions, or at transmission rates that are consistent with our historical experience. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate mutually acceptable transmission agreements in the future relating to the carriage of our signals with cable providers. 27 Table of Contents We rely on third parties for the production of some of our original Russian programming, and our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to continue such relationships on acceptable terms. We rely on third-party production houses to produce a significant portion of our original programs. If we are unable to continue our close working relationships with the production houses we use or to develop new relationships, our ability to air premium new Russian content may be impeded, which would likely result in a loss of audience share and therefore a reduction in our share of the television advertising market. We may not be able to compete successfully against other free-to-air channels and networks that may have broader coverage, greater name recognition, larger market share, wider programming content or access to more funding than we do, or with niche channels or non-free-to-air channels offering competitive programming formats. The Russian television broadcasting business is highly competitive. Approximately 20 free-to air television channels account for approximately 98% of the television advertising market. The market also includes multiple non-free-to-air television channels. The free-to-air channels include five larger national channels, namely Channel One, Rossiya 1, NTV, TNT and CTC, and a number of smaller niche channels, including Domashny and Peretz. Our networks compete for audience share with other national television networks and channels and with local stations, as well as with niche broadcasters. We compete on the basis of both the actual and anticipated size of our audiences for specific time slots, as well as the demographic characteristics of our viewers. On a national level, CTC competes directly with other larger broadcast networks and channels, including Channel One, as well as with the smaller networks, TNT and NTV. Domashny competes for advertising revenues primarily with Rossiya 1 and TVC, and Peretz competes primarily with NTV and REN-TV, although they both also compete with the larger broadcast networks and channels for viewers within their target demographic groups. On a local level, our owned-and-operated stations compete with other stations for local advertising. Channel One and Rossiya 1 were established as state television channels during the Soviet period and they remain under Russian state control. As a result, we understand that these channels receive state benefits not generally available to private companies, including free signal transmission (in the case of Channel One), direct state budget subsidies (in the case of Rossiya 1) and preferences in licensing. Moreover, nearly every viewing household in Russia can receive the broadcast signals of Channel One and Rossiya 1, while only a more limited viewing audience can currently receive our network signals. The much broader coverage and name recognition of Channel One and Rossiya 1, coupled with programming geared toward a broader demographic group, help them to attract large audience shares. NTV, which is indirectly controlled by the state through Gazprom, the state-controlled energy company, also has a broader coverage than our networks, and we believe also benefits from free signal transmission. In 2013, Channel One had an average audience share in 10-45 year-old viewers of 11.6%, while Rossiya 1's was 8.6% and NTV's was 9.0%. CTC's average target audience share in 2013 was 11.3%. We believe that the strong audience shares of Channel One, Rossiya 1 and NTV may give these broadcasters added leverage in negotiations with advertisers, advertising agencies and sales houses. Moreover, as we focus on entertainment programming, we are unable to compete with other broadcasters for audiences for news and sporting programs, some of which have among the highest audience shares and ratings in their time slots. In addition, Channel One, Rossiya 1 and NTV enjoy certain preferences that commercial channels do not. For example, they are included in the list of free-access federal channels that benefit from a must-carry option throughout Russia, as opposed to commercial channels including ours, which have to pay for transmission services. 28 Table of Contents Disney Channel launched free-to-air broadcasting in Russia in December 2011. The Disney channel focuses on family entertainment by combining Disney programming with original Russian TV shows. CTC channel competes with Disney Channel for younger audiences. On June 1, 2011, Telcrest acquired 25.15% of our common stock from a former stockholder. We understand that the beneficial owners of Telcrest, including Bank Rossiya (which is not affiliated with Rossiya television channel), have investments in Russian media businesses, including through ownership interests in Channel One, REN-TV and Channel 5. Telcrest and Bank Rossiya may have interests different from, or in addition to, the interests of other stockholders of CTC Media. See also "—Our principal stockholders may have interests that are different from, or in addition to, the interests of other stockholders of CTC Media." Non-free-to-air channels typically provide services to subscribers for a regular subscription fee, and typically do not generate a significant portion of their revenues from advertising. As a percentage of the overall television market, the non-free-to-air market in Russia is currently smaller than in the United States and Western European countries. Audience share for these channels, however, is increasing. In other countries, such as the United States, growth in non-free-to-air television services has often resulted in a fragmentation of the market and a corresponding decrease in the audience share of large national networks and channels. All larger national free-to-air TV channels in Russia have in recent periods been negatively impacted by increased competition from smaller non-free-to-air and local TV channel viewership in the "All 4+" category, which increased from 12.6% in 2010 to 14.5% in 2011, 15.5% in 2012 and 17.2% in 2013. If niche and non-free-to-air channels continue to grow their customer base in Russia, our audience shares and ratings, especially the audience share of CTC channel, could be negatively affected, which would adversely affect our advertising revenues. See also "—If free-to-air television does not continue to constitute a significant advertising forum in Russia, our revenues could be materially reduced". Also, the introduction of digital broadcasting may affect competition within the television marketplace, which may negatively impact the audience shares of our channels. See also "—We may face additional expenditures in connection with the planned transition from analog to digital broadcasting in Russia and Kazakhstan and the necessary investments for digital migration may not be fully monetized". We have substantial future programming commitments that we may not be able to vary in response to a decline in advertising revenues, and as a result could experience material reductions in operating margins. Programming represents our most significant expense, and at any given time we generally have substantial fixed commitments for the succeeding two to three years. For example, as of December 31, 2013 we had contractual commitments for the acquisition of approximately $189.0 million in programming rights in 2014 and $29.7 million in 2015. Given the size of these commitments, at any time a reduction in our advertising revenues could adversely affect our operating margins and results of operations. We would have only limited ability to reduce our costs in the short-run in response to such developments. Our relationships with the co-owners of our television stations may limit our ability to implement our business plans and strategy. More than half of our owned-and-operated stations are 100% owned by CTC Media. Other shareholders own between less than 1% and 50% of each of the remaining owned-and-operated stations. In some cases, we depend to a significant extent on our local partners for their familiarity with the local business environment and public authorities. Moreover, we may in the future similarly rely on joint-owners as we acquire additional stations. Any significant disruption in our relationship with these parties could make it more difficult for us to operate these stations. 29 Table of Contents Russian law and some of the agreements governing these stations grant protective rights to our co-owners that enable them to block certain significant corporate actions. Under Russian company law, significant corporate decisions, such as declaring and paying dividends and entering into substantial transactions, require the consent of the holders of two-thirds or three-quarters of the voting interests of the company, depending on the subject matter and the legal structure of the company. In addition, unanimous shareholder approval is required in limited instances, which could further affect our control over certain actions. For example, approval of a joint stock company's initial charter and reorganization of a joint stock company into a non-commercial partnership require 100% approval of shareholders. In the case of a limited liability company, increases in charter capital, amendments to a limited liability company's charter, and liquidation, among other actions, require 100% approval of the holders of participation interests. As a result, we are often required to obtain the consent of our co-owners when making significant corporate decisions. Although we are not aware of any specific transaction in which we failed to obtain the requisite approval of the co-owners of our stations, due to the formalistic nature of Russian law and the large number of corporate actions that are taken annually by our co-owned stations, we believe it is likely that, from time to time, not all necessary minority shareholder consents have been As a result, we cannot guarantee that co-owners of our stations will not bring claims against us for failure to obtain these necessary consents, which, if successful, could result in the transaction in question being voided. Moreover, even if not technically required by law or contract, we generally prefer to obtain the consent and support of our co-owners before undertaking significant corporate actions. If this consent cannot be obtained, we may decide to forego a transaction that is commercially favorable to us in an effort to preserve goodwill with our co-owners. Loss of key personnel could affect our growth and future success. We believe that our growth and our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled senior management, production talent, finance and legal personnel. We believe that certain competitors continue to aggressively court some of our personnel. The competition is intense in Russia for qualified personnel who are familiar with the Russian television industry and/or who are knowledgeable about US accounting and legal practices. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain qualified personnel, or hire appropriate replacements on reasonable terms or at all. A broadcasting systems failure could prevent us from transmitting our network signal and lead to a loss of viewers, damage to our reputation and a reduction in our advertising revenues. Our networks' signals originate in Moscow and are uplinked to multiple separate satellite systems that transmit our signals to our affiliate stations and unmanned repeater transmitters. From time to time we experience insignificant signal failures. Although we are able to backup our signal, prolonged or repeated disruptions in our signals could lead to a loss of viewers, damage to our reputation and a reduction in our advertising revenues. We do not carry business interruption insurance to protect us in the event of a catastrophe or termination of our ability to transmit our signals, even though such an event could have a significant negative impact on our business. We do not carry all of the insurance coverage customary in many countries for a business of our size and nature, and as a result could experience substantial loss or disruption. The insurance industry is less developed in Russia than in other developed countries, and many forms of insurance protection common in other countries are not yet available in Russia on comparable terms. Although we have insurance covering risks of loss of satellite signal and satellite capacity, at present, we have no coverage for business interruption or loss of key management personnel. We do not maintain separate funds or otherwise set aside reserves for these types of losses. Any such loss may 30 Table of Contents cause substantial disruption and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may from time to time be involved in lawsuits and investigations that could entail significant costs and, if determined against us, could require us to pay substantial damages, fines and/or penalties. In the normal course of our business we are involved in various legal proceedings. These lawsuits and other proceedings include commercial disputes, claims regarding intellectual property, tax disputes and labor disputes. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. If a lawsuit is decided in a way that is unfavorable to us, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, operating results, or financial condition. As a publicly listed company, we may be exposed to lawsuits in which plaintiffs allege that CTC Media or our directors or officers failed to comply with applicable securities laws, stock market regulations or other laws, regulations or requirements. Whether or not there is merit to such claims, the time and costs incurred in defending our company and its directors or officers, and any potential settlement or compensation we might be obligated to pay the plaintiffs, could have a significant impact on our reported results, as well as our reputation. Our principal stockholders may have interests that are different from, or in addition to, the interests of other stockholders of CTC Media. Each of our two largest stockholders, which together hold approximately 64% of our common stock, is involved in the television business in Russia. MTG Russia AB, an affiliate of the publicly listed Modern Times Group MTG AB ("MTG"), holds a 50% interest in Raduga Holdings. Raduga is the sole owner of LCC DalGeoCom, which operates Raduga TV, a nationwide Russian digital satellite pay-TV platform. Lorenzo Grabau, a member of the Board of MTG, is a Co-Chairman of our board of directors; Jørgen Madsen Lindemann, President and CEO of MTG, and Irina Gofman, Chief Executive Officer of MTG Russia AB, are members of our board of directors. Although we do not currently operate in the pay-TV market, and do not currently compete with or have any commercial relationship with Raduga TV, MTG may have interests that are different from or in addition to interests of other stockholders of CTC Media, including as a result of its interest in another Russian television business. We understand that the beneficial owners of our second largest shareholder Telcrest, including Bank Rossiya, have investments in Russian media businesses, including through indirect equity interests in Channel One, REN-TV and TRK 5 (Channel 5). We understand that Bank Rossiya also has indirect significant minority interests in Video International, with which we have software license and service agreements in respect of advertising sales. Pursuant to a stockholders agreement, Telcrest has designated three of our directors, none of whom we understand is currently primarily engaged in the operations of Channel One, REN-TV, TRK 5 or Video International. We compete with broadcasters in which the beneficial owners of Telcrest have equity and financial interests, and we believe the services of Video International are important to our operations. Although we are not aware of any conflicts of interest with Telcrest in this regard, Telcrest and its beneficial owners may have interests that are different from or in addition to interests of other stockholders of CTC Media. 31 Table of Contents Risks relating to doing business and investing in Russia The Russian banking system remains underdeveloped, and another banking crisis could place severe liquidity constraints on our business. Russia's banking and other financial systems are less developed and regulated than those of many other developed countries, and Russian legislation relating to banks and bank accounts is subject to varying interpretations and inconsistent application. Many Russian banks do not meet international banking standards, and the transparency of the Russian banking sector still lags far behind internationally accepted norms. Furthermore, Russian bank deposits made by corporate entities generally are not insured. The disruption in the world credit markets in 2008 and 2009 also negatively impacted the banking sector in Russia. There are currently a limited number of creditworthy Russian banks, most of which are located in Moscow and the largest of which are state-owned. We generally hold a large majority of our cash balance in Russian banks, including the Russian subsidiaries of foreign banks. Of that balance, a significant portion is held in ruble-denominated accounts. There are few, if any, safe ruble-denominated instruments in which we may invest our excess ruble cash. A banking crisis or the bankruptcy or insolvency of the banks from which we receive or with which we hold our funds could result in the loss of our deposits or affect our ability to complete banking transactions in Russia, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. Businesses in Russia, especially media companies, can be subject to politically motivated actions, which could materially adversely affect our operations. The Russian government has taken various actions in past years against business people and companies operating in Russia that have been perceived as having been politically motivated, including actions for technical violations of law or violations of laws that have been applied retroactively, including violations of tax laws. These actions have on occasion resulted in significant fluctuations in the market prices of the securities of businesses operating in Russia, a weakening of investor confidence in Russia and doubts about the progress of market and political reforms in Russia. Media businesses can be particularly vulnerable to politically motivated actions. We believe that our focus on entertainment, and the fact that we broadcast entertainment and celebrity news, but do not offer "hard" news, commentary or analysis on our national networks, could lessen the risk of provoking politically motivated actions. However, we do not restrict the ability of our independent affiliates to broadcast local news in local broadcasting windows, and some of our independent affiliates, as well as one of our owned-and-operated CTC stations, broadcast local political news, generally with the approval of our local partners and the local authorities. Any politically motivated action against us, our networks, our independent affiliates, or any of our principal stockholders, including the beneficial owners of MTG or Telcrest, could materially adversely affect our operations. The Russian legal system can create an uncertain environment for investment and business activity, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and the value of our common stock. The legal framework to support a market economy remains new and in flux in Russia and, as a result, the Russian legal system can be characterized by: •inconsistencies between and among laws and governmental, ministerial and local regulations, orders, decisions, resolutions and other acts; •substantial gaps in the regulatory structure resulting from the delay in adoption or absence of implementing regulations; •limited judicial and administrative guidance on interpreting Russian legislation; 32 Table of Contents •the relative inexperience of judges and courts in interpreting relatively new commercial legislation; •a lack of judicial independence from political, social and commercial forces; •under-funding and under-staffing of the court system; •a high degree of discretion on the part of the judiciary and governmental authorities; and •poorly developed bankruptcy procedures that are subject to abuse. As is true of civil law systems, judicial precedents generally have no binding effect on subsequent decisions. Not all Russian legislation and court decisions are readily available to the public or organized in a manner that facilitates understanding. The Russian judicial system can be slow, and enforcement of court orders can in practice be very difficult. All of these factors make judicial decisions in Russia difficult to predict and effective redress uncertain. Additionally, court claims and governmental prosecutions are sometimes used in furtherance of political aims. In February 2014, a new law came into force amending the Russian Constitution and merging the Higher Arbitrary court with the Higher Court, creating a new Higher Court. As of the date of this Annual Report, the new Higher Court is in the process of being established. We cannot predict the effect of this merger on judicial practice and the Russian judicial system. The untested nature of much of recent Russian legislation and the rapid evolution of the Russian legal system in ways that may not always coincide with market developments may result in ambiguities, inconsistencies and anomalies in the Russian legal system. For example, the new law "On protection of children from harmful information" does not contain any detailed regulation as to how this law will be implemented. Although we believe that we are in compliance with this law, there is very limited practice of implementation of this law in Russia, which may lead to a high degree of discretion of governmental authorities in its implementation, as well as abuse of this law. We cannot guarantee that authorities will not interpret this law or implement it in a way that may adversely affect us. In April 2013, a new law came into force amending the federal law "Improving Regulation of Mass Media, Television and Radio Broadcasting" as well as the administrative code, prohibiting the use of abusive language in mass media as well as increasing the penalties for doing so. We believe that these amendments will not affect our channels as long as we constantly monitor our content, but since the term "abusive language" is not defined and is subject to interpretation, we cannot guarantee that we will not be faced with claims that we have violated this new law or that we will be able to defend these claims successfully. Such uncertainties in the Russian legal system could affect our ability to enforce our rights under our licenses and under our contracts, or to defend ourselves against claims by others, including government authorities. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that regulators, judicial authorities or third parties will not challenge our compliance with applicable laws, decrees and regulations. Selective or arbitrary government action may have an adverse effect on our business and the value of our common stock. Government authorities have a high degree of discretion in Russia and have at times exercised their discretion selectively or arbitrarily, without hearing or prior notice, and sometimes in a manner that is influenced by political or commercial considerations. The government also has the power, in certain circumstances, to interfere with the performance of, nullify or terminate contracts. Selective or arbitrary actions have included withdrawal of licenses, sudden and unexpected tax audits, criminal prosecutions and civil actions. Federal and local government entities have also used common defects in 33 Table of Contents documentation as pretexts for court claims and other demands to invalidate and/or to void transactions, apparently for political purposes. We cannot assure you that regulators, judicial authorities or third parties will not challenge our compliance (including that of our subsidiaries) with applicable laws, decrees and regulations in Russia. Selective or arbitrary government action could have a material adverse effect on our business and on the value of our common stock. If the Russian Federal Anti-monopoly Service were to conclude that we acquired or created a new company in contravention of anti-monopoly legislation, it could impose fines or administrative sanctions and could require the divestiture of such company or other assets. Our business has grown in part through the acquisition and establishment of companies, many of which transactions required the prior approval of, or subsequent notification to, the Russian Federal Anti-monopoly Service or its predecessor agencies (the "FAS"). The relevant legislation restricts the acquisition or establishment of companies by groups of companies or individuals acting in concert without the required approval or notification. This legislation is vague in parts and subject to varying interpretations. If the FAS were to conclude that an acquisition or establishment of a new company had been effected in contravention of applicable legislation and competition has been reduced as a result, it could impose administrative sanctions and require the divestiture of such company or other assets, adversely affecting our business strategy and our results of operations. If one of our principal subsidiaries is forced into liquidation due to negative net assets, our results of operations could suffer. If at the end of any fiscal year a Russian company's net assets as determined in accordance with Russian accounting regulations are below the minimum amount of charter capital required by Russian law, the company is required to convene a shareholders meeting to adopt a decision to liquidate. If it fails to do so within a "reasonable period," the company's creditors may request early termination or acceleration of the company's obligations to them, as well as damages, and governmental authorities may seek to cause the involuntary liquidation of the company. Under an earlier version of this law, the company's shareholders could also bring an action to force the liquidation of the company. It is unclear under Russian law whether a historical violation of this requirement may be retroactively cured, even if a company later comes into compliance with the requirement. On occasion, Russian courts have ordered the involuntary liquidation of a company for having negative net assets even if the company has continued to fulfill its obligations and had net assets in excess of the minimum amount at the time of liquidation. Certain of our regional subsidiaries have had, and continue to have, negative equity as reported in their respective Russian statutory financial statements. None of these companies has applied for voluntary liquidation. We are currently taking steps to remedy the negative net asset value of these subsidiaries, but we have not included it as a contingency in our financial statements because we believe that, so long as these subsidiaries continue to fulfill their obligations, the risk of their forced liquidation is remote. There has been no judicial or other official interpretation of what constitutes a "reasonable period" within which a company must act to liquidate. If any of our subsidiaries were to be liquidated involuntarily, we would be forced to reorganize the operations we currently conduct through that subsidiary. The liquidation of any of the subsidiaries in our Television Station Groups would result in the termination of their existing broadcast and other licenses, and we cannot assure you that we would be able to secure new licenses needed for these stations to continue to operate. Accordingly, any liquidation could have a material adverse effect on our business. 34 Table of Contents Russian law requires the approval of certain transactions by the minority shareholders of our subsidiaries, including several of our owned-and-operated television stations, and failure to receive this approval could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We own less than 100% of many of our owned-and-operated stations. Under Russian law, certain transactions defined as "interested party transactions" require approval by disinterested members of the board of directors or disinterested shareholders of the companies involved. Our owned-and-operated stations that have other shareholders engage in numerous transactions with us that require interested party transaction approvals in accordance with Russian law. Due to the formulistic nature of much of Russian law, these transactions have not always been properly approved, and therefore may be contested by minority shareholders. In the event that these other shareholders were successfully to contest past interested party transactions, or prevent the approval of such transactions in the future, our flexibility in operating these television stations could be limited and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Certain transactions between members of our consolidated corporate group may constitute interested party transactions under Russian law even when the companies involved are wholly owned by us. Although we generally endeavor to obtain all corporate approvals required under Russian law to consummate these transactions, we have not always applied special approval procedures in connection with our consummation of transactions with or between our subsidiaries. In the event that a claim is filed in relation to certain transactions with or between our subsidiaries, such transactions are found to have been interested party transactions, and we are found to have failed to obtain the appropriate approvals, such transactions may be declared invalid. The unwinding of any transactions concluded with or between our subsidiaries may have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. Shareholder liability under Russian legislation could cause us to become liable for the obligations of our subsidiaries. The Russian Civil Code, the Law on Joint Stock Companies and the Law on Limited Liability Companies generally provide that shareholders in a Russian joint stock company or limited liability company are not liable for the obligations of the company and bear only the risk of loss of their investment. This may not be the case, however, when one person (an "effective parent") is capable of determining decisions made by another (an "effective subsidiary"). The effective parent bears joint and several responsibilities for transactions concluded by the effective subsidiary in carrying out these decisions in certain circumstances. In addition, a parent is secondarily liable for an effective subsidiary's debts if an effective subsidiary becomes insolvent or bankrupt as a result of the action or inaction of the parent. This is the case no matter how the parent's capability to determine decisions of the effective subsidiary arises. For example, this liability could arise through ownership of voting securities or by contract. In these instances, other shareholders of the effective subsidiary may claim compensation for the effective subsidiary's losses from the parent that caused the effective subsidiary to act or fail to act, knowing that such action or inaction would result in losses. Accordingly, in CTC Media's position as a parent, it could be liable in some cases for the debts of its effective subsidiaries. Although the total indebtedness of CTC Media's effective subsidiaries is currently immaterial, it is possible that CTC Media could face material liability in this regard in the future, which could materially adversely affect our business and our results of operations. Changes in the Russian tax system or arbitrary or unforeseen application of existing rules could materially adversely affect our financial condition. Our tax burden may become greater than the estimated amount that we have expensed to date and paid or accrued on our balance sheets. Russian tax authorities have often been arbitrary and 35 Table of Contents aggressive in their interpretation of tax laws and their many ambiguities, as well as in their enforcement and collection activities. Many companies are often forced to negotiate their tax bills with tax inspectors who may demand higher taxes than applicable law appears to provide. Any additional tax liability, as well as any unforeseen changes in Russian tax laws, could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations or cash flows in a particular period. We have at times accrued substantial amounts for contingent tax liabilities, a substantial portion of which accruals we have reversed as contingencies have been resolved favorably or changes in circumstances have occurred. The amounts currently accrued for tax contingencies may not be sufficient to meet any liability we may ultimately face. From time to time, we also identify tax contingencies for which we have not provided an accrual. Such unaccrued tax contingencies could materialize and require us to pay additional amounts of tax. Under Russian accounting and tax principles, financial statements of our Russian companies are not consolidated for tax purposes. As a result, each Russian-registered entity in our group pays its own Russian taxes and we cannot offset the profits or losses in any single entity against the profits and losses of any other entity. Consequently, our overall effective tax rate may increase as we expand our operations, unless we are able to maintain an effective corporate structure that minimizes the effect of these Russian accounting and tax norms. The Russian tax system imposes additional burdens and costs on our operations in Russia, and complicates our tax planning and related business decisions. The uncertainty involved potentially exposes us to significant fines, penalties and enforcement measures despite our best efforts at compliance, which could result in a greater than expected tax burden on our subsidiaries. These factors raise the risk of a sudden imposition of arbitrary or onerous taxes on our operations in Russia. This could adversely affect our business and the value of our common stock. Any US or other foreign judgments that may be obtained against us may be difficult to enforce against us in Russia. Although CTC Media is a Delaware corporation, subject to suit in US federal and other courts, most of our assets are located in Russia, and all of our directors and their assets are located outside the United States. Although arbitration awards are generally enforceable in Russia, judgments obtained in the United States or in other foreign courts, including those with respect to US federal securities law claims, may not be enforceable in Russia. There is no mutual recognition treaty between the United States and the Russian Federation, and no Russian federal law provides for the recognition and enforcement of foreign court judgments. Therefore, it may be difficult to enforce any US or other foreign court judgment obtained against our company, any of our operating subsidiaries or any of our directors in Russia. Risks relating to doing business elsewhere in the CIS We face similar risks in other countries of the CIS. In addition to Russia, we currently have operations in other countries in the CIS, including Kazakhstan and Moldova. We may acquire additional operations in other countries of the CIS. In many respects, the risks inherent in transacting business in these countries are similar to those in Russia, especially those risks set out above in "—Risks relating to doing business and investing in Russia". Emerging markets such as Russia and other CIS countries are subject to greater risks than more developed markets, including legal, economic and political risks. Investors in emerging markets such as Russia and other CIS countries should be aware that these markets are subject to greater risk than more developed markets, including in some cases legal, economic and political risks. Investors should also note that emerging economies, such as the economies of Russia and Kazakhstan, are subject to rapid change and that the information set out 36 Table of Contents herein may become outdated relatively quickly. Furthermore, in doing business in various countries of the CIS, we face risks similar to (and sometimes greater than) those that we face in Russia. For example, the current circumstances involving Ukraine may have deleterious macroeconomic and other effects on the regions in which we operate, including, among other things, increased volatility in foreign currency values and a weaker overall business environment. Accordingly, investors should exercise care in evaluating the risks involved and must decide for themselves whether, in light of those risks, their investment is appropriate. Generally, investment in emerging markets is only suitable for sophisticated investors who fully appreciate the significance of the risks involved and investors are urged to consult with their own legal and financial advisors before making an investment in our shares. Risks relating to our stock The price of our common stock has experienced significant volatility in the past and may be volatile in the future. Our stock price has experienced significant volatility in the past and is likely to be volatile in the future. The stock market in general and, in particular, the market in emerging markets, like Russia, have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. This volatility has been more pronounced due to the turmoil in world financial markets, and most recently due to the current situation in Ukraine. As a result of this volatility, investors may not be able to sell their shares of our common stock at or above the price at which they purchase it. The market price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: •fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; •changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; •changes in market valuations of similar companies; •extraordinary expenses or charges in particular periods, including material impairment losses; •changes in economic, political and market conditions in Russia and globally; •changes in the audience shares of our networks; •changes in the structure of advertising sales in Russia; •public announcements by industry experts regarding trends in advertising spending in Russia and globally; and •announcements regarding our acquisition activities, if any. Moreover, only a relatively small number of shares of our common stock are currently actively traded in the public market. As of March 6, 2014, approximately 37% of our outstanding common stock was held by parties other than our directors, executive officers and principal stockholders and their respective affiliates. The limited liquidity of our common stock may have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation. 37 Table of Contents If equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. We do not control these analysts. The price of our stock could decline if one or more equity research analysts downgrade our stock or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. Insiders have substantial control over us and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control. As of March 6, 2014, our directors, executive officers and our two principal stockholders, and their respective affiliates, beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 64% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, may have the ability to determine the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these persons, acting together, may have the ability to control the management and affairs of our company. In particular, our two principal stockholders have entered into a voting arrangement that determines the composition of our board of directors. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could prevent or delay change-of-control transactions. Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our charter documents may make a change in control of our company more difficult. For example: •Stockholders' meetings may only be called by one of the Co-Chairmen of our board of directors, our Chief Executive Officer or the majority of the board of directors. •Our stockholders may not take action by written consent. •We have a classified board of directors, which means that our directors serve for staggered three-year terms and currently no more than three of our nine directors are elected each year. This structure may make it more difficult for an acquirer to take control of our company, which may make our company a less desirable acquisition target. Delaware law also prohibits a corporation from engaging in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock until the holder has held the stock for three years unless, among other possibilities, the board of directors approves the transaction or approves the transaction pursuant to which the holder became a 15% holder. Our board of directors may use this provision to prevent changes in our management. Our board of directors approved the transaction pursuant to which Telcrest became a holder of more than 15% of our capital stock, and accordingly this prohibition would not apply in the case of a business combination transaction with Telcrest. Under applicable Delaware law, our board of directors may adopt additional anti-takeover measures in the future. In addition, we are party to a stockholders' agreement with our two largest stockholders, MTG and Telcrest, pursuant to which each of these stockholders has agreed, with limited exceptions, not to acquire additional shares of our capital stock to the extent that such acquisition would cause its beneficial ownership to exceed 50% of the voting power of our outstanding shares without making a tender offer for all of our outstanding shares in compliance with the tender offer rules under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, unless it reaches this ownership level through the exercise of rights of first offer set forth in the stockholders' agreement. 38 Table of Contents If there are substantial sales of our common stock in the market by our existing stockholders, our stock price could decline. If our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock or the public market perceives that existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. The holders of approximately 64% of our common stock have the right under specified circumstances to require us to register their shares for resale to the public or participate in a registration of shares by us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 