1A. Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (“Form 10-K”). These factors should be considered in evaluating the forward-looking statements and undue reliance should not be placed on such statements. Northeast Community Bancorp, Inc. assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. PART I Item 1. BUSINESS General Northeast Community Bancorp, Inc. (“Northeast Community Bancorp” or the “Company”) is a federally chartered stock holding company established on July 5, 2006 to be the holding company for Northeast Community Bank (the “Bank”). Northeast Community Bancorp’s business activity is the ownership of the outstanding capital stock of the Bank. Northeast Community Bancorp does not own or lease any property but instead uses the premises, equipment and other property of the Bank with the payment of appropriate rental fees, as required by applicable law and regulations, under the terms of an expense allocation agreement. Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC (the “MHC”) is the Company’s federally chartered mutual holding company parent. As a mutual holding company, the MHC is a non-stock company that has as its members the depositors of Northeast Community Bank. The MHC does not engage in any business activity other than owning a majority of the common stock of Northeast Community Bancorp. So long as we remain in the mutual holding company form of organization, the MHC will own a majority of the outstanding shares of Northeast Community Bancorp. Northeast Community Bank was originally chartered in 1934. In 2006, Northeast Community Bank changed its name from “Fourth Federal Savings Bank” to “Northeast Community Bank.” We operate as a community-oriented financial institution offering traditional financial services to consumers and businesses in our market area and our lending territory. We attract deposits from the general public and use those funds to originate multi-family residential and mixed-use real estate and non-residential loans, which we hold for investment. We have been originating multi-family, mixed-use and non-residential real estate loans for over 75 years. In 2007, we established a new commercial and industrial loan department and have increased this portfolio from no commercial and industrial loans at March 31, 2007 to $43.3 million of commercial and industrial loans committed with $23.7 million drawn at December 31, 2011. We do not currently originate one-to four-family residential loans. We currently act as a residential mortgage loan broker for nationally recognized third-party mortgage originators. Under this program, our newly formed mortgage brokerage team markets one- to four-family residential mortgage loans, collects loan applications and forwards such documentation to a third-party mortgage originator who makes all credit decisions and originates all loans. We receive an agreed upon fee from the third-party mortgage originator upon the closing of the loan. In November 2007, we completed the acquisition of the operating assets of Hayden Financial Group, LLC, an investment advisory firm located in Westport, Connecticut. This acquisition gives us the ability to offer investment advisory and financial planning services under the name Hayden Wealth Management Group, a division of the Bank, through a networking arrangement with a registered broker-dealer and investment advisor. 1 Table of Contents On December 27, 2011, the Bank submitted an application to the New York Department of Financial Services to convert its charter from a federally-chartered savings bank to a New York State chartered savings bank. The MHC and the Company will retain their federal charters following the Bank’s charter conversion. Subject to receiving the necessary regulatory approvals, the charter conversion is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2012. Available Information Our website address is www.necommunitybank.com. Information on our website should not be considered a part of this Form 10-K. Market Area We are headquartered in White Plains, New York, which is located in Westchester County and we operate through our main office in White Plains (which also serves as a loan production office), our four full-service branch offices in the New York City boroughs of Manhattan (New York County) and Bronx (Bronx County), our two full-service branch offices in Danvers (Essex County) and Plymouth (Plymouth County), Massachusetts and our loan production office in Danvers, Massachusetts. We generate deposits through our main office and six branch offices. We conduct lending activities throughout the Northeastern United States, including New York, Massachusetts, New Jersey, Connecticut and Pennsylvania. Our primary market area includes a population base with a broad cross section of wealth, employment and ethnicity. We operate in markets that generally have experienced relatively slow demographic growth, a characteristic typical of mature urban markets located throughout the Northeast region. New York County is a relatively affluent market, reflecting the influence of Wall Street along with the presence of a broad spectrum of Fortune 500 companies. Comparatively, Bronx County is home to a broad socioeconomic spectrum, with a significant portion of the respective populations employed in relatively low and moderate wage blue collar jobs. Westchester County is also an affluent market, serving as a desired suburban location for commuting into New York City as well as reflecting growth of higher paying jobs in the county, particularly in White Plains. The counties in which the Danvers and Plymouth offices currently operate include a mixture of rural, suburban and urban markets. The economies of these areas were historically based on manufacturing, but, similar to many areas of the country, the underpinnings of these economies are now more service oriented, with employment spread across many economic sectors including service, finance, health-care, technology, real estate and government. While each of the states in our lending area has different economic characteristics, our customer base in these states tends to be similar to our customer base in New York and is comprised mostly of owners of low to moderate income apartment buildings or non-residential real estate in low to moderate income areas. Outside the State of New York, our largest concentration of real estate loans is in Massachusetts. Competition We face significant competition for the attraction of deposits. The New York and Boston metropolitan areas have a significant concentration of financial institutions, including large money center and regional banks, community banks and credit unions. Over the past 10 years, consolidation of the banking industry in the New York and Boston metropolitan areas has continued, resulting in larger and increasingly efficient competitors. We also face competition for depositors’ funds from money market funds, mutual funds and other corporate and government securities. At June 30, 2011, which is the most recent date for which data is available from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, we held less than 1.00% of the deposits in each of the counties in New York and Massachusetts in which our offices are located. 2 Table of Contents We also face significant competition for the origination of loans. Our competition for loans comes primarily from financial institutions in our lending territory, and, to a lesser extent, from other financial service providers such as insurance companies, hedge funds and mortgage companies. As our lending territory is based around densely populated areas surrounding urban centers, we face significant competition from regional banks, savings banks and commercial banks in the New York and Boston metropolitan areas as well as in the other states that we designate as our lending territory. The competition for loans that we encounter, as well as the types of institutions with which we compete, varies from time to time depending upon certain factors, including the general availability of lendable funds and credit, general and local economic conditions, current interest rate levels, volatility in the mortgage markets and other factors which are not readily predictable. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Technological advances, for example, have lowered the barriers to market entry, allowed banks and other lenders to expand their geographic reach by providing services over the Internet and made it possible for non-depository institutions to offer products and services that traditionally have been provided by banks. Competition for deposits and the origination of loans could limit our future growth. Lending Activities General. We originate loans primarily for investment purposes. The largest segment of our loan portfolio is multi-family residential real estate loans. We also originate mixed-use real estate loans and non-residential loans and in 2007 we began originating commercial and industrial loans. To a limited degree, we make consumer loans. We currently do not originate one- to four-family residential loans. We consider our lending territory to be the Northeastern United States, including New York, Massachusetts, New Jersey, Connecticut, and Pennsylvania. Due to market conditions, we discontinued purchasing participation interests in construction loans effective the first quarter of 2009 and in 2009, we ceased originating all construction loans due to prevailing conditions in the real estate market. Multi-family and Mixed-use Real Estate Loans. We offer adjustable rate mortgage loans secured by multi-family and mixed-use real estate. These loans are comprised primarily of loans on moderate income apartment buildings located in our lending territory and include, loans on cooperative apartment buildings (in the New York area), and loans for Section 8 multi-family housing. In New York, most of the apartment buildings that we lend on are rent-stabilized. Mixed-use real estate loans are secured by properties that are intended for both residential and business use. Until 2004, our policy had been to originate multi-family and mixed-use real estate loans primarily in the New York metropolitan area. In January 2004, we opened our first location outside of New York and now originate multi-family and mixed-use real estate loans in several northeastern states. We originate a variety of adjustable-rate and balloon multi-family and mixed-use real estate loans. The adjustable-rate loans have fixed rates for a period of up to five years and then adjust every one, two, three or five years thereafter, based on the terms of the loan. Maturities on these loans can be up to 15 years, and typically they amortize over a 20 to 30-year period. Interest rates on our adjustable-rate loans are adjusted to a rate that equals the applicable one-, two-, three- or five-year constant maturity U.S. Treasury index plus a margin. The balloon loans have a maximum maturity of five years. The lifetime interest rate cap is five percentage points over the initial interest rate of the loan (four percentage points for loans with one-, two- and three-year terms). Due to the nature of our borrowers and our lending niche, the typical multi-family or mixed-use real estate loan refinances within the first five-year period and, in doing so, generates prepayment penalties ranging from five points to one point of the outstanding loan balance. Under our loan-refinancing program, borrowers who are current under the terms and conditions of their contractual obligations can apply to refinance their existing loans to the rates and terms then offered on new loans after the payment of their contractual prepayment penalties. These refinances are not considered troubled debt restructures. In making multi-family and mixed-use real estate loans, we primarily consider the net operating income generated by the real estate to support the debt service, the financial resources, income level and managerial expertise of the borrower, the marketability of the property and our lending experience with the borrower. We typically require a personal guarantee of the borrower, but may not do so depending on the location, building condition or credit profile. We rate the property underlying the loan as Class A, B or C. Our current policy is to require a minimum debt service coverage ratio (the ratio of earnings after subtracting all operating expenses to debt service payments) of 1.25x depending on the rating of the underlying property. On multi-family and mixed-use real estate loans, our current policy is to finance up to 75% of the lesser of the appraised value or purchase price of the property securing the loan on purchases and refinances of Class A and B properties and up to 65% of the lesser of the appraised value or purchase price for properties that are rated Class C. Properties securing multi-family and mixed-use real estate loans are appraised by independent appraisers, inspected by us and generally require Phase 1 environmental surveys. 3 Table of Contents We have been originating multi-family and mixed-use real estate loans in the New York market area for more than 75 years. In the New York market area, our ability to continue to grow our portfolio is dependent on the continuation of our relationships with mortgage brokers, as the multi-family and mixed-use real estate loan market is primarily broker driven. We have longstanding relationships with mortgage brokers in the New York market area, who are familiar with our lending practices and our underwriting standards. We also deal directly with building owners throughout our lending territory. In the Massachusetts market area, the primary source of mortgage loan originations are from personal contacts by our loan officers, referrals from existing customers and advertising. We generally retain for our portfolio all of the loans that we originate in the Massachusetts market area. The majority of the multi-family real estate loans in our portfolio are secured by twenty unit to one hundred unit apartment buildings. At December 31, 2011, the majority of our mixed-use real estate loans are secured by properties that are at least 75% residential, but contain some non-residential space. On December 31, 2011, the largest outstanding multi-family real estate loan had a balance of $8.6 million and was performing according to its terms at December 31, 2011. This loan is secured by a 216 unit apartment complex located in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The largest mixed-use real estate loan had a balance of $3.9 million and was performing according to its terms at December 31, 2011. This loan is secured by a mixed-use building with 10 apartment units and 5 commercial units located in Jamaica, New York. As of December 31, 2011, the average loan balance in our multi-family and mixed-use portfolio was approximately $701,000. Non-residential Real Estate Loans. Our non-residential real estate loans are generally secured by office buildings, medical facilities and retail shopping centers that are primarily located within our lending territory. Our non-residential real estate loans are structured in a manner similar to our multi-family and mixed-use real estate loans, typically at a fixed rate of interest for three to five years and then a rate that adjusts every three to five years over the term of the loan, which is typically 15 years. Interest rates and payments on these loans generally are based on the one-, two-, three- or five-year constant maturity U. S. Treasury index plus a margin. The lifetime interest rate cap is five percentage points over the initial interest rate of the loan (four percentage points for loans with one-, two- and three-year terms). Loans are secured by first mortgages that generally do not exceed 75% of the property’s appraised value. Properties securing non-residential real estate loans are appraised by independent appraisers and inspected by us. We also charge prepayment penalties, with five points of the outstanding loan balance generally being charged on loans that refinance in the first year of the mortgage, scaling down to one point on loans that refinance in year five. These loans are typically repaid or the term extended before maturity, in which case a new rate is negotiated to meet market conditions and an extension of the loan is executed for a new term with a new amortization schedule. Our non-residential real estate loans tend to refinance within the first five-year period. Our assessment of credit risk and our underwriting standards and procedures for non-residential real estate loans are similar to those applicable to our multi-family and mixed-use real estate loans. In reaching a decision on whether to make a non-residential real estate loan, we consider the net operating income of the property, the borrower’s expertise, credit history and profitability and the value of the underlying property. In addition, with respect to rental properties, we will also consider the term of the lease and the credit quality of the tenants. We have generally required that the properties securing non-residential real estate loans have debt service coverage ratios (the ratio of earnings after subtracting all operating expenses to debt service payments) of at least 1.30x. Phase 1 environmental surveys and property inspections are required for all loans. 4 Table of Contents At December 31, 2011, we had $83.6 million in non-residential real estate loans outstanding, or 23.4% of total loans. Due to market conditions, we did not originate any non-residential real estate loans during 2010. During the second half of 2011, we resumed originations of non-residential real estate. At December 31, 2011, the largest outstanding non-residential real estate loan had an outstanding balance of $5.1 million. This loan is secured by a multi-tenant, two-story commercial building located in New York, New York, and was performing according to its terms at December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2011, the largest outstanding non-residential real estate loan relationship with one borrower was comprised of six loans totaling $12.3 million secured by six office buildings located in the Syracuse, New York area. These six loans were performing according to their terms at December 31, 2011. As of December 31, 2011, the average balance of loans in our non-residential loan portfolio was $1.0 million. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2010, we had one note, which was treated as a loan in our non-residential loan portfolio with a net present value of $10.9 million that we received in connection with the sale of our First Avenue branch office building. On November 4, 2011 the note, including expenses and interest, was paid off. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Sale of New York City Branch Office.” Equity Lines of Credit on Real Estate Loans. Northeast Community Bank offers equity lines of credit on multi-family, mixed-use and non-residential real estate properties on which it holds the first mortgage. For existing borrowers only, we offer an equity line of credit program secured by a second mortgage on the borrower’s multi-family and mixed-use property. All lines of credit are underwritten separately from the first mortgage and support debt service ratios and loan-to-value ratios that when combined with the first mortgage meet or exceed our current underwriting standards for multi-family and mixed-use real estate loans. Borrowers typically hold these lines in reserve and use them for ongoing property improvements or to purchase additional properties when the opportunity arises. Our equity lines of credit are typically interest only for the first five years and then the remaining term of the line of credit is tied to the remaining term on the first mortgage on the multi-family or mixed-use property. After the first five years, a payment of both principal and interest is required. Interest rates and payments on our equity lines of credit are indexed to the prime rate as published in The Wall Street Journal and adjusted as the prime rate changes. Interest rate adjustments on equity lines of credit are limited to a specified maximum percentage over the initial interest rate. Commercial and Industrial (C&I) Loans. Continuing our plan to diversify our portfolio, both geographically and by product type, in March 2007 we hired two individuals with significant commercial and industrial lending experience, a senior lending officer and a commercial underwriter, for our new commercial and industrial lending department. Interest rates and payments on our commercial and industrial loans are typically indexed to the prime rate as published in the Wall Street Journal and adjusted as the prime rate changes. Our commercial and industrial loan portfolio increased from $28.9 million with $12.1 million drawn at December 31, 2010 to $43.3 million of commercial and industrial loans committed with $23.7 million drawn at December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2011, the largest outstanding commercial and industrial loan was a line of credit totaling $3.0 million, with a $2.6 million outstanding balance and a remaining available line of credit of $384,000. This loan is secured by the assets of a mechanical construction business. At December 31, 2011, the largest outstanding commercial and industrial loan relationship with one borrower totaled $3.0 million and was comprised of one term loan with an outstanding balance of $1.2 million and one line of credit with an outstanding balance of $1.8 million. The loans are secured by the assets of a construction business. 5 Table of Contents At December 31, 2011, the largest outstanding commercial and industrial line of credit relationship with one borrower was comprised of two lines of credit totaling $5.8 million, with outstanding balances totaling $2.2 million and remaining available lines of credit totaling $3.6 million. One of the lines of credit totaling $3.8 million, with a $2.2 million outstanding balance and a remaining available line of $1.6 million, is the Company’s largest commercial and industrial line of credit. The two lines of credit serve as a warehousing line of credit for a Small Business Administration guaranteed loan originator located in New York City and are secured by these Small Business Administration loans. All the aforementioned commercial and industrial loans were performing according to their terms at December 31, 2011. Construction Loans. Historically, we have purchased participation interests in loans to finance the construction of multi-family, mixed-use and non-residential buildings. We perform our own underwriting analysis on each of our participation interests before purchasing such loans. Construction loans are typically for twelve to twenty-four month terms and pay interest only during that period. All construction loans are underwritten as if they will be rental properties and must meet our normal debt service and loan to value ratio requirements on an as completed basis. The outstanding balance of construction loan participation interests purchased totaled $9.1 million at December 31, 2011. Due to current market conditions, we discontinued purchasing participation interests in construction loans effective the first quarter of 2009. At December 31, 2011, the largest outstanding construction loan participation consisted of four loans with an aggregate outstanding balance of $7.7 million (net of loans in process of $85,000) for a total potential exposure of $7.7 million. This balance represents our 25% participation ownership of the loans. These loans are secured by a hotel. As of December 31, 2011, the loans were delinquent and in process of foreclosure. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for additional discussion on our nonaccrual loans. Consumer Loans. We offer loans secured by savings accounts or certificates of deposit (share loans) and overdraft protection for checking accounts which is linked to statement savings accounts and has the ability to transfer funds from the statement savings account to the checking account when needed to cover overdrafts. At December 31, 2011, our portfolio of consumer loans was $68,000, or 0.02% of total loans. Loan Underwriting Risks Adjustable-Rate Loans. While we anticipate that adjustable-rate loans will better offset the adverse effects of an increase in interest rates as compared to fixed-rate loans, the increased payments required of adjustable-rate loan borrowers in a rising interest rate environment could cause an increase in delinquencies and defaults. The marketability of the underlying property also may be adversely affected in a high interest rate environment. In addition, although adjustable-rate loans help make our loan portfolio more responsive to changes in interest rates, the extent of this interest sensitivity is limited by the lifetime interest rate adjustment limits. Multi-family, Mixed-use and Non-residential Real Estate Loans. Loans secured by multi-family, mixed-use and non-residential real estate generally have larger balances and involve a greater degree of risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Of primary concern in multi-family, mixed-use and non-residential real estate lending is the current and potential cash flow of the property and the borrower’s demonstrated ability to operate that type of property. Payments on loans secured by income properties often depend on successful operation and management of the properties. As a result, repayment of such loans may be subject to a greater extent than residential real estate loans to adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy. To monitor cash flows on income producing properties, we require borrowers to provide annual financial statements for all multi-family, mixed-use and non-residential real estate loans. In reaching a decision on whether to make a multi-family, mixed-use or non-residential real estate loan, we consider the net operating income of the property, the borrower’s expertise, credit history and profitability and the value of the underlying property. In addition, with respect to non-residential real estate properties, we also consider the term of the lease and the quality of the tenants. An appraisal of the real estate used as collateral for the real estate loan is also obtained as part of the underwriting process. We have generally required that the properties securing these real estate loans have debt service coverage ratios (the ratio of earnings after subtracting all operating expenses to debt service payments) of at least 1.30x. In underwriting these loans, we take into account projected increases in interest rates in determining whether a loan meets our debt service coverage ratios at the higher interest rate under the adjustable rate mortgage. Environmental surveys and property inspections are utilized for all loans. 6 Table of Contents Commercial and Industrial Loans. Unlike residential mortgage loans, which are generally made on the basis of a borrower’s ability to make repayment from the operation and cash flow from the real property whose value tends to be more ascertainable, commercial and industrial loans are of higher risk and tend to be made on the basis of a borrower’s ability to make repayment from the cash flow of the borrower’s business. As a result, the availability of funds for the repayment of commercial and industrial loans may depend substantially on the success of the business itself. Further, any collateral securing such loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value. Construction Loans. In past years, we had purchased participation interests in loans to finance the construction of multi-family, mixed-use and non-residential buildings. Due to market conditions, we discontinued purchasing participation interests in construction loans effective the first quarter of 2009. Construction financing affords us the opportunity to achieve higher interest rates and fees with shorter terms to maturity than does residential mortgage loans. However, construction financing is generally considered to involve a higher degree of risk of loss than long-term financing on improved, occupied real estate due to (1) the increased difficulty at the time the loan is made of estimating the building costs and the selling price of the property to be built; (2) the increased difficulty and costs of monitoring the loan; (3) the higher degree of sensitivity to increases in market rates of interest; and (4) the increased difficulty of working out loan problems. We have sought to minimize this risk by limiting the amount of construction loan participation interests outstanding at any time and by spreading the participations among multi-family, mixed-use and non-residential projects. We perform our own underwriting analysis on each of our construction loan participation interests before purchasing such loans and therefore believe there is no greater risk of default on these obligations than on a construction loan originated by the Bank. See “Mortgage and Construction Loan Originations and Participations” below. Consumer Loans. Because the only consumer loans we offer are secured by passbook savings accounts, certificates of deposit accounts or statement savings accounts, we do not believe these loans represent a risk of loss to the Bank. Mortgage and Construction Loan Originations and Participations. Our mortgage loan originations come from a number of sources. In the New York Region, the primary source of mortgage loan originations are referrals from brokers, existing customers, advertising and personal contacts by our loan officers. Over the years, we have developed working relationships with many mortgage brokers in our lending territory. Under the terms of the agreements with such brokers, the brokers refer potential loans to us. The loans are underwritten and approved by us utilizing our underwriting policies and standards. The mortgage brokers typically receive a fee from the borrower upon the funding of the loans by us. Historically, mortgage brokers have been the source of the majority of the multi-family, mixed-use and non-residential real estate loans originated by us. We generally retain for our portfolio all of the loans that we originate in the New York Region. In the Massachusetts market area, the primary source of mortgage loan originations are from personal contacts by our loan officers, referrals from existing customers and advertising. We generally retain for our portfolio all of the loans that we originate in the Massachusetts market area. During 2011, we continued our policy of not purchasing participation interests in loans to finance the construction of multi-family, mixed-use and non-residential properties. Consequently, the outstanding balance of the construction loan participation interests purchased decreased to $9.1 million at December 31, 2011. We perform our own underwriting analysis on each of our participation interests before purchasing such loans and therefore believe there is no greater risk of default on these obligations. However, in a purchased participation loan, we do not service the loan and thus are subject to the policies and practices of the lead lender with regard to monitoring delinquencies, pursuing collections and instituting foreclosure proceedings, all of which are reviewed and approved in advance of any participation transaction. We review all of the documentation relating to any loan in which we participate, including annual financial statements provided by a borrower. Additionally, we receive monthly statements on the loan from the lead lender. Commercial and Industrial (C&I) Loan Originations. We originate commercial and industrial loans from contacts made by our commercial loan officers in New York and Massachusetts. Our commercial and industrial lending department does not utilize the services of loan brokers. 7 Table of Contents The Bank will consider granting credit to commercial and industrial businesses located within our lending area, which is defined as the Northeastern United States. The Bank will consider the credit needs of businesses located in our lending area if we can effectively service the credit and if the customer has a strong financial position. We will consider loans to small businesses with revenues normally not to exceed $65.0 million. The small business may be one that manufactures wholesale or retail products and/or services. Generally, we will consider loans to small businesses such as: retail sales and services, such as grocery, restaurants, clothing, furniture, appliances, hardware, automotive parts, automobiles and trucks; wholesale businesses, such as automotive parts and industrial parts and equipment; manufacturing businesses, such as tool and die shops and commercial manufacturers and contractors with strong financials and well-known principals, attorneys, accountants, and dental groups. Mortgage and Construction Loan Approval Procedures and Authority. Our lending activities follow written, non-discriminatory, underwriting standards and loan origination procedures established by our board of directors and management. The board has granted the “Loan Committee” (which is comprised of the chief executive officer, chief financial officer, and an executive vice president) with loan approval authority for mortgage loans up to $2.0 million. Mortgage loans in amounts greater than $2.0 million must be approved by the Loan Committee and a majority of the non-employee directors. At each monthly meeting of the board of directors, the board ratifies all commitments issued, regardless of size. Commercial and Industrial Loan Approval Procedures and Authority. Our commercial and industrial lending activities follow written, non-discriminatory, underwriting standards and loan origination procedures established by our board of directors and management. The board has granted the “C&I Loan Committee” (which is comprised of the chief executive officer, chief financial officer, executive vice president, and the senior commercial and industrial analyst with loan approval authority for commercial and industrial loans up to $2.0 million. Loans in amounts greater than $2.0 million, in addition to being approved by the C&I Loan Committee, must be approved by a majority of the non-employee directors. At each monthly meeting of the board of directors, the board ratifies all commitments issued, regardless of size. Loan Commitments. We issue commitments for adjustable-rate loans conditioned upon the occurrence of certain events. Commitments to originate adjustable-rate loans are legally binding agreements to lend to our customers. Generally, our adjustable-rate loan commitments expire after 60 days. Investment Activities We have legal authority to invest in various types of liquid assets, including U.S. Treasury obligations, securities of various federal agencies and municipal governments, deposits at the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York and certificates of deposit of federally insured institutions. Within certain regulatory limits, we also may invest a portion of our assets in mutual funds. While we have the authority under applicable law to invest in derivative securities, we had no investments in derivative securities at December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2011, our interest-bearing deposits, securities, and short-term investments totaled $100.6 million and consisted primarily of $80.1 million in interest earning deposits with the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York, $12.6 million in mortgage-backed securities issued primarily by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae, $3.7 million in collateralized mortgage obligations issued primarily by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae, $2.6 million in short-term certificates of deposits at other financial institutions, and $1.6 million in Federal Home Loan Bank of New York common stock. At December 31, 2011, we had no investments in callable securities. Our investment management policy is designed to provide adequate liquidity to meet any reasonable decline in deposits and any anticipated increase in the loan portfolio through conversion of secondary reserves to cash and to provide safety of principal and interest through investment in securities under limitations and restrictions prescribed in banking regulations. Consistent with liquidity and safety requirements, our policy is designed to generate a significant amount of stable income and to provide collateral for advances and repurchase agreements. The policy is also designed to serve as a counter-cyclical balance to earnings in that the investment portfolio will absorb funds when loan demand is low and will infuse funds when loan demand is high. 8 Table of Contents Deposit Activities and Other Sources of Funds General. Deposits, borrowings and loan repayments are the major sources of our funds for lending and other investment purposes. Loan repayments are a relatively stable source of funds, while deposit inflows and outflows and loan prepayments are significantly influenced by general interest rates and money market conditions. Deposit Accounts. Except for certificates of deposit previously obtained through two nationwide listing services, as described below, substantially all of our depositors are residents of the States of New York and Massachusetts. We offer a variety of deposit accounts with a range of interest rates and terms. Our deposits principally consist of interest-bearing demand accounts (such as NOW and money market accounts), regular savings accounts, noninterest-bearing demand accounts (such as checking accounts) and certificates of deposit. At December 31, 2011, we did not utilize brokered deposits. Deposit account terms vary according to the minimum balance required, the time periods the funds must remain on deposit and the interest rate, among other factors. In determining the terms of our deposit accounts, we consider the rates offered by our competition, our liquidity needs, profitability to us, maturity matching deposit and loan products, and customer preferences and concerns. We generally review our deposit mix and pricing weekly. Our current strategy is to offer competitive rates and to be in the lower to middle of the market for rates on all types of deposit products. Our deposits are typically obtained from customers residing in or working in the communities in which our branch offices are located, and we rely on our long-standing relationships with our customers and competitive interest rates to retain these deposits. In the future, as we open new branches in other states, we expect our deposits will also be obtained from those states. We may also, in the future, utilize our website to attract deposits. Borrowings. We may utilize advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York to supplement our supply of investable funds. The Federal Home Loan Bank functions as a central reserve bank providing credit for its member financial institutions. As a member, we are required to own capital stock in the Federal Home Loan Bank and are authorized to apply for advances on the security of such stock and certain of our whole first mortgage loans and other assets (principally securities which are obligations of, or guaranteed by, the United States), provided certain standards related to creditworthiness have been met. Advances are made under several different programs, each having its own interest rate and range of maturities. Depending on the program, limitations on the amount of advances are based either on a fixed percentage of a bank’s net worth or on the Federal Home Loan Bank’s assessment of the bank’s creditworthiness. Mortgage Brokering Operations In 2011, we initiated a program under which we act as a residential mortgage loan broker for nationally recognized third-party mortgage originators. Under this program, our newly formed mortgage brokerage team markets one- to four-family residential mortgage loans, collects loan applications and forwards such documentation to the third-party mortgage originator who makes all credit decisions and originates all loans. We receive an agreed upon fee from the third-party mortgage originator upon the closing of the loan. We currently market these services solely through our branch network in Massachusetts. Our mortgage brokerage team is also available to meet with our customers and assist them with the application process. In addition to ensuring that our customers are provided with an extensive range of one- to four-family products, this arrangement is expected to enhance fee income and lessen our reliance on net interest income. Investment Advisory and Financial Planning Activities In November 2007, Northeast Community Bank purchased for $2.0 million the operating assets of Hayden Financial Group, LLC. The Bank formed a Division within the Bank known as Hayden Wealth Management Group, and the Division offers investment advisory and financial planning services through a networking arrangement with a registered broker-dealer and investment advisor. 9 Table of Contents Hayden Wealth Management Group performs a wide range of financial planning and investment advisory services based on the needs of a diversified client base including, but not limited to: wealth management based on a clients’ time dimension, risk aversion/tolerance, value system and specific purposes of a portfolio; transition planning from one career to another, especially the transition to retirement; conducting risk assessment and management on issues related to various kinds of insurance covered contingencies; and providing assistance relating to the ultimate disposition of assets. In this capacity, Hayden Wealth Management Group coordinates with estate planning attorneys as needed. Personnel As of December 31, 2011, we had 99 full-time employees and 5 part-time employees, none of whom is represented by a collective bargaining unit. We believe our relationship with our employees is good. Legal Proceedings On October 31, 2011 a complaint was filed by Stilwell Value Partners IV, L.P. in the Supreme Court of New York, New York County (the “Court”), against the Company, NorthEast Community Bancorp MHC (the “MHC”) and each of the directors of the Company and the MHC. The complaint alleges that the directors have breached their fiduciary duties by not expanding the Company board to allow for disinterested consideration of a “second-step” conversion of the MHC. As for relief, the complaint requests, among other things, that the Company’s board of directors be increased by at least three new members, that such new members be given sole responsibility to determine whether the Company should engage in a second-step conversion and that the Court order the Company to engage in a second-step conversion. The Company believes that the claims asserted are without merit and intends to vigorously defend the case. On December 14, 2011, the Company filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. The plaintiff has filed an opposition to the Company’s motion to dismiss and a cross motion for leave to amend the complaint in the event the court were to conclude that the initial complaint fails to state a viable claim. The Company expects there will be a ruling on the motion to dismiss in the near future. The Company and Bank are also subject to claims and litigation that arise primarily in the ordinary course of business. Based on information presently available and advice received from legal counsel representing the Company and Bank in connection with such claims and litigation, it is the opinion of management that the disposition or ultimate determination of such claims and litigation will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity of the Company. Subsidiaries Northeast Community Bancorp’s only subsidiary is Northeast Community Bank. The Bank has one wholly owned subsidiary, New England Commercial Properties LLC, a New York limited liability company. New England Commercial Properties was formed in October 2007 to facilitate the purchase or lease of real property by the Bank and to hold real estate owned acquired by the Bank through foreclosure or deed-in-lieu of foreclosure. As of December 31, 2011, New England Commercial Properties, LLC had no assets other than title to a foreclosed multi-family property located in Newark, New Jersey. REGULATION AND SUPERVISION General Northeast Community Bank, as an insured federal savings bank, is subject to extensive regulation, examination and supervision by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, as its primary federal regulator, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as its deposits insurer. Northeast Community Bank is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank System and its deposit accounts are insured up to applicable limits by the Deposit Insurance Fund managed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Northeast Community Bank must file reports with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation concerning its activities and financial condition in addition to obtaining regulatory approvals prior to entering into certain transactions such as mergers with, or acquisitions of, other financial institutions. There are periodic examinations by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and, under certain circumstances, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to evaluate Northeast Community Bank’s safety and soundness and compliance with various regulatory requirements. This regulation and supervision establishes a comprehensive framework of activities in which an institution can engage and is intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors. The regulatory structure also gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including policies with respect to the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. Any change in such policies, whether by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or Congress, could have a material adverse impact on Northeast Community Bancorp, Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC and Northeast Community Bank and their operations. 10 Table of Contents Northeast Community Bancorp and Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC, as savings and loan holding companies, are required to file certain reports with, are subject to examination by, and otherwise must comply with the rules and regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve Board”). Northeast Community Bancorp also is subject to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission under the federal securities laws. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) made extensive changes to the regulation of financial institutions, including Northeast Community Bank. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Office of Thrift Supervision was eliminated and responsibility for the supervision and regulation of federal savings associations such as Northeast Community Bank was transferred to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency on July 21, 2011. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency is the agency that is primarily responsible for the regulation and supervision of national banks. At the same time, the responsibility for supervising savings and loan holding companies like Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC and Northeast Community Bancorp was transferred to the Federal Reserve Board. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau as an independent bureau of the Federal Reserve Board. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau assumed responsibility for the implementation of the federal financial consumer protection and fair lending laws and regulations and has authority to impose new requirements. However, institutions of less than $10 billion in assets, such as Northeast Community Bank, will continue to be examined for compliance with consumer protection and fair lending laws and regulations by, and be subject to the enforcement authority of, their prudential regulators. Many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act require the issuance of regulations before their impact on operations can be fully assessed by management. However, there is a significant possibility that the Dodd-Frank Act will, at a minimum, result in increased regulatory burden and compliance costs for Northeast Community Bank, Northeast Community Bancorp and Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC. Certain of the regulatory requirements that are applicable to Northeast Community Bank, Northeast Community Bancorp and Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC are described below. This description of statutes and regulations is not intended to be a complete explanation of such statutes and regulations and their effects on Northeast Community Bank, Northeast Community Bancorp and Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the actual statutes and regulations. Regulation of Federal Savings Associations Business Activities. Federal law and regulations govern the activities of federal savings banks, such as Northeast Community Bank. These laws and regulations delineate the nature and extent of the business activities in which federal savings banks may engage. In particular, certain lending authority for federal savings banks, e.g., commercial, non-residential real property loans and consumer loans, is limited to a specified percentage of the institution’s capital or assets. The Dodd-Frank Act authorizes depository institutions to pay interest on demand deposits effective July 31, 2011. Depending upon competitive responses, that change could have an adverse impact on Northeast Community Bank’s interest expense. Capital Requirements. The applicable capital regulations require federal savings banks to meet three minimum capital standards: a 1.5% tangible capital to total assets ratio, a 4% leverage ratio (3% for institutions receiving the highest rating on the CAMELS examination rating system) and an 8% risk-based capital ratio. In addition, the prompt corrective action standards discussed below also establish, in effect, a minimum 2% tangible capital standard, a 4% leverage ratio (3% for institutions receiving the highest rating on the CAMELS system) and, together with the risk-based capital standard itself, a 4% Tier 1 risk-based capital standard. The regulations also require that, in meeting the tangible, leverage and risk-based capital standards, banks must generally deduct investments in and loans to subsidiaries engaged in activities as principal that are not permissible for a national bank. 11 Table of Contents The risk-based capital standard requires federal savings banks to maintain Tier 1 (core) and total capital (which is defined as core capital and supplementary capital, less certain specified deductions from total capital such as reciprocal holdings of depository institution capital, instruments and equity investments) to risk-weighted assets of at least 4% and 8%, respectively. In determining the amount of risk-weighted assets, all assets, including certain off-balance sheet assets, recourse obligations, residual interests and direct credit substitutes, are multiplied by a risk-weight factor of 0% to 100%, assigned by the capital regulation based on the risks believed inherent in the type of asset. Core (Tier 1) capital is generally defined as common stockholders’ equity (including retained earnings), certain noncumulative perpetual preferred stock and related surplus and minority interests in equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, less intangibles other than certain mortgage servicing rights and credit card relationships. The components of supplementary (Tier 2) capital currently include cumulative preferred stock, long-term perpetual preferred stock, mandatory convertible securities, subordinated debt and intermediate preferred stock, the allowance for loan and lease losses limited to a maximum of 1.25% of risk-weighted assets and up to 45% of unrealized gains on available-for-sale equity securities with readily determinable fair market values. Overall, the amount of supplementary capital included as part of total capital cannot exceed 100% of core capital. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency also has authority to establish individual minimum capital requirements in appropriate cases upon a determination that an institution’s capital level is or may become inadequate in light of the particular circumstances. At December 31, 2011, Northeast Community Bank exceeded each of these capital requirements. Prompt Corrective Regulatory Action. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency is required to take certain supervisory actions against undercapitalized institutions, the severity of which depends upon the institution’s degree of undercapitalization. Generally, a savings bank that has a ratio of total capital to risk weighted assets of less than 8%, a ratio of Tier 1 (core) capital to risk-weighted assets of less than 4% or a ratio of core capital to total assets of less than 4% (3% or less for institutions with the highest examination rating) is considered to be “undercapitalized.” A savings bank that has a total risk-based capital ratio less than 6%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of less than 3% or a leverage ratio that is less than 3% is considered to be “significantly undercapitalized” and a savings bank that has a tangible capital to assets ratio equal to or less than 2% is deemed to be “critically undercapitalized.” Subject to a narrow exception, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency is required to appoint a receiver or conservator within specified time frames for an institution that is “critically undercapitalized.” An institution must file a capital restoration plan with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency within 45 days of the date it receives notice that it is “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” or “critically undercapitalized.” Compliance with the plan must be guaranteed by any parent holding company. In addition, numerous mandatory supervisory actions become immediately applicable to an undercapitalized institution, including, but not limited to, increased monitoring by regulators and restrictions on growth, capital distributions and expansion. “Significantly undercapitalized” and “critically undercapitalized” institutions are subject to more extensive mandatory regulatory actions. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency could also take any one of a number of discretionary supervisory actions, including the issuance of a capital directive and the replacement of senior executive officers and directors. At December 31, 2011, Northeast Community Bank met the criteria for being considered “well-capitalized.” Community Reinvestment Act and Fair Lending Laws. All insured financial institutions have a responsibility under the Community Reinvestment Act and related regulations to help meet the credit needs of their communities, including low and moderate-income neighborhoods. In connection with its examination of a federal savings bank, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency is required to assess the savings bank’s record of compliance with the Community Reinvestment Act. In addition, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and the Fair Housing Act prohibit lenders from discriminating in their lending practices on the basis of characteristics specified in those statutes. An association’s failure to comply with the provisions of the Community Reinvestment Act could result in denial of certain corporate applications, such as branches or mergers, or restrictions on its activities. Responsibility for administering the Community Reinvestment Act, unlike other fair lending laws, is not being transferred to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. The Bank’s Community Reinvestment Act rating has been an “Outstanding” for the past 17 years. 12 Table of Contents Loans to One Borrower. Federal law provides that savings banks are generally subject to the limits on loans to one borrower applicable to national banks. Generally, subject to certain exceptions, savings banks may not make a loan or extend credit to a single or related group of borrowers in excess of 15% of its unimpaired capital and surplus. An additional amount may be lent, equal to 10% of unimpaired capital and surplus, if secured by specified readily-marketable collateral. Standards for Safety and Soundness. The federal banking agencies have adopted Interagency Guidelines prescribing Standards for Safety and Soundness in various areas such as internal controls and information systems, internal audit, loan documentation and credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth and quality, earnings and compensation, fees and benefits. The guidelines set forth the safety and soundness standards that the federal banking agencies use to identify and address problems at insured depository institutions before capital becomes impaired. If the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency determines that a savings bank fails to meet any standard prescribed by the guidelines, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency may require the savings bank to submit an acceptable plan to achieve compliance with the standard. Limitation on Capital Distributions. Federal regulations impose limitations upon all capital distributions by a savings bank, including cash dividends, payments to repurchase its shares and payments to stockholders of another institution in a cash-out merger. Under the regulations, an application to and the prior approval of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency is required before any capital distribution if the institution does not meet the criteria for “expedited treatment” of applications under Office of the Comptroller of the Currency regulations (i.e., generally, examination and Community Reinvestment Act ratings in the two top categories), the total capital distributions for the calendar year exceed net income for that year plus the amount of retained net income for the preceding two years, the institution would be undercapitalized following the distribution or the distribution would otherwise be contrary to a statute, regulation or agreement with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. If an application is not required, the institution must still provide 30 days prior written notice to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve Board”) of the capital distribution if, like Northeast Community Bank, it is a subsidiary of a holding company, as well as a written notice filing with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. If Northeast Community Bank’s capital were ever to fall below its regulatory requirements or the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency notified it that it was in need of increased supervision, its ability to make capital distributions could be restricted. In addition, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency could prohibit a proposed capital distribution that would otherwise be permitted by the regulation, if the agency determines that such distribution would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. Qualified Thrift Lender Test. Federal law requires savings banks to meet a qualified thrift lender test. Under the test, a savings association is required to either qualify as a “domestic building and loan association” under the Internal Revenue Code or maintain at least 65% of its “portfolio assets” (total assets less: (i) specified liquid assets up to 20% of total assets; (ii) intangibles, including goodwill; and (iii) the value of property used to conduct business) in certain “qualified thrift investments” (primarily multi-family residential mortgages and related investments, including certain mortgage-backed securities but also including education, credit card and small business loans) in at least 9 months out of each 12 month period. A savings bank that fails the qualified thrift lender test is subject to certain operating restrictions. The Dodd-Frank Act also specifies that failing the qualified thrift lender test is a violation of law that could result in an enforcement action and dividend limitations. As of December 31, 2011, Northeast Community Bank maintained 92.5% of its portfolio assets in qualified thrift investments and, therefore, met the qualified thrift lender test. Transactions with Related Parties. Federal law permits Northeast Community Bank to lend to, and engage in certain other transactions with (collectively, “covered transactions”), “affiliates” (i.e., generally, any company that controls or is under common control with an institution), including Northeast Community Bancorp and Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC and their other subsidiaries. The aggregate amount of covered transactions with any individual affiliate is limited to 10% of the capital and surplus of the savings institution. The aggregate amount of covered transactions with all affiliates is limited to 20% of the savings institution’s capital and surplus. Loans and other specified transactions with affiliates are required to be secured by collateral in an amount and of a type described in federal law. The purchase of low quality assets from affiliates is generally prohibited. Transactions with affiliates must be on terms and under circumstances that are at least as favorable to the institution as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with non-affiliated companies. In addition, savings banks are prohibited from lending to any affiliate that is engaged in activities that are not permissible for bank holding companies and no savings institution may purchase the securities of any affiliate other than a subsidiary. 13 Table of Contents The Sarbanes-Oxley Act generally prohibits loans by Northeast Community Bancorp to its executive officers and directors. However, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act contains a specific exemption from such prohibition for loans by Northeast Community Bank to its executive officers and directors in compliance with federal banking regulations. Federal regulations require that all loans or extensions of credit to executive officers and directors of insured institutions must be made on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with other persons and must not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavorable features. Northeast Community Bank is therefore prohibited from making any new loans or extensions of credit to executive officers and directors at different rates or terms than those offered to the general public. Notwithstanding this rule, federal regulations permit Northeast Community Bank to make loans to executive officers and directors at reduced interest rates if the loan is made under a benefit program generally available to all other employees and does not give preference to any executive officer or director over any other employee. Loans to executive officers are subject to additional limitations based on the type of loan involved. In addition, loans made to a director or executive officer in an amount that, when aggregated with the amount of all other loans to the person and his or her related interests, are in excess of the greater of $25,000 or 5% of Northeast Community Bank’s capital and surplus, up to a maximum of $500,000, must be approved in advance by a majority of the disinterested members of the board of directors. Enforcement. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency has primary enforcement responsibility over federal savings banks and has the authority to bring actions against the institution and all institution-affiliated parties, including stockholders, and any attorneys, appraisers and accountants who knowingly or recklessly participate in wrongful action likely to have an adverse effect on an insured institution. Formal enforcement action may range from the issuance of a capital directive or cease and desist order to removal of officers and/or directors to institution of receivership, conservatorship or termination of deposit insurance. Civil penalties cover a wide range of violations and can amount to $25,000 per day, or even $1 million per day in especially egregious cases. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has authority to recommend to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency that enforcement action be taken with respect to a particular savings institution. If action is not taken by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has authority to take such action under certain circumstances. Federal law also establishes criminal penalties for certain violations. Assessments. Federal savings banks were previously required to pay assessments to the Office of Thrift Supervision to fund its operations. The general assessments, paid on a semi-annual basis, are based upon the savings institution’s total assets, including consolidated subsidiaries, financial condition and complexity of its portfolio. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which succeeded the Office of Thrift Supervision, is similarly funded through assessments on regulated institutions. The Office of Thrift Supervision and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency assessments paid by Northeast Community Bank for the year ended December 31, 2011 totaled $62,000 and $38,000, respectively, for a total assessment of $100,000. Insurance of Deposit Accounts. Northeast Community Bank’s deposits are insured up to applicable limits, which have been increased to $250,000 per depositor, by the Deposit Insurance Fund of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation’s existing risk-based assessment system, insured institutions are assigned to one of four risk categories based on supervisory evaluations, regulatory capital levels and certain other factors, with less risky institutions paying lower assessments. Effective April 1, 2009, assessment rates ranged from seven to 77.5 basis points. On February 7, 2011, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation issued final rules, effective April 1, 2011, implementing changes to the assessment rules resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act. Initially, the base assessment rates will range from two and one half to 45 basis points. The rate schedules will automatically adjust in the future when the Deposit Insurance Fund reaches certain milestones. No institution may pay a dividend if in default of the federal deposit insurance assessment. 14 Table of Contents The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation imposed on all insured institutions a special emergency assessment of five basis points of total assets minus Tier 1 capital, as of June 30, 2009 (capped at ten basis points of an institution’s deposit assessment base), in order to cover losses to the Deposit Insurance Fund. That special assessment was collected on September 30, 2009. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation provided for similar assessments during the final two quarters of 2009, if deemed necessary. However, in lieu of further special assessments, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation required insured institutions to prepay estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 through the fourth quarter of 2012. The estimated assessments, which include an assumed annual assessment base increase of 5%, were recorded as a prepaid expense asset as of December 31, 2009. As of June 30, 2010, and each quarter thereafter, a charge to earnings is recorded for each regular assessment with an offsetting credit to the prepaid asset. Due to difficult economic conditions, deposit insurance per account owner was recently raised to $250,000. That change was made permanent by the Dodd-Frank Act. In addition, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation adopted an optional Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program by which, for a fee, non-interest bearing transaction accounts (defined to include IOLTA and certain NOW accounts) would receive unlimited insurance coverage until December 31, 2010 and certain senior unsecured debt issued by institutions and their holding companies between October 13, 2008 and June 30, 2010 would be guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation through June 30, 2012, or in some cases, December 31, 2012. Northeast Community Bank participates in the unlimited non-interest bearing transaction account coverage and Northeast Community Bank, Northeast Community Bancorp and Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC opted not to participate in the unsecured debt guarantee program. The Dodd-Frank Act extended the unlimited coverage for certain non-interest bearing transaction accounts through December 31, 2012. In addition to the assessment for deposit insurance, institutions are required to make payments on bonds issued in the late 1980s by the Financing Corporation to recapitalize a predecessor deposit insurance fund. That payment is established quarterly and during the four quarters ended December 31, 2011 averaged 1.04 basis points of assessable deposits. The Dodd-Frank Act increased the minimum target Deposit Insurance Fund ratio from 1.15% of estimated insured deposits to 1.35% of estimated insured deposits. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation must seek to achieve the 1.35% ratio by September 30, 2020. Insured institutions with assets of $10 billion or more are supposed to fund the increase. The Dodd-Frank Act eliminated the 1.5% maximum fund ratio, instead leaving it to the discretion of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has authority to increase insurance assessments. A significant increase in insurance premiums would likely have an adverse effect on the operating expenses and results of operations of Northeast Community Bank. Management cannot predict what insurance assessment rates will be in the future. Insurance of deposits may be terminated by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation upon a finding that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. The management of Northeast Community Bank does not know of any practice, condition or violation that might lead to termination of deposit insurance. Federal Home Loan Bank System. Northeast Community Bank is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank System, which consists of 12 regional Federal Home Loan Banks. The Federal Home Loan Bank provides a central credit facility primarily for member institutions. Northeast Community Bank, as a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York, is required to acquire and hold shares of capital stock in that Federal Home Loan Bank. Northeast Community Bank was in compliance with this requirement with an investment in Federal Home Loan Bank stock at December 31, 2011 of $1.6 million. Federal Home Loan Bank advances must be secured by specified types of collateral. 15 Table of Contents The Federal Home Loan Banks are required to provide funds for the resolution of insolvent thrifts in the late 1980s and to contribute funds for affordable housing programs. These requirements, as well as general financial results, could reduce the amount of dividends that the Federal Home Loan Banks pay to their members and could also result in the Federal Home Loan Banks imposing a higher rate of interest on advances to their members. If dividends were reduced, or interest on future Federal Home Loan Bank advances increased, our net interest income would likely also be reduced. Federal Reserve System. The Federal Reserve Board regulations require savings banks to maintain non-interest earning reserves against their transaction accounts (primarily Negotiable Order of Withdrawal (NOW) and regular checking accounts). The regulations generally provided that reserves be maintained against aggregate transaction accounts as follows: a 3% reserve ratio is assessed on net transaction accounts up to and including $55.2 million; a 10% reserve ratio is applied above $55.2 million. The first $10.7 million of otherwise reservable balances are exempted from the reserve requirements. The amounts are adjusted annually and, for 2011, required a 3% ratio for up to $58.8 million and an exception of $10.7 million. Northeast Community Bank complies with the foregoing requirements. Holding Company Regulation General. Northeast Community Bancorp and Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC are savings and loan holding companies within the meaning of federal law. As such, they are subject to Federal Reserve Board regulations, examinations, supervision, reporting requirements and regulations concerning corporate governance and activities. In addition, the Federal Reserve Board has enforcement authority over Northeast Community Bancorp and Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC and their non-savings institution subsidiaries. Among other things, this authority permits the Federal Reserve Board to restrict or prohibit activities that are determined to be a serious risk to Northeast Community Bank. As part of the Dodd-Frank Act regulatory restructuring, the responsibilities of the Office of Thrift Supervision as to savings and loan holding companies were transferred to the Federal Reserve Board on July 21, 2011. The Federal Reserve Board is the agency that regulates bank holding companies. Restrictions Applicable to Mutual Holding Companies. According to federal law and Federal Reserve Board regulations, a mutual holding company, such as Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC, may generally engage in the following activities: (1) investing in the stock of a bank; (2) acquiring a mutual savings bank through the merger of such savings bank into a bank subsidiary of such holding company or an interim bank subsidiary of such holding company; (3) merging with or acquiring another holding company, one of whose subsidiaries is a bank; and (4) any activity approved by the Federal Reserve Board for a bank holding company or financial holding company or previously approved by Federal Reserve Board for multiple savings and loan holding companies. In addition, mutual holding companies may engage in activities permitted for financial holding companies. Financial holding companies may engage in a broad array of financial service activities including insurance and securities. Federal law prohibits a savings and loan holding company, including a federal mutual holding company, from directly or indirectly, or through one or more subsidiaries, acquiring more than 5% of the voting stock of another savings association, or its holding company, without prior written approval of the Federal Reserve Board. Federal law also prohibits a savings and loan holding company from acquiring more than 5% of a company engaged in activities other than those authorized for savings and loan holding companies by federal law, or acquiring or retaining control of a depository institution that is not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. In evaluating applications by holding companies to acquire savings associations, the Federal Reserve Board must consider the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the company and institution involved, the effect of the acquisition on the risk to the insurance funds, the convenience and needs of the community and competitive factors. The Federal Reserve Board is prohibited from approving any acquisition that would result in a multiple savings and loan holding company controlling savings associations in more than one state, except: (1) the approval of interstate supervisory acquisitions by savings and loan holding companies, and (2) the acquisition of a savings association in another state if the laws of the state of the target savings institution specifically permit such acquisitions. The states vary in the extent to which they permit interstate savings and loan holding company acquisitions. 16 Table of Contents Stock Holding Company Subsidiary Regulation. The Federal Reserve Board has adopted regulations governing the two-tier mutual holding company form of organization and subsidiary stock holding companies that are controlled by mutual holding companies. Northeast Community Bancorp is the stock holding company subsidiary of Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC. Northeast Community Bancorp is permitted to engage in activities that are permitted for Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC subject to the same restrictions and conditions. Capital Requirements. Savings and loan holding companies are not currently subject to specific regulatory capital requirements. The Dodd-Frank Act, however, requires the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate consolidated capital requirements for depository institution holding companies that are no less stringent, both quantitatively and in terms of components of capital, than those applicable to institutions themselves. There is a five year transition period from the July 21, 2010 date of enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act before the capital requirements will apply to savings and loan holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate regulations implementing the “source of strength” policy that holding companies act as a source of strength to their subsidiary depository institutions by providing capital, liquidity and other support in times of financial stress. Source of Strength. The Dodd-Frank Act also extends the “source of strength” doctrine to savings and loan holding companies. The regulatory agencies must issue regulations implementing the “source of strength” policy that holding companies act as a source of strength to their subsidiary depository institutions by providing capital and other support to their subsidiary institutions in times of financial distress. Dividends and Stock Repurchases. The Federal Reserve Board has issued a policy statement regarding the payment of dividends and the repurchase of shares of common stock by bank holding companies that it has made applicable to savings and loan holding companies as well. In general, the policy provides that dividends should be paid only out of current earnings and only if the prospective rate of earnings retention by the holding company appears consistent with the organization’s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. Regulatory guidance provides for prior regulatory review of capital distributions in certain circumstances such as where the company’s net income for the past four quarters, net of dividends previously paid over that period, is insufficient to fully fund the dividend or the company’s overall rate of earnings retention is not consistent with the company’s capital needs and overall financial condition. The ability of a holding company to pay dividends may be restricted if a subsidiary bank becomes undercapitalized. Moreover, a company should inform the Federal Reserve Board reasonably in advance of declaring or paying a dividend that exceeds earnings for the period for which the dividend is being paid. The policy statement also provides for regulatory review prior to a holding company redeeming or repurchasing regulatory capital instruments when the holding company is experiencing financial weaknesses or redeeming or repurchasing common stock or perpetual preferred stock that would result in a net reduction as of the end of a quarter in the amount of such equity instruments outstanding compared with the beginning of the quarter in which the redemption or repurchase occurred. These regulatory policies could affect the ability of the Company to pay dividends, repurchase shares of common stock or otherwise engage in capital distributions. Waivers of Dividends by Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC. Office of Thrift Supervision regulations required Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC to notify the Office of Thrift Supervision if it proposed to waive receipt of dividends from Northeast Community Bancorp. The Office of Thrift Supervision reviewed dividend waiver notices on a case-by-case basis, and, in general, did not object to any such waiver if: (i) the waiver would not be detrimental to the safe and sound operation of the savings association; and (ii) the mutual holding company’s board of directors determines that such waiver is consistent with such directors’ fiduciary duties to the mutual holding company’s members. Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC has waived receipt of all dividends from Northeast Community Bancorp in prior years and in 2011. 17 Table of Contents The Federal Reserve Board, which took over the Office of Thrift Supervision’s supervisory duties for savings and loan holding companies, has adopted an interim final rule which requires the MHC to notify the Federal Reserve Board if it proposes to waive receipt of dividends from the Company. In addition, the interim final rule also requires that the MHC obtain the approval of a majority of the eligible votes of members of the MHC (generally Bank depositors) before it can waive dividends. For a grandfathered company such as the MHC that waived dividends prior to December 1, 2009, the Federal Reserve Board may not object to a dividend waiver request if the board of directors of the mutual holding company expressly determines that a waiver of the dividend is consistent with its fiduciary duties to members and the waiver would not be detrimental to the safe and sound operation of the savings association subsidiaries of the holding company. The Federal Reserve Board’s interim final rule regarding dividend waiver requests is subject to comment and there can be no assurances as to the timing of changes to the interim final rule, if any, the form of the final dividend waiver regulations or the effect of such regulations on the MHC’s ability to waive dividends. Conversion of Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC to Stock Form. Federal Reserve Board regulations permit Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC to convert from the mutual form of organization to the capital stock form of organization. There can be no assurance when, if ever, a conversion transaction will occur, and the board of directors has no current intention or plan to undertake a conversion transaction. In a conversion transaction, a new holding company would be formed as the successor to Northeast Community Bancorp, Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC’s corporate existence would end, and certain depositors of Northeast Community Bank would receive the right to subscribe for additional shares of the new holding company. In a conversion transaction, each share of common stock held by stockholders other than Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC would be automatically converted into a number of shares of common stock of the new holding company based on an exchange ratio designed to ensure that stockholders other than Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC own the same percentage of common stock in the new holding company as they owned in Northeast Community Bancorp immediately before conversion. The total number of shares held by stockholders other than Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC after a conversion transaction would be increased by any purchases by such stockholders in the stock offering conducted as part of the conversion transaction. Acquisition of Control. Under the federal Change in Bank Control Act, a notice must be submitted to the Federal Reserve Board if any person (including a company), or group acting in concert, seeks to acquire direct or indirect “control” of a savings and loan holding company or savings association. Under certain circumstances, a change of control may occur, and prior notice is required, upon the acquisition of 10% or more of the outstanding voting stock of the company or institution, unless the Federal Reserve Board has found that the acquisition will not result in a change of control. Under the Change in Bank Control Act, the Federal Reserve Board generally has 60 days from the filing of a complete notice to act, taking into consideration certain factors, including the financial and managerial resources of the acquirer and the anti-trust effects of the acquisition. Any company that so acquires control would then be subject to regulation as a savings and loan holding company. Future Legislation. Various legislation affecting financial institutions and the financial industry is from time to time introduced in Congress. Such legislation may change banking statutes and the operating environment of the Company and its subsidiaries in substantial and unpredictable ways, and could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand permissible activities or affect the competitive balance depending upon whether any of this potential legislation will be enacted, and if enacted, the effect that it or any implementing regulations, would have on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company or any of its subsidiaries. With the recent enactments of the Dodd-Frank Act, the nature and extent of future legislative and regulatory changes affecting financial institutions is very unpredictable at this time. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The Board of Directors annually elects the executive officers of Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC, Northeast Community Bancorp and Northeast Community Bank, who serve at the Board’s discretion. Our executive officers are: Name Position Kenneth A. Martinek President and Chief Executive Officer of the MHC, the Company and the Bank Salvatore Randazzo Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer of the MHC, the Company and the Bank 18 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Changes in interest rates may have a negative impact on earnings and asset values. Our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans and investment less the interest we pay on our deposits and borrowings. Our net interest margin is the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding. Changes in interest rates—up or down—could adversely affect our net interest margin and, as a result, our net interest income. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. Our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. As a result, when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract until the yield catches up. Changes in the slope of the “yield curve”—or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates—could also reduce our net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. Because our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, we could experience pressure on our net interest margin as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Risk Management—Interest Rate Risk Management.” Our emphasis on multi-family residential, mixed-use and non-residential real estate lending and our recent expansion into commercial and industrial lending and participation in construction loans could expose us to increased lending risks. Our primary business strategy centers on continuing our emphasis on multi-family and mixed-use real estate loans. At December 31, 2011, $324.1 million, or 90.6%, of our loan portfolio consisted of multi-family residential, mixed-use and non-residential real estate loans. As a result, our credit risk profile is generally higher than traditional thrift institutions that have higher concentrations of one- to four-family residential loans. Loans secured by multi-family, mixed-use and non-residential real estate generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the underlying property. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Accordingly, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one-to-four family residential mortgage loan. We seek to minimize these risks through our underwriting policies, which require such loans to be qualified on the basis of the property’s net income and debt service ratio; however, there is no assurance that our underwriting policies will protect us from credit-related losses. As with loans secured by multi-family, mixed-use and non-residential real estate, commercial and industrial loans tend to be of higher risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. We seek to minimize the risks involved in commercial and industrial lending by underwriting such loans on the basis of the cash flows produced by the business; by requiring that such loans be collateralized by various business assets, including inventory, equipment, and accounts receivable, among others; and by requiring personal guarantees, whenever possible. However, the capacity of a borrower to repay a commercial and industrial loan is substantially dependent on the degree to which his or her business is successful. In addition, the collateral underlying such loans may depreciate over time, may not be conducive to appraisal, or may fluctuate in value, based upon the business’ results. At December 31, 2011, $23.7 million, or 6.6%, of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial and industrial loans. Our participation interests in construction loans present a greater level of risk than loans secured by improved, occupied real estate due to: (1) the increased difficulty at the time the loan is made of estimating the building costs and the selling price of the property to be built; (2) the increased difficulty and costs of monitoring the loan; (3) the higher degree of sensitivity to increases in market rates of interest; and (4) the increased difficulty of working out loan problems. We have sought to minimize this risk by limiting the amount of construction loan participation interests outstanding at any time and spreading the participations between multi-family, mixed-use and non-residential projects. At December 31, 2011, the outstanding balance of our construction loan participation interests totaled $9.1 million, or 2.5% of our total loan portfolio. We currently do not participate in construction loans. 19 Table of Contents A return of recessionary conditions could result in increases in our level of non-performing loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Following a national home price peak in mid-2006, falling home prices and sharply reduced sales volumes, along with the collapse of the United States’ subprime mortgage industry in early 2007, significantly contributed to a recession that officially lasted until June 2009, although the effects continued thereafter. Dramatic declines in real estate values and high levels of foreclosures resulted in significant asset write-downs by financial banks, which have caused many financial banks to seek additional capital, to merge with other banks and, in some cases, to fail. Concerns over the United States’ credit rating (which was recently downgraded by Standard & Poor’s), the European sovereign debt crisis, and continued high unemployment in the United States, among other economic indicators, have contributed to increased volatility in the capital markets and diminished expectations for the economy. A return of recessionary conditions and/or continued negative developments in the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Further declines in real estate values and sales volumes and continued high unemployment levels may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies and a decline in demand for our products and services. These negative events may cause us to incur losses and may adversely affect our capital, liquidity, and financial condition. Our non-performing assets could expose us to increased risk of loss, which may negatively affect our earnings. Our non-performing assets have increased in the past few years as a result of the economic recession. At December 31, 2011, we had total non-performing assets of $21.1 million, or 4.3% of total assets, a $1.7 million decrease from December 31, 2010 and a $272,000 increase from December 31, 2009. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans or investments or on real estate owned. We must reserve for probable losses, which are established through a current period charge to income in the provision for loan losses, and from time to time, write down the value of properties in our other real estate owned portfolio to reflect changing market values. Additionally, there are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets as well as carrying costs such as taxes, insurance and maintenance related to our other real estate owned. Further, the resolution of non-performing assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract us from the overall supervision of operations and other income-producing activities of Northeast Community Bank. Finally, if our estimate of the allowance for loan losses is inadequate, we will have to increase the allowance accordingly. At December 31, 2011, our allowance for loan losses amounted to 2.1% of total loans outstanding and 36.2% of nonperforming loans. Our allowance for loan losses may be inadequate, which could hurt our earnings. When borrowers default and do not repay the loans that we make to them, we may lose money. The allowance for loan losses is the amount estimated by management as necessary to cover probable losses in the loan portfolio at the statement of financial condition date. The allowance is established through the provision for loan losses, which is charged to income. Determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses necessarily involves a high degree of judgment. Among the material estimates required to establish the allowance are: loss exposure at default; the amount and timing of future cash flows on impacted loans; value of collateral; and determination of loss factors to be applied to the various elements of the portfolio. If our estimates and judgments regarding such matters prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses might not be sufficient, and additional loan loss provisions might need to be made. Depending on the amount of such loan loss provisions, the adverse impact on our earnings could be material. Our allowance for loan losses amounted to 2.1% of total loans outstanding and 36.2% of nonperforming loans at December 31, 2011. Our allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2011 may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses. A large loss or series of losses could deplete the allowance and require increased provisions to replenish the allowance, which would negatively affect earnings. 20 Table of Contents In addition, bank regulators may require us to make a provision for loan losses or otherwise recognize further loan charge-offs following their periodic review of our loan portfolio, our underwriting procedures, and our loan loss allowance. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by such regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Please see “Allowance for Loan Losses” under “Critical Accounting Policies” in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” for a discussion of the procedures we follow in establishing our loan loss allowance. Income from mortgage brokering operations is volatile, and reduced demand for residential mortgage loans may negatively impact our net income. We act as a residential mortgage loan broker for nationally recognized third-party mortgage originators, earning noninterest income in the form of other loan fees and service charges. When interest rates rise, the demand for mortgage loans tends to fall and may reduce the number of loans that are originated through our mortgage brokering operations. In addition to interest rate levels, weak or deteriorating economic conditions also tend to reduce loan demand. Reduced demand for residential mortgage loans will negatively impact our mortgage brokering operations and the noninterest income that we generate from such operations. Strong competition within our primary market area and our lending territory could hurt our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans in our lending territory and attracting deposits in our primary market area. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and at times has forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to grow loans and deposits. As of June 30, 2011, the most recent date for which information is available from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, we held approximately 0.02% of the deposits in New York County, New York, approximately 0.60% and 0.06% of the deposits in Bronx and Westchester Counties, New York, respectively, and 0.23% and 0.96% of the deposits in Essex and Plymouth Counties, Massachusetts, respectively. Competition also makes it more difficult to hire and retain experienced employees. Some of the banks with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our primary market area and our lending territory. The market price of our common stock may be materially adversely affected by market volatility. Many publicly traded financial services companies have recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance or prospects of such companies. We may experience market fluctuations that are not directly related to our operating performance but are influenced by the market’s perception of the state of the financial services industry in general and, in particular, the market’s assessment of general credit quality conditions, including default and foreclosure rates in the industry. Increased and/or special FDIC assessments will hurt our earnings. The recent economic recession has caused a high level of bank failures, which has dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the balance of the Deposit Insurance Fund. As a result, the FDIC has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. Increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted our earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions. Our special assessment, which was reflected in earnings for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, was $205,000. In lieu of imposing an additional special assessment, the FDIC required all institutions to prepay their assessments for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012, which for us totaled $1.5 million. Additional increases in the base assessment rate or additional special assessments would negatively impact our earnings. 21 Table of Contents We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, our primary federal regulator, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of our deposits. Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC and Northeast Community Bancorp are subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board. Northeast Community Bank is subject to regulation and supervision by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of Northeast Community Bank rather than for holders of Northeast Community Bancorp common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. Recently enacted financial regulatory reform may have a material impact on our operations. On July 21, 2010, the President signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act restructures the regulation of depository institutions. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Office of Thrift Supervision, which formerly regulated the Bank, was merged into the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. Savings and loan holding companies, including Northeast Community Bancorp and Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC, will be regulated by the Federal Reserve Board. Also included is the creation of a new federal agency to administer consumer protection and fair lending laws, a function that was formerly performed by the depository institution regulators. The federal preemption of state laws that was formerly accorded federally chartered depository institutions has been reduced as well and State Attorneys General now have greater authority to bring a suit against a federally chartered institution, such as Northeast Community Bank, for violations of certain state and federal consumer protection laws. The Dodd-Frank Act also imposes consolidated capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies effective in five years, which will limit our ability to borrow at the holding company and invest the proceeds from such borrowings as capital in Northeast Community Bank that could be leveraged to support additional growth. The Dodd-Frank Act contains various other provisions designed to enhance the regulation of depository institutions and prevent the recurrence of a financial crisis such as occurred in 2008-2009. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business and operations will not be known for years until regulations implementing the statute are written and adopted. The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on our operations, particularly through increased regulatory burden and compliance costs. In addition to the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, the federal regulatory agencies recently have begun to take stronger supervisory actions against financial institutions that have experienced increased loan losses and other weaknesses as a result of the current economic crisis. The actions include the entering into of written agreements and cease and desist orders that place certain limitations on their operations. Federal bank regulators recently have also been using with more frequency their ability to impose individual minimal capital requirements on banks, which requirements may be higher than those imposed under the Dodd-Frank Act or which would otherwise qualify the bank as being “well capitalized” under the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency’s prompt corrective action regulations. If we were to become subject to a supervisory agreement or higher individual capital requirements, such action may have a negative impact on our ability to execute our business plans, as well as our ability to grow, pay dividends or engage in mergers and acquisitions and may result in restrictions in our operations. See “Regulation and Supervision – Federal Banking Regulation – Capital Requirements” for a discussion of regulatory capital requirements. 22 Table of Contents Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC’s majority control of our common stock will enable it to exercise voting control over most matters put to a vote of stockholders and will prevent stockholders from forcing a sale or a second-step conversion transaction you may like. The MHC owns a majority of Northeast Community Bancorp’s common stock and, through its board of directors, will be able to exercise voting control over most matters put to a vote of stockholders. The same directors and officers who manage Northeast Community Bancorp and Northeast Community Bank also manage the MHC. As a federally chartered mutual holding company, the board of directors of the MHC must ensure that the interests of depositors of Northeast Community Bank are represented and considered in matters put to a vote of stockholders of Northeast Community Bancorp. Therefore, the votes cast by the MHC may not be in your personal best interests as a stockholder. For example, the MHC may exercise its voting control to defeat a stockholder nominee for election to the board of directors of Northeast Community Bancorp. In addition, stockholders will not be able to force a merger or second-step conversion transaction without the consent of the MHC. Some stockholders may desire a sale or merger transaction, since stockholders typically receive a premium for their shares, or a second-step conversion transaction, since fully converted institutions tend to trade at higher multiples than mutual holding companies. The amount of dividends we pay on our common stock, if any, may be limited by the ability of NorthEast Community Bancorp, MHC to waive receipt of dividends. The MHC owns a majority of the Company’s outstanding stock. As a result, when and if the Company pays dividends to its shareholders, it also is required to pay dividends to the MHC unless the MHC is permitted by its federal regulator to waive the receipt of dividends. Historically, the MHC’s federal regulator has permitted the MHC to waive its right to dividends declared by the Company on the shares that it owns. The MHC has received the approval of the Federal Reserve Board to waive dividends paid by the Company for the quarters ended September 30, 2011, December 31, 2011 and March 31, 2012. It is expected that the MHC will continue to waive future dividends, except to the extent dividends are needed to fund the MHC’s continuing operations, and subject to the ability of the MHC to obtain regulatory approval in the future of its requests to waive dividends. The Federal Reserve Board, as successor regulatory agency to the Office of Thrift Supervision for the MHC, has adopted an interim final rule which requires the MHC to notify the Federal Reserve Board if it proposes to waive receipt of dividends from the Company. In addition, the interim final rule also requires that the MHC obtain the approval of a majority of the eligible votes of members of the MHC (generally Bank depositors) before it can waive dividends. For a grandfathered company such as the MHC that waived dividends prior to December 1, 2009, the Federal Reserve Board may not object to a dividend waiver request if the board of directors of the mutual holding company expressly determines that a waiver of the dividend is consistent with its fiduciary duties to members and the waiver would not be detrimental to the safe and sound operation of the savings association subsidiaries of the holding company. The Federal Reserve Board’s interim final rule regarding dividend waiver requests is subject to comment and there can be no assurances as to the timing of changes to the interim final rule, if any, the form of the final dividend waiver regulations or the effect of such regulations on the MHC’s ability to waive dividends. While the MHC is grandfathered for purposes of the Federal Reserve Board dividend waiver regulations, we cannot assure that the Federal Reserve Board will grant dividend waiver requests in the future and, if granted, there can be no assurance as to the conditions, if any, the Federal Reserve Board will place on future dividend waiver requests. The denial of a dividend waiver request or the imposition of burdensome conditions on an approval of a waiver request may significantly limit the amount of dividends the Company pays in the future, if any. The Federal Reserve Board policy on remutualization transactions could prohibit acquisition of Northeast Community Bancorp, which may adversely affect our stock price. Current Federal Reserve Board regulations permit a mutual holding company to be acquired by a mutual institution in a remutualization transaction. However, Northeast Community Bancorp’s former regulator, the Office of Thrift Supervision, had adopted a policy statement indicating that it viewed remutualization transactions as raising significant issues concerning disparate treatment of minority stockholders and mutual members of the target entity and raising issues concerning the effect on the mutual members of the acquiring entity. The Federal Reserve Board has not adopted a similar policy statement or issued on the matter and future Federal Reserve Board regulation may negatively affect Northeast Community Bancorp. Under certain circumstances, the Federal Reserve Board may give these issues special scrutiny and reject applications providing for the remutualization of a mutual holding company unless the applicant can clearly demonstrate that the Federal Reserve Board’s concerns are not warranted in the particular case. Should the Federal Reserve Board prohibit or otherwise restrict these transactions in the future, our per share stock price may be adversely affected. 23 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 