Item 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to regional and national economic conditions. The unprecedented decline in the economy in Florida and throughout the United States could continue to negatively affect demand for our products which has had, and which could continue to have, an adverse impact on our sales and results of operations. A continuation of the downturn in our markets could adversely impact our credit agreement. As of January 2, 2010, we had $68.3 million of outstanding indebtedness. As noted elsewhere in this report, we have experienced a significant deterioration in the various markets in which we compete. A sustained and continued significant deterioration in these markets may adversely impact our ability to meet certain covenants under our credit agreement. Management continues to evaluate what, if any, action or actions may be available or necessary to maintain compliance with these various covenants, including cost saving actions and the prepayment of debt. The new home construction and repair and remodeling markets have declined. Beginning in the second half of 2006, we saw a significant slowdown in the Florida housing market. This slowdown continued during 2007, 2008, and 2009, and we expect this trend to continue through 2010 and possibly further. Like many building material suppliers in the industry, we have been and will continue to be faced with a challenging operating environment due to this decline in the housing market. Specifically, new single family housing permits in Florida decreased by 49% in 2007, 47% in 2008, and 30% in 2009, each as compared to the prior year. Beginning in the third quarter of 2008, we began to see a decrease in consumer spending for repair and remodeling projects as credit tightened and many homeowners lost substantial equity in their homes. The resulting decline in new home and repair and remodeling construction levels by our customers has decreased demand for our products which has had, and which could continue to have, an adverse impact on our sales and results of operations. Current economic and credit market conditions have increased the risk that we may not collect a greater percentage of our receivables. Economic and credit conditions have negatively impacted our bad debt expense which has adversely impacted our results of operations. If these conditions persist, our results of operations may continue to be adversely impacted by bad debts. We monitor our customers’ credit profiles carefully and make changes in our terms when necessary in response to this heightened risk. We are subject to fluctuations in the prices of our raw materials. We experience significant fluctuations in the cost of our raw materials, including aluminum extrusion, polyvinyl butyral and glass. A variety of factors over which we have no control, including global demand for aluminum, fluctuations in oil prices, speculation in commodities futures and the creation of new laminates or other products based on new technologies impact the cost of raw materials we purchase for the manufacture of our products. While we attempt to minimize our risk from severe price fluctuations by entering into aluminum forward contracts to hedge these fluctuations in the purchase price of aluminum extrusion we use in production, substantial, prolonged upward trends in aluminum prices could significantly increase the cost of the unhedged portions of our aluminum needs and have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We anticipate that these fluctuations will continue in the future. While we have entered into a three-year supply agreement through early 2012 with a major producer of ionoplast inner layer that we believe provides us with a reliable, single source for ionoplast with stable pricing on favorable terms, if one or both parties to the agreement do not satisfy the terms of the agreement it may be terminated which could result in our inability to obtain ionoplast on commercially reasonable terms having an adverse impact on our results of operations. Additionally, ionoplast accounted for approximately 22% of our inner layer purchases in 2009, and we are currently negotiating for the purchase of polyvinyl butyral (which accounted for approximately 78% of our inner layer purchases in 2009). If we are unable to negotiate a long-term agreement for the supply of polyvinyl butyral on commercially reasonable terms, it may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. While historically we have to some extent been able to pass on significant cost increases to our customers, our results between periods may be negatively impacted by a delay between the cost increases and price increases in our products. We depend on third-party suppliers for our raw materials. Our ability to offer a wide variety of products to our customers depends on receipt of adequate material supplies from manufacturers and other suppliers. Generally, our raw materials and supplies are obtainable from various sources and in sufficient quantities. However, it is possible that our competitors or other suppliers may create laminates or products based on new technologies that are not available to us or are more effective than our products at surviving hurricane-force winds and wind-borne debris or that they may have access to products of a similar quality at lower prices. Although in many instances we have agreements with our suppliers, these agreements are generally terminable by either party on limited notice. Moreover, other than with our suppliers of polyvinyl butyral and aluminum, we do not have long-term contracts with the suppliers of our raw materials. - 6 - - Table of Contents Transportation costs represent a significant part of our cost structure. Although prices decreased significantly in the fourth quarter of 2008 and stabilized somewhat in 2009, the increase in fuel prices earlier in 2008 had a negative effect on our distribution costs. Another rapid and prolonged increase in fuel prices may significantly increase our costs and have an adverse impact on our results of operations. The home building industry and the home repair and remodeling sector are regulated. The homebuilding industry and the home repair and remodeling sector are subject to various local, state, and federal statutes, ordinances, rules, and regulations concerning zoning, building design and safety, construction, and similar matters, including regulations that impose restrictive zoning and density requirements in order to limit the number of homes that can be built within the boundaries of a particular area. Increased regulatory restrictions could limit demand for new homes and home repair and remodeling products and could negatively affect our sales and results of operations. Our operating results are substantially dependent on sales of our WinGuard branded line of products. A majority of our net sales are, and are expected to continue to be, derived from the sales of our WinGuard branded line of products. Accordingly, our future operating results will depend on the demand for WinGuard products by current and future customers, including additions to this product line that are subsequently introduced. If our competitors release new products that are superior to WinGuard products in performance or price, or if we fail to update WinGuard products with any technological advances that are developed by us or our competitors or introduce new products in a timely manner, demand for our products may decline. A decline in demand for WinGuard products as a result of competition, technological change or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate sales, which would negatively affect our sales and results of operations. Changes in building codes could lower the demand for our impact-resistant windows and doors. The market for our impact-resistant windows and doors depends in large part on our ability to satisfy state and local building codes that require protection from wind-borne debris. If the standards in such building codes are raised, we may not be able to meet their requirements, and demand for our products could decline. Conversely, if the standards in such building codes are lowered or are not enforced in certain areas, demand for our impact-resistant products may decrease. Further, if states and regions that are affected by hurricanes but do not currently have such building codes fail to adopt and enforce hurricane protection building codes, our ability to expand our business in such markets may be limited. Our industry is competitive, and competition may increase as our markets grow or as more states adopt or enforce building codes that require impact-resistant products. The window and door industry is highly competitive. We face significant competition from numerous small, regional producers, as well as a small number of national producers. Some of these competitors make products from alternative materials, including wood. Any of these competitors may (i) foresee the course of market development more accurately than do we, (ii) develop products that are superior to our products, (iii) have the ability to produce similar products at a lower cost, (iv) develop stronger relationships with window distributors, building supply distributors, and window replacement dealers, or (v) adapt more quickly to new technologies or evolving customer requirements than do we. As a result, we may not be able to compete successfully with them. In addition, while we are skilled at creating finished impact-resistant and other window and door products, the materials we use can be purchased by any existing or potential competitor. New competitors can enter our industry, and existing competitors may increase their efforts in the impact-resistant market. Furthermore, if the market for impact-resistant windows and doors continues to expand, larger competitors could enter, or expand their presence in the market and may be able to compete more effectively. Finally, we may not be able to maintain our costs at a level sufficiently low for us to compete effectively. If we are unable to compete effectively, demand for our products and our profitability may decline. Our business is currently concentrated in one state. Our business is concentrated geographically in Florida. In fiscal year 2009, approximately 81% of our sales were generated in Florida, and new single family housing permits in Florida decreased by 30% in 2009 compared to the prior year. A further or prolonged decline in the economy of the state of Florida or of the coastal regions of Florida, a change in state and local building code requirements for hurricane protection, or any other adverse condition in the state could cause a decline in the demand for our products in Florida, which could have an adverse impact on our sales and results of operations. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our debt instruments. As of January 2, 2010, our indebtedness under our first lien term loan was $68.0 million. All of our debt was at a variable interest rate. In the event that interest rates rise, our interest expense would increase. A 1.0% increase in interest rates would result in approximately $0.7 million of additional interest expense annually. - 7 - - Table of Contents The level of our debt could have certain consequences, including: · increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; · requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures, and future business opportunities; · exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our credit facilities, will be at variable rates of interest; · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes; and · limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt. We may incur additional indebtedness. We may incur additional indebtedness under our credit facilities, which provide for up to $25 million of revolving credit borrowings, under the current Third Amendment which became effective on March 17, 2010. In addition, we and our subsidiary may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, including secured debt, subject to the restrictions contained in the agreements governing our credit facilities. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. Our debt instruments contain various covenants that limit our ability to operate our business. Our credit facility contains various provisions that limit our ability to, among other things, transfer or sell assets, including the equity interests of our subsidiary, or use asset sale proceeds; pay dividends or distributions on our capital stock or repurchase our capital stock; make certain restricted payments or investments; create liens to secure debt; enter into transactions with affiliates; merge or consolidate with another company; and engage in unrelated business activities. In addition, our credit facilities require us to meet specified financial ratios. These covenants may restrict our ability to expand or fully pursue our business strategies. Our ability to comply with these and other provisions of our credit facilities may be affected by changes in our operating and financial performance, changes in general business and economic conditions, adverse regulatory developments, or other events beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants, including those contained in our credit facilities, could result in a default under our indebtedness, which could cause those and other obligations to become due and payable. If any of our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay it. We may be adversely affected by any disruption in our information technology systems. Our operations are dependent upon our information technology systems, which encompass all of our major business functions. A disruption in our information technology systems for any prolonged period could result in delays in receiving inventory and supplies or filling customer orders and adversely affect our customer service and relationships. We may be adversely affected by any disruptions to our manufacturing facilities or disruptions to our customer, supplier, or employee base. Any disruption to our facilities resulting from hurricanes and other weather-related events, fire, an act of terrorism, or any other cause could damage a significant portion of our inventory, affect our distribution of products, and materially impair our ability to distribute our products to customers. We could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our customers during the time that it takes for us to reopen or replace a damaged facility. In addition, if there are disruptions to our customer and supplier base or to our employees caused by hurricanes, our business could be temporarily adversely affected by higher costs for materials, increased shipping and storage costs, increased labor costs, increased absentee rates, and scheduling issues. Furthermore, some of our direct and indirect suppliers have unionized work forces, and strikes, work stoppages, or slowdowns experienced by these suppliers could result in slowdowns or closures of their facilities. Any interruption in the production or delivery of our supplies could reduce sales of our products and increase our costs. - 8 - - Table of Contents The nature of our business exposes us to product liability and warranty claims. We are involved in product liability and product warranty claims relating to the products we manufacture and distribute that, if adversely determined, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. In addition, we may be exposed to potential claims arising from the conduct of homebuilders and home remodelers and their sub-contractors. Although we currently maintain what we believe to be suitable and adequate insurance in excess of our self-insured amounts, we may not be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or such insurance may not provide adequate protection against potential liabilities. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods, regardless of the ultimate outcome. Claims of this nature could also have a negative impact on customer confidence in our products and our company. We are subject to potential exposure to environmental liabilities and are subject to environmental regulation. We are subject to various federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances, and regulations. Although we believe that our facilities are in material compliance with such laws, ordinances, and regulations, as owners and lessees of real property, we can be held liable for the investigation or remediation of contamination on such properties, in some circumstances, without regard to whether we knew of or were responsible for such contamination. Remediation may be required in the future as a result of spills or releases of petroleum products or hazardous substances, the discovery of unknown environmental conditions, or more stringent standards regarding existing residual contamination. More burdensome environmental regulatory requirements may increase our general and administrative costs and may increase the risk that we may incur fines or penalties or be held liable for violations of such regulatory requirements. We conduct all of our operations through our subsidiary, and rely on payments from our subsidiary to meet all of our obligations. We are a holding company and derive all of our operating income from our subsidiary, PGT Industries, Inc. All of our assets are held by our subsidiary, and we rely on the earnings and cash flows of our subsidiary to meet our debt service obligations. The ability of our subsidiary to make payments to us will depend on its respective operating results and may be restricted by, among other things, the laws of its jurisdiction of organization (which may limit the amount of funds available for distributions to us), the terms of existing and future indebtedness and other agreements of our subsidiary, including our credit facilities, and the covenants of any future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiary incur. We are exposed to risks relating to evaluations of controls required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While we have concluded that at January 2, 2010, we have no material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, we cannot assure you that we will not have a material weakness in the future. A “material weakness” is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the Company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. If we fail to maintain a system of internal controls over financial reporting that meets the requirements of Section 404, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities such as the SEC or by the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC. Additionally, failure to comply with Section 404 or the report by us of a material weakness may cause investors to lose confidence in our financial statements and our stock price may be adversely affected. If we fail to remedy any material weakness, our financial statements may be inaccurate, we may not have access to the capital markets, and our stock price may be adversely affected. The controlling position of an affiliate of JLL Partners limits the ability of our minority stockholders to influence corporate matters. An affiliate of JLL Partners owned 52.6% of our outstanding common stock as of January 2, 2010. Accordingly, such affiliate of JLL Partners has significant influence over our management and affairs and over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a transaction such as a merger, consolidation, or other business combination involving us, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control, even if such a transaction or change of control would benefit minority stockholders. In addition, this concentrated control limits the ability of our minority stockholders to influence corporate matters, and such affiliate of JLL Partners, as a controlling stockholder, could approve certain actions, including a going-private transaction, without approval of minority stockholders, subject to obtaining any required approval of our board of directors for such transaction. As a result, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. - 9 - - Table of Contents The controlling position of an affiliate of JLL Partners exempts us from certain Nasdaq corporate governance requirements. Although we have satisfied all applicable Nasdaq corporate governance rules, for so long as an affiliate of JLL Partners continues to own more than 50% of our outstanding shares, we will continue to avail ourselves of the Nasdaq Rule 4350(c) “controlled company” exemption that applies to companies in which more than 50% of the stockholder voting power is held by an individual, a group, or another company. This rule grants us an exemption from the requirements that we have a majority of independent directors on our board of directors and that we have independent directors determine the compensation of executive officers and the selection of nominees to the board of directors. However, we intend to comply with such requirements in the event that such affiliate of JLL Partners’ ownership falls to or below 50%. Our directors and officers who are affiliated with JLL Partners do not have any obligation to report corporate opportunities to us. Because some individuals may serve as our directors or officers and as directors, officers, partners, members, managers, or employees of JLL Partners or its affiliates or investment funds and because such affiliates or investment funds may engage in similar lines of business to those in which we engage, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation allocates corporate opportunities between us and JLL Partners and its affiliates and investment funds. Specifically, for so long as JLL Partners and its affiliates and investment funds own at least 15% of our shares of common stock, none of JLL Partners, nor any of its affiliates or investment funds, or their respective directors, officers, partners, members, managers, or employees has any duty to refrain from engaging directly or indirectly in the same or similar business activities or lines of business as do we. In addition, if any of them acquires knowledge of a potential transaction that may be a corporate opportunity for us and for JLL Partners or its affiliates or investment funds, subject to certain exceptions, we will not have any expectancy in such corporate opportunity, and they will not have any obligation to communicate such opportunity to us. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 