Risk Factors. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before purchasing our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are unaware, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also become important factors that affect us. Any of the following risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose some or all of your investment. Risks relating to our business and industry Effective from 2008, Russian law will further limit the amount of advertising time permitted on television, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. In early 2006, a new Russian law was introduced to limit the amount of time that a broadcaster could devote to advertising. The new law took effect on July 1, 2006 and, as a result, advertising was limited to 15% of daily broadcasting time, and no more than 20% in any hour, compared to 20% of total broadcasting time per day prior to July 1. From January 1, 2008, the new law will further limit advertising such that no more than 15% of broadcasting time per hour can be devoted to advertising. In addition, Russia has signed an international convention that, if ratified by the Russian parliament, would further limit the amount of advertising that could be broadcast during feature films. Alexander Rodnyansky, our chief executive officer, has stated in interviews that this convention, if ratified, could significantly reduce the revenues that we are able to generate from the broadcast of feature films. Video International renegotiated advertising rates with advertisers to reflect the impact of the reduction in available advertising time in 2006. We also increased the share of our total daily advertising time allocated to the CTC Network from 70% to 75% (excluding local programming windows), decreasing the amount allocated to our CTC affiliates. As a result, we believe that the reduced amount of available advertising time did not negatively affect our results of operations in 2006. However, we can provide no assurance that it would be possible for Video International to renegotiate pricing to compensate for reductions set to take effect in 2008 or pursuant to the international convention, if ratified. We also provide no assurance that we would be able to take measures similar to those taken in 2006 to reallocate advertising time to the CTC Network. We expect that the effectiveness of the further reduction in permitted advertising time, and the international convention, if ratified, could materially adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We derive almost all of our revenues from the sale of advertising, which is sensitive to broader economic conditions, and our revenues may therefore substantially decrease if general economic conditions in Russia were to deteriorate. Since the introduction of television advertising in Russia following the fall of the Soviet Union, advertising spending has fluctuated substantially, generally increasing during periods of economic growth and decreasing during downturns. For example, in August 1998 the Russian government defaulted on certain of its outstanding financial obligations and the Central Bank of Russia stopped its support of the ruble, leading to a steep devaluation. During the ensuing economic crisis, total spending on television advertising in Russia declined significantly, falling from a pre-crisis high of $550 million in 1997 to a low of $190 million in 1999. Economic recovery following the crisis was slow, and spending on Russian television advertising did not exceed the 1997 figure in US dollar terms until 2002. As a result, our revenues declined significantly after the 1998 economic crisis. By significantly reducing the salaries of our employees, reducing corporate overhead, limiting purchases of new programming, renegotiating the terms of existing programming agreements and obtaining third-party financing, we were able to continue to operate until the advertising market recovered. Although the Russian economy has improved substantially since the 1998 crisis, many analysts have expressed concerns that it is overly dependent upon commodities, particularly the natural gas and oil sectors, and therefore substantially dependent upon international supply, demand and pricing conditions 14 in those fields. A sudden or prolonged downturn in the Russian economy could substantially reduce Russian television advertising expenditures. Any decrease in the size of the Russian television advertising market will likely result in a decrease in our advertising revenues, which would adversely affect our results of operations. If free-to-air television does not continue to constitute a significant advertising forum in Russia, our revenues could be materially reduced. We generate substantially all our revenues from the sale of free-to-air television advertising in Russia, which constituted approximately 47% of all advertising expenditures in Russia in 2005 and 49% in 2006, having increased from 25% in 1999. In the broader advertising market, television competes with various other advertising media, such as print, radio, the internet and outdoor advertising. While television currently constitutes the single largest component of all advertising spending in Russia there can be no assurance that television will maintain its current position among advertising media or that changes in the regulatory environment will not favor other advertising media or other television broadcasters. Increases in competition arising from the development of new forms of advertising media could have an adverse effect on our ability to maintain and develop our advertising revenues and, as a result, on our results of operations. Any decline in the appeal of television generally or of our networks specifically, whether as a result of the growth in popularity of other forms of media, a decline in the attractiveness of television as an advertising medium or any other factor, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition to competing with other free-to-air broadcasters, we compete with pay television services that offer multiple channels to subscribers for a regular subscription fee, and that typically do not generate a significant portion of their revenues from advertising. Compared with pay television in the United States and European countries, Russian pay television has yet to attract a significant customer base, although the recent introduction of such services in several major cities suggests the potential for growth. In other countries, such as the United States, growth in pay television services has often resulted in a fragmentation of the market and a corresponding decrease in the audience share of large national networks and channels. If pay television services attract a significant customer base in Russia, our audience shares and ratings could be negatively affected, which would adversely affect our advertising revenues. We rely on a single television advertising sales house for substantially all of our revenues, and therefore our operating results could be materially adversely affected if our relationship with this sales house were to deteriorate or if it were to fail to sell advertising on our behalf effectively. National television advertising in Russia is generally not placed directly with broadcasters. Instead, two ‘‘sales houses,’’ Video International and NTV Media, a sales house affiliated with the television channel NTV (one of our principal competitors), control the placement of most national television advertising in Russia, with a third sales house placing advertising for several smaller channels. Video International currently also places local advertising for local television stations. Video International has served as our exclusive sales house for the placement of national advertising on the CTC Network since 1999 and on the Domashny Network since its launch in March 2005. In January 2006, Video International began acting as the exclusive sales house for the placement of local television advertising for substantially all of the stations in our Television Station Groups. Payments from Video International accounted for approximately 71% of our total operating revenues in 2005 and 95% in 2006. We expect revenues from Video International to account for substantially all of our consolidated revenues in 2007. We have separate agreements with Video International that run through December 2007 and 2009 for CTC and Domashny, respectively, and 2010 for our Television Station Groups. These agreements are generally terminable upon 180 days’ notice by either party. We cannot guarantee that the Video International agreements will not be terminated prior to their scheduled expiration, or that if they are terminated we will be able to conclude replacement agreements that provide us with the same level of advertising revenues or other benefits as the current agreements. Video International, typically in consultation with us, determines advertising prices, agrees the terms of sales contracts between it and advertisers and oversees the collection of advertising sales revenue. 15 Video International typically consults with us on general budgeting matters, including average selling prices, the total number of GRPs expected over the year, the allocation of GRPs across the year and similar matters. Our agreements with Video International require it to forward payment to us within three business days of its receipt of funds from advertisers. However, we do not have any direct input into the evaluation of the creditworthiness of potential new advertisers or direct control over collection of advertising sales revenues, and Video International could act unilaterally should it choose to do so when setting advertising prices and allocating GRPs. For example, in January 2007 Video International sent a letter to certain advertisers on the CTC Network indicating that it intended to reallocate some placements to other channels as well as our regional stations due to lower than forecasted ratings on the CTC Network in 2007. We also bear the credit risk associated with any failure by an advertiser to make payment when due. If Video International were to sell to non-creditworthy customers, fail to successfully collect advertising sales revenues or act unilaterally when setting advertising prices or allocating GRPs, our inability to directly control the process and limited provisions for recourse could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Russian Federal Anti-monopoly Service has publicly indicated on several occasions in the past, including in 2006, that it intends to regulate Video International as a monopoly with a dominant market position or to require the establishment of a public exchange for the sale of advertising; we are not aware of any specific plans to initiate any such efforts at any particular time. If the Federal Anti-monopoly Service were to do so, under applicable anti-monopoly legislation it could impose various restrictions on Video International and its activities, including forced divestitures of companies within the group. Such actions by the Federal Anti-monopoly Service, if implemented, could disrupt Video International’s ability to effectively place our advertising, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The only other major television advertising sales house in Russia is controlled by one of our principal competitors, NTV. We understand that this sales house coordinates with Video International in the placement of local advertising. Consequently, we do not know whether they would agree to act as our sales house or, if they did, whether they would be as effective as Video International at placing our television advertising. A disruption in our relationship with Video International or early termination of our agreements or any adverse event with respect to Video International’s ability to pay would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Restrictions on foreign involvement in the television business in Russia could potentially be amended or interpreted in such a way as to result in our loss of necessary licenses or to require us to divest majority control of our Russian operating subsidiaries. Amendments to the law of the Russian Federation ‘‘On Mass Media’’ (the ‘‘Mass Media Law’’), which went into effect in August 2001, restrict foreign involvement in Russian television businesses in a number of ways. As a result of these amendments, all Russian television companies with existing foreign ownership had to restructure their operations prior to August 6, 2002, to avoid violating the amended Mass Media Law. Unlike other Russian legislation regarding foreign control in certain industries, however, the amendments to the Mass Media Law do not contain ‘‘look-through’’ provisions with respect to the ultimate beneficial ownership of Russian companies engaged in television operations in Russia. Because CTC Media does not broadcast or distribute television programming in the Russian Federation, we believe that CTC Media itself does not fall under the definition of a ‘‘founder of a television or video program,’’ and that CTC Media itself does not violate the foreign involvement restrictions of the Mass Media Law. In response to the adoption of these amendments to the Mass Media Law, we implemented a restructuring plan pursuant to which we created a holding company structure and reduced CTC Media’s direct ownership in CTC and each of our owned-and-operated stations below 50%. CTC Media’s direct ownership of Domashny, which was acquired subsequent to the adoption of these amendments, is also below 50%. The transfers of CTC and our owned-and-operated stations, other than with respect to our Moscow station that broadcasts CTC, was completed by the August 2002 deadline. The change in the 16 ownership structure for our Moscow station that broadcasts CTC was completed in December 2002, after the specified deadline. To date, no Russian governmental authorities have taken any action against our CTC-Moscow station for its failure to comply with the restrictions on foreign legal ownership by the August 2002 deadline. According to recent press reports, the Russian parliament plans to consider new legislation in 2007 to further restrict foreign ownership in a number of ‘‘key’’ industries. No draft legislation has been publicly released. If the Mass Media Law or any newly adopted law were to be interpreted by the Russian governmental authorities or a Russian court to extend to, and to prohibit, indirect foreign ownership of or control over Russian broadcasters of television or video programs, Russian governmental authorities may suspend or revoke broadcasting licenses and permits held by our networks and our owned-and-operated stations. If the Mass Media Law were to be amended, or any new law were to be adopted, to expressly restrict indirect foreign ownership and control of Russian television broadcasters and such amendments or law were to be applied retroactively, CTC Media could be obliged to restructure its ownership structure so that it complies with such interpretation of new requirements, including by divesting a controlling stake in our networks and our owned-and-operated stations. If CTC Media were required to restructure its ownership structure in accordance with such new requirements and failed to do so or to do so in a timely manner, Russian governmental authorities could suspend or revoke broadcasting licenses and permits held by our networks and our owned-and-operated stations. Increasing demand for popular Russian content, as well as competition for popular foreign programming, may result in continued material increases in our programming costs, which could materially adversely affect our operating margins and results of operations. Our ability to attract and retain viewers depends primarily on our success in offering programming that appeals to our target audiences. Russian viewer preferences have been changing in recent years, with increasing demand for programming produced in Russia. We have responded to this change by increasing the percentage of Russian-produced programming we air, most of which we license or develop with third-party producers. To continue to increase audience share, we believe we will need to continue to increase the amount of Russian-produced programming broadcast on our networks. As of December 31, 2006, Russian programming accounted for approximately 42% of the carrying value of our programming rights. There is currently a limited supply of Russian-produced programming and strong competition among the Russian networks and channels for such programming. Russian-produced programming aimed at our target audience is generally more expensive for us to license than comparable western programming. Therefore, we believe that our programming costs will continue to increase in absolute terms and possibly also relative to our advertising revenues. Although we expect to continue to increase the amount of Russian content we air in the future, we plan to continue to offer a selection of high-quality western programming. As the television advertising market in Russia has grown, competition for western, as well as Russian-produced, programming has resulted in a general increase in programming costs. For example, we estimate that the average contractual cost per hour of the original Russian programming we commissioned in 2006 was 9% greater than that of the programming we commissioned in 2005. During the past several years, we have been able to collaborate with some of our competitors, including Channel One, in licensing programming from major studios based in the United States, as well as Russian producers and distributors, on a shared basis. Under these sharing arrangements, the cost of these programming rights to us is substantially reduced. If, in the future, high-quality television programming were unavailable on a shared basis, the costs to us of obtaining licenses for this programming could increase significantly or we may be unable to obtain access to such programming. If we are unable to maintain our access to such programming, we might attract a smaller audience share, resulting in a decrease in our advertising revenues. If we are unable to secure a steady supply of high-quality programming, or if we fail to anticipate, identify or react appropriately to changes in Russian viewer tastes by providing appropriate programming, 17 our audience share could be negatively affected, which would adversely affect our advertising revenues. Moreover, if any of the programming we license or commission does not achieve the audience share levels we anticipate, we may be required to write-off all or a portion of the carrying cost of such programming, or we could be forced to broadcast more expensive programming to maintain audience share, both of which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. A reduction in our audience shares and ratings could result in a reduction in our advertising revenues. The level of advertising revenues that we receive is directly tied to our audience share and ratings. If our audience share or ratings were to fall as a result, for example, of competitive pressures, the underperformance of key programs, particularly in primetime, the failure to renew licenses, or a change in the method of measuring television audiences, this could result in a material decrease in our advertising revenues. A change in the method of measuring television audiences could reduce our audience share and ratings. The system of audience measurement has been evolving in Russia as the advertising market has matured and in response to changing Russian demographics. Most recently, TNS Gallup Media changed the composition and weighting of its panel of measured cities, effective January 1, 2006, based upon 2002 Russian census data that indicated shifting demographic patterns, most notably the movement of populations from rural and smaller urban areas to larger urban areas and a decrease in the percentage of children in the total population. As a result of these changes, 12 additional cities were added to the panel of 40 cities with populations exceeding 100,000 where audiences were previously measured, and the weight of Moscow in the universe of measured cities increased from approximately 12.8% to 15.5%. The overall impact of the change in the measuring methods resulted in slightly lower audience shares in 2006 for our networks than would have been achieved under the earlier measurement methods. This can be explained, in part, by the decrease in children in the weighting, a demographic where CTC has traditionally been particularly strong, and an increase in the weight of Moscow in the universe of measured cities, where CTC’s ratings are typically lower than in many other Russian cities as a result of greater competition among broadcasters in Moscow. When changes to the system of audience measurement occur, we attempt to take steps in respect of our programming and distribution to counteract the effects of such changes. We cannot assure you that these steps or any further changes in the measurement systems would not result in a decrease in our audience share, which could result in a material decrease in our advertising revenues. The loss of licenses, or the failure to comply with the terms of licenses, could result in the loss of audience share. All broadcast television stations in Russia are required to have broadcast and other operating licenses, which generally have renewable terms of five years. Only a limited number of such licenses are available in each locality. In addition, Russian law could be interpreted as requiring cable television operators to have broadcast and other operating licenses for each of the channels or networks they transmit on their cable systems. Not all of the independent cable television operators that currently carry our networks possess such licenses. The issuance of a license, as well as the terms and conditions of any license, are often subject to the exercise of broad discretion by governmental authorities. The broadcast licenses of our affiliate stations also contain various restrictions and obligations, including requirements with respect to the minimum amount of Russian-produced programming (usually requiring at least 50%) as well as locally-produced programming. Our affiliates have not always been in full compliance with all requirements of their licenses or obtained all the licenses necessary for broadcasting. If the terms of a license are not fulfilled, or if a television station violates applicable Russian legislation or regulations, the license may be suspended or terminated (which decision may be appealed in court). If an affiliate were to broadcast without all the necessary licenses, broadcasting may be terminated and fines could be imposed. The loss of an existing broadcast license, or the failure to obtain a broadcast license in a new market, could reduce or limit the coverage of our networks and result in a loss of audience share and a fall in ratings, which could materially adversely affect our advertising revenues and business. 18 The inability of our affiliates to renew existing licenses upon expiration of their terms could also result in the loss of audience share. The renewal of existing licenses is often subject to the exercise of broad discretion by governmental authorities. In addition, the Russian governmental reorganization during 2004 resulted in extensive delays in the renewal of expiring and expired licenses for all broadcasters. Of our more than 300 affiliates at the CTC Network (including cable television operators) as of December 31, 2006, 193, including all our owned-and-operated stations and unmanned repeater transmitters, operate pursuant to broadcast licenses. Of these, the licenses of approximately 15% had expired as of January 31, 2007 and are being extended or modified. Of our 17 owned-and-operated stations that broadcast CTC, the license of one station is currently scheduled to expire by July 2007, and we are in the process of renewing that license. Of our more than 210 affiliates at the Domashny Network (including cable television operators) as of December 31, 2006, 41, including our owned-and-operated stations and unmanned repeater transmitters, operate pursuant to broadcast licenses. Of these, the licenses of seven, including the license of one owned-and-operated station, had expired and were being renewed as of December 31, 2006, and an additional eight licenses expire before the end of 2007. The inability to renew an existing broadcast license, particularly in a significant market, could reduce or limit the coverage of our networks and result in a loss of audience share and a fall in ratings, which could materially adversely affect our advertising revenues and business. The loss of independent affiliates could result in a loss of audience share and a fall in ratings. We seek to enter into formal agreements with our independent affiliate stations that govern various aspects of the broadcast of our network programming. These agreements generally provide each party with the right to terminate the agreement on 60-days’ notice without penalty. In certain instances, particularly in smaller cities and towns and with local cable networks, our arrangements are governed by letters of understanding that provide us with only limited recourse in the event of a disagreement. We do not pay fees to any of our independent affiliates in return for broadcasting our networks, although we understand that other networks in Russia have done so in some instances. If an independent affiliate in a larger market, particularly in those cities where audiences are measured and in which we do not own and operate a station, were to terminate its agreement with us or to lose its ability to broadcast our signal, this could result in a decrease in our audience share. For example, in April 2006 an independent affiliate in Novosibirsk, a city in which audience share is measured, lost the right to broadcast CTC’s signal. Although we had already purchased a new station in that city, we were not able to begin broadcasting on that station until May 2006. As an interim measure, we broadcast the CTC signal on a weaker UHF channel for several weeks. As a result of that channel’s more limited coverage, we estimate that the audience share of our CTC Network was approximately 0.15 percentage points lower during that time than it would otherwise have been. Although the termination of the relationship with us or the loss of the ability to broadcast by one such independent affiliate would not have a material effect on us, several such occurrences taken together could result in a material decrease in our advertising revenues. Our overall audience share and ratings in any period may be influenced by the success of a small number of highly popular programs, and we may not be able consistently to select or obtain rights to new programs that are as popular. From time to time we air one or two ‘‘hit’’ series during primetime that contribute disproportionately to our overall audience share, resulting in an overall audience share that we may not be able to sustain once that ‘‘hit’’ series is discontinued or loses popularity. If we do not consistently select programs or obtain rights to programs that achieve particularly high audience shares in key time slots, our overall audience share and, therefore, our revenues will be adversely affected. We rely on third parties for the production of original Russian programming, and our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to continue such relationships on acceptable terms. We have no in-house capability to produce full-length original programming and therefore rely on third-party production houses, particularly A-Media, which has produced several of our most successful 19 original programs. In 2006, A-Media Group accounted in monetary terms for approximately 22% of the total programming rights we acquired that year. If we are unable to continue our close working relationships with the production houses we use or to develop new relationships, our ability to air premium new Russian content may be impeded, which would likely result in a loss of audience share and therefore a reduction in our share of the television advertising market. We rely on third parties to provide us with re-transmission capabilities in certain locations, and our business would be adversely affected if such parties terminated or adversely changed the terms of those relationships. In certain locations, we depend on cable operators or other third parties to carry our signal. In Moscow, television signals are transmitted from a central tower to roof antennas located on buildings throughout the city, and then amplified for retransmission within the buildings. The original system, which was introduced in the 1960’s, carried only six VHF channels. Mostelecom, the local provider, upgraded a number of roof antenna systems from 1997 to 2004 to add capacity for a limited number of additional channels. We collaborated with Mostelecom in this project, paying an amount per additional household connected, in order to help ensure that we were allocated access on Mostelecom’s systems where capacity was increased. Both CTC and Domashny are currently carried on these systems where capacity was increased. Unlike the state-controlled national channels, however, we have no legal or contractual guarantee that Mostelecom will continue to carry our signals. A similar technical system is in place in St. Petersburg, operated by the local provider; there, too, we have no binding contractual right of access to the system. If Mostelecom or another local provider, or any of their successors, were to deny us access on the applicable system, our audience share and television advertising market share in the locality in question would both be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to compete successfully against other television channels and networks that may have broader coverage, greater name recognition, larger market share, wider programming content or access to more funding than we do, or with newer niche channels offering competitive programming formats. The Russian television broadcasting business is highly competitive. Both CTC and Domashny compete for audience share with other national television networks and channels and with local stations, as well as with niche broadcasters. We compete on the basis of both the actual and anticipated size of our audiences for specific time slots, as well as the demographic characteristics of our viewers. On a national level, CTC competes directly with other national broadcast networks and channels, including Channel One, Rossiya and NTV, as well as with the smaller networks REN-TV and TNT. The Domashny Network competes for advertising revenues primarily with other smaller channels such as DTV, MTV, TV-3 and TVC, although it also competes with the national broadcast networks and channels for viewers within its target demographic group. On a local level, our owned-and-operated stations compete with other stations for local advertising. We also compete to a limited extent with pay television services and other advertising media. Channel One and Rossiya were established as state television channels during the Soviet period and they remain under Russian state control. As a result, we understand that these channels receive state benefits not generally available to private companies, including free signal transmission (in the case of Channel One) and direct state budget subsidies (in the case of Rossiya) and preferences in licensing. Moreover, nearly every viewing household in Russia can receive the broadcast signals of Channel One and Rossiya, while only a more limited viewing audience can currently receive our network signals. The much broader coverage and name recognition of Channel One and Rossiya, coupled with programming geared toward a broader demographic group, help them to attract large audience shares. NTV, which is indirectly controlled by the state through Gazprom, the state-controlled natural gas and oil company, also has a broader coverage than CTC and Domashny, and we believe also benefits from free signal transmission. Channel One had an audience share of 21.3% in 2006, while Rossiya’s was 19.5% and NTV’s was 12.8%. We believe that such strong audience shares may give these broadcasters added leverage in negotiations with advertisers, advertising agencies and sales houses. As we focus on entertainment programming, we are unable to compete with other broadcasters for audiences for news and sporting programs, some of which have among the highest audience shares and ratings in their time slots. 20 We have substantial future programming commitments that we may not be able to vary in response to a decline in advertising revenues, and as a result could experience material reductions in operating margins. Programming represents our most significant expense, and at any given time we generally have substantial fixed commitments for the succeeding two to three years. For example, as of December 31, 2006 we had contractual commitments for the acquisition of approximately $44.8 million in programming rights through 2007 and an additional $7.6 million in 2008-2009. Given the size of these commitments at any time, a reduction in our advertising revenues could adversely affect our operating margins and results of operations. We would have only limited ability to reduce our costs in the short-run in response to such developments. We may seek to make acquisitions of other stations, networks, content providers or other complementary media companies in the future, and may fail to identify suitable targets, acquire them on acceptable terms or successfully integrate them. The acquisition and integration of new companies pose significant risks to our existing operations, including: • additional demands placed on our senior management, who are also responsible for managing our existing operations; • increased overall operating complexity of our business, requiring greater personnel and other resources; • difficulties of expanding beyond our core expertise, in the event that we acquire content providers or other ancillary businesses; • significant initial cash expenditures to acquire and integrate new businesses; and • incurrence of debt to finance acquisitions and higher debt service costs related thereto. Moreover, the integration of new businesses may also be difficult for a variety of reasons, including differing cultures or management styles, poor target records or internal controls and an inability to establish control over cash flows. Furthermore, even if we are successful in integrating new businesses, expected synergies and cost savings may not materialize, resulting in lower than expected profit margins. Our relationships with the co-owners of our television stations may limit our ability to implement our business plans and strategy. Twelve of our 25 owned-and-operated stations that are currently broadcasting our networks’ signals are 100% owned by CTC Media. Other investors own between less than 1% and 50% of each of the remaining 14 owned-and-operated stations. In some cases, we depend to a significant extent on our local partners for their familiarity with the local business environment and public authorities and we understand that some of our local partners are also minority shareholders in the local Video International subsidiary that sells local advertising for our owned-and-operated stations. Moreover, we may in the future similarly rely on joint-owners as we acquire additional stations. Any significant disruption in our relationship with these parties could make it more difficult for us to operate our existing stations. Russian law and some of the agreements governing these stations grant protective rights to our co-owners that enable them to block certain significant corporate actions. Under Russian company law, significant corporate decisions, such as declaring and paying dividends and entering into substantial transactions, require the consent of the holders of two-thirds or three-quarters of the voting interests of the company, depending on the subject matter and the legal structure of the company. In addition, unanimous shareholder approval is required in limited instances, which could further affect our control over certain actions. For example, approval of a joint stock company’s initial charter and reorganization of a joint stock company into a non-commercial partnership require 100% approval of shareholders and, in the case of a limited liability company, increases in charter capital, amendments to a limited liability company’s charter, and liquidation, among other actions, require 100% approval of the holders of participation interests. 21 As a result, we are often required to obtain the consent of our co-owners when making significant corporate decisions. Although we are not aware of any specific transaction in which we failed to obtain the requisite approval of the co-owners of our stations, due to the formalistic nature of Russian law and the large number of corporate actions that are taken annually by our co-owned stations, we believe it is likely that, from time to time, not all necessary minority shareholder consents have been obtained. As a result, we cannot guarantee that co-owners of our stations will not bring claims against us for failure to obtain these necessary consents, which, if successful, could result in the transaction in question being voided. Moreover, even if not technically required by law or contract, we generally prefer to obtain the consent and support of our co-owners before undertaking significant corporate actions. If this consent cannot be obtained, we may decide to forego a transaction that is commercially favorable to us in an effort to preserve goodwill with our co-owners. A systems failure could prevent us from transmitting our network signal and lead to a loss of viewers, damage to our reputation and a reduction in our advertising revenues. The CTC and Domashny Network signals originate at our Moscow center and are uplinked to two separate satellite systems, plus one backup system, that transmit our network signals to our affiliate stations and unmanned repeater transmitters. We experienced a signal outage on one of the primary systems on March 29, 2006 for approximately three hours in Eastern Siberia and the Russian Far East. Prior to its replacement, we also experienced signal outages on three occasions, once for nine hours, from one of our primary satellites. There can be no assurance that we will not experience future disruptions in the satellite transmission of our network signal to our affiliates, or that our affiliates will not experience disruptions in broadcasting our signal similar to that which occurred at Ostankino tower. Prolonged or repeated disruptions in the CTC or Domashny signal could lead to a loss of viewers, damage to our reputation and a reduction in our advertising revenues. We do not carry business interruption insurance to protect us in the event of a catastrophe or termination of CTC’s or Domashny’s ability to transmit their signals, even though such an event could have a significant negative impact on our business. One of our principal stockholders owns a controlling interest in a competing Russian television network, and its interests may conflict with ours. One of our principal stockholders, MTG Broadcasting AB, an affiliate of the publicly listed Modern Times Group MTG AB (‘‘MTG’’), owns 100% of ZAO TV Darial (‘‘DTV’’), a Russian television network with which we compete. Hans-Holger Albrecht, the president and CEO of MTG, is a Co-Chairman of our board and Maria Brunell, the former chief financial officer of MTG and current chief executive officer of one of MTG’s principal stockholders, is also one of our directors. We understand that Mr. Albrecht and Kaj Gradevik, another member of our board of directors, serve on the board of DTV. DTV broadcasts a mix of entertainment programming that is similar to the programming on CTC. Its audience share for 2006 was 1.7%. We have a non-competition agreement with MTG pursuant to which it has agreed that it will not compete with us in the area of free-to-air television in Russia and certain other CIS countries, other than through DTV, and agreeing to certain restrictions on DTV’s activities in Russia. Nevertheless, MTG’s ownership of one of our competitors may result in conflicts of interest among MTG, us and our other stockholders in circumstances in which our interests are not aligned. We can provide no assurance that any such conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Loss of key personnel could affect our growth and future success. We believe that our growth and our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to continue to retain our Chief Executive Officer and to attract and retain other highly skilled senior management, finance and marketing personnel. The competition for qualified personnel in Russia who are familiar with the television industry in Russia and/or who are knowledgeable about U.S. accounting and legal practices is intense. We may encounter particular difficulty in hiring and/or retaining appropriate financial staff in Russia needed to enable us to comply with the internal controls requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related regulations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to hire and retain qualified personnel on reasonable terms or at all. 22 We do not carry all of the insurance coverage customary in many countries for a business of our size and nature, and as a result could experience substantial loss or disruption. The insurance industry is not yet well developed in Russia, and many forms of insurance protection common in other countries are not yet available in Russia on comparable terms, including coverage for business interruption. At present, we have no coverage for business interruption or loss of key management personnel. We do not maintain separate funds or otherwise set aside reserves for these types of losses. Any such loss may cause substantial disruption and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Decreases in the value of the Russian ruble compared with the US dollar could materially adversely affect our results of operations. The value of the Russian ruble has risen generally against the US dollar in recent years. In 2006, the ruble appreciated approximately 9.3% against the US dollar. However, the ruble has in the past declined substantially against the US dollar, including a significant drop as a result of the economic crisis of 1998. Prior to 2006, our principal source of revenue (contracts for the placement of advertising) was denominated primarily in US dollars. Because our expenses were also primarily denominated in US dollars, the impact on our results of the ruble depreciation was insignificant. Beginning in January 2006, substantially all new advertising contracts between Video International and advertisers are ruble-denominated with the result that substantially all of our advertising revenues in 2007 are denominated in rubles as our longer-term advertising contracts denominated in US dollars expire and are replaced. In response, we shifted a substantial majority of our operating expenses from dollars to rubles. Nevertheless, we can give no assurance that we are adequately protected from the impact of currency fluctuations. Moreover, given that our reporting currency is the US dollar, rubles held in banks and other ruble-denominated assets and liabilities could fluctuate in line with any change in the value of the ruble. As a result of these factors, any decline in the value of the Russian ruble against the US dollar could materially adversely affect our results of operations. We do not currently undertake any hedging transactions to offset any decline in the value of our ruble cash or non-cash assets, but are currently evaluating options in this regard. Risks relating to the political environment in Russia Businesses in Russia, especially media companies, can be subject to politically motivated actions, which could materially adversely affect our operations. The Russian government has taken various actions in recent years against business people and companies operating in Russia that have been perceived as having been politically motivated, including actions for technical violations of law or violations of laws that have been applied retroactively, including violations of tax laws. These actions have on occasion resulted in significant fluctuations in the market prices of the securities of businesses operating in Russia, a weakening of investor confidence in Russia and doubts about the progress of market and political reforms in Russia. These concerns were intensified as a result of the events leading to the imprisonment of Mikhail Khordorkovsky and the effective re-nationalization of Yukos, the oil company he controlled. Media businesses can be particularly vulnerable to politically motivated actions, in particular ahead of national elections such as the presidential election scheduled for 2008. NTV, TV-6 and TVS have all experienced what some would characterize as politically motivated actions, including efforts to effect changes of control. As a result of these actions, TV-6, which became TVS, is no longer broadcasting. We believe that our focus on entertainment, and the fact that we broadcast entertainment and celebrity news, but do not offer ‘‘hard’’ news, commentary or analysis on our national networks, could lessen the risk of provoking politically motivated actions. However, we do not restrict the ability of our independent affiliates to broadcast local news in local broadcasting windows, and approximately 20% of our independent affiliates, as well as two of our owned-and-operated stations that carry the CTC Network, 23 broadcast local political news, generally with the approval of our local partners and the local authorities. Any action against us, our networks, or any of our principal stockholders, including Alfa Group, which is active in many industries in Russia, could materially adversely affect our operations. Broader political developments could adversely affect our business operations and financial condition. The current Russian presidential administration has taken a number of steps to expand its authority, including by further centralizing power in a number of areas and removing decision making authority from the federal regions. The ultimate extent or impact of these changes is uncertain. These and future changes in the government, major policy shifts or lack of consensus between various branches of the government and powerful economic groups could disrupt or reverse economic and regulatory reforms. In addition, the Russian presidential elections scheduled for 2008 could bring more volatility to the market. Any disruption or reversal of reform policies could lead to political or governmental instability or the occurrence of conflicts among powerful economic groups, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects and the value of our common stock. It has been widely reported in the Russian and foreign media that the Russian government is exerting pressure on the so-called ‘‘oligarchs’’ to cause them to divest their commercial interests in certain areas of economic activity. The media have also reported that the government has exerted significant influence on companies owned or controlled by the oligarchs through tax inspections, management changes, threats of and actual prosecution of management and key officials, and other means. Real and perceived pressure on the oligarchs and their businesses has seriously affected the economic activities of these enterprises and their management. If the current or future governments in Russia were to apply significant pressure on Alfa Group and its affiliated companies, it could have serious adverse effects on our operations and financial results. Such effects could include, but would not be limited to, the inability of the board of directors to act independently from external pressure and the distraction of our management from our day-to-day operations. Civil conflicts could adversely affect the value of investments in Russia, which could result in a decline in the value of our common stock. Ethnic, religious, historical and other divisions have, on occasion, given rise to tensions and, in certain cases, military conflict, such as the continuing conflict in Chechnya, which has brought normal economic activity within Chechnya to a halt and disrupted the economies of neighboring regions. The further intensification of violence, including terrorist activities, or its continued spread to other parts of Russia, could have significant political consequences, including the imposition of a state of emergency in some or all of Russia. Moreover, any terrorist attacks and the resulting heightened security measures may cause disruptions to domestic commerce, and could materially adversely affect our business and the value of our common stock. Risks relating to the economic environment in Russia Emerging markets such as Russia are subject to greater risks than more developed markets and financial turmoil in any emerging market could disrupt our business, as well as cause the price of our common stock to decline. Generally, investment in emerging markets is only suitable for sophisticated investors who fully appreciate the significance of the risks involved in, and are familiar with, investing in such markets. Emerging markets such as Russia are also subject to rapid change, and financial turmoil in any emerging market country tends to adversely affect prices of the stock of companies operating in other emerging market countries as investors move their money to more stable, developed markets. As has happened in the past, financial problems or an increase in the perceived risks associated with investing in emerging economies could dampen foreign investment in Russia and adversely affect the Russian economy. 24 Economic instability in Russia could reduce spending on television advertising, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Since the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the Russian economy has experienced at various times: • significant declines in gross domestic product; • hyperinflation; • an unstable currency; • high government debt relative to gross domestic product; • a weak banking system providing limited liquidity to Russian enterprises; • a large number of loss-making enterprises that continued to operate due to the lack of effective bankruptcy proceedings; • significant use of barter transactions and illiquid promissory notes to settle commercial transactions; • widespread tax evasion; • the growth of black and gray market economies; • pervasive capital flight; • high levels of corruption and the penetration of organized crime into the economy; • significant increases in unemployment and underemployment; and • the impoverishment of a large portion of the Russian population. Though recent increases in global commodity prices have resulted in increases in disposable income and consumer spending in Russia, the Russian economy has been subject to abrupt downturns, including the severe crisis of 1998. Many of the largest advertisers in the Russian market, including many of the largest advertisers on CTC and Domashny, are multinational companies that sell consumer products on a worldwide basis. If Russia experiences significant economic or political instability or uncertainty, such as that which occurred during the 1998 financial crisis, these companies may choose to reduce their advertising spending in Russia. If overall spending by these companies in the Russian television advertising market falls substantially, our advertising revenues may be significantly reduced, materially adversely affecting our results of operations. Russia’s inexperience with a market economy also poses numerous risks. It is difficult for us or our business partners to gauge the creditworthiness of some of our advertisers and business partners, as there are no reliable mechanisms, such as credit reports or credit databases, for evaluating their financial condition. Consequently, we face the risk that some of our advertisers will fail to pay us or that they or other service providers, such as production houses, will fail to comply with the terms of their agreements with us, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Recent trends in the Russian economy — such as the increase in the gross domestic product, a relatively stable ruble and a reduced rate of inflation — may not continue or may be abruptly reversed. Additionally, because Russia produces and exports large quantities of natural gas and oil, the Russian economy is especially vulnerable to fluctuations in the price of these commodities on the world market. A strengthening of the ruble in real terms relative to the US dollar, changes in monetary policy, inflation, a decline in natural gas and oil prices or other factors could adversely affect Russia’s economy and our business in the future. Any such market downturn or economic slowdown could also severely limit our and our customers’ access to capital, also adversely affecting our and our customers’ businesses in the future. The Russian banking system remains underdeveloped, and another banking crisis could place severe liquidity constraints on our business. Russia’s banking and other financial systems are less developed and regulated than those of many other developed countries, and Russian legislation relating to banks and bank accounts is subject to 25 varying interpretations and inconsistent application. The August 1998 financial crisis resulted in the bankruptcy and liquidation of many Russian banks and almost entirely eliminated the developing market for commercial bank loans at that time. Many Russian banks do not meet international banking standards, and the transparency of the Russian banking sector still lags far behind internationally accepted norms. In part due to inadequate supervision by regulators, certain banks do not follow existing Central Bank of Russia regulations with respect to lending criteria, credit quality, loan loss reserves or diversification of exposure. Furthermore, Russian bank deposits made by corporate entities generally are not insured. Recently, there has been a rapid increase in lending by Russian banks, which many believe has been accompanied by a deterioration in the credit quality of borrowers. In addition, a robust domestic corporate debt market is leading to Russian banks increasingly holding large amounts of Russian corporate ruble bonds in their portfolios. Weaknesses in the Russian banking sector, combined with the relatively high risk credit portfolios of Russian banks, may result in the banking sector being more susceptible to market downturns or economic slowdowns, including due to Russian corporate defaults. In addition, the Russian Central Bank has from time to time revoked the licenses of certain Russian banks, which in the second quarter of 2004 resulted in market rumors about additional bank closures and many depositors withdrawing their savings. If a banking crisis were to occur, companies operating in Russia would be subject to severe liquidity constraints due to the limited supply of domestic savings and the withdrawal of foreign funding sources that would occur during such a crisis. There are currently a limited number of creditworthy Russian banks, most of which are located in Moscow and the largest of which are state-owned. Of our $91 million US dollar and 2,251 million ruble cash outstanding as of December 31, 2006, we held $22 million US dollars and all of our rubles in Russian banks (such as Alfa Bank, which is an affiliate of one of our principal stockholders), including subsidiaries of foreign banks. There are few, if any, safe ruble-denominated instruments in which we may invest our excess ruble cash. Another banking crisis or the bankruptcy or insolvency of the banks from which we receive or with which we hold our funds could result in the loss of our deposits or affect our ability to complete banking transactions in Russia, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. Risks relating to Russian legislation and the Russian legal system Weaknesses in the Russian legal system create an uncertain environment for investment and business activity and could have a material adverse effect on our business and the value of our common stock. Russia is still developing the legal framework required to support a market economy, and its legal system is largely characterized by: • inconsistencies between and among laws, presidential decrees and governmental, ministerial and local regulations, orders, decisions, resolutions and other acts; • substantial gaps in the regulatory structure resulting from the delay in adoption or absence of implementing regulations; • limited judicial and administrative guidance on interpreting Russian legislation; • the relative inexperience of judges and courts in interpreting recent commercial legislation; • a lack of judicial independence from political, social and commercial forces; • a high degree of discretion on the part of the judiciary and governmental authorities; and • poorly developed bankruptcy procedures that are subject to abuse. The independence of the judicial system and of the prosecutor general’s office and their immunity from economic, political and other influences have at times been questioned. The court system is understaffed and underfunded. Judges and courts are generally inexperienced in the area of business and corporate law. As is true of civil law systems generally, judicial precedents generally have no binding effect on subsequent decisions. Not all Russian legislation and court decisions are readily available to the public or organized in a manner that facilitates understanding. The Russian judicial system can be slow, and 26 enforcement of court orders can in practice be very difficult. All of these factors make judicial decisions in Russia difficult to predict and effective redress uncertain. Additionally, court claims and governmental prosecutions are sometimes used in furtherance of political aims. In addition, several key Russian laws, including the amended Communications Law and new law on advertising, have only recently become effective. The untested nature of much of recent Russian legislation, the lack of consensus about the scope, content and pace of economic and political reform and the rapid evolution of the Russian legal system in ways that may not always coincide with market developments may place the enforceability and underlying constitutionality of laws in doubt and result in ambiguities, inconsistencies and anomalies in the Russian legal system. Any of these weaknesses could affect our ability to enforce our rights under our licenses and under our contracts, or to defend ourselves against claims by others. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that regulators, judicial authorities or third parties will not challenge our compliance with applicable laws, decrees and regulations. These uncertainties also extend to property rights. Although legislation has been enacted to protect private property against expropriation and nationalization, due to the lack of experience in enforcing these provisions and due to political factors, these protections may not be enforced in the event of an attempted expropriation or nationalization. Expropriation or nationalization of any of our entities or their assets, potentially without adequate compensation, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Unlawful, selective or arbitrary government action may have an adverse effect on our business and the value of our common stock. Government authorities have a high degree of discretion in Russia and have at times exercised their discretion selectively or arbitrarily, without hearing or prior notice, and sometimes in a manner that is contrary to law or influenced by political or commercial considerations. The government also has the power, in certain circumstances, to interfere with the performance of, nullify or terminate contracts. Unlawful, selective or arbitrary actions have included withdrawal of licenses, sudden and unexpected tax audits, criminal prosecutions and civil actions. Federal and local government entities have also used common defects in documentation as pretexts for court claims and other demands to invalidate and/or to void transactions, apparently for political purposes. We cannot assure you that regulators, judicial authorities or third parties will not challenge our compliance (including that of our subsidiaries) with applicable laws, decrees and regulations in Russia. Unlawful or arbitrary government action could have a material adverse effect on our business and on the value of our common stock. If the Russian Federal Anti-monopoly Service were to conclude that we acquired or created a new company in contravention of anti-monopoly legislation, it could impose administrative sanctions and require the divestiture of this company or other assets. Our business has grown in part through the acquisition and establishment of companies, many of which required the prior approval of or subsequent notification to the Russian Federal Anti-monopoly Service or its predecessor agencies. In part, relevant legislation restricts the acquisition or establishment of companies by groups of companies or individuals acting in concert without this approval or notification. This legislation is vague in parts and subject to varying interpretations. If the Federal Anti-monopoly Service were to conclude that an acquisition or establishment of a new company was effected in contravention of applicable legislation and competition has been reduced as a result, it could impose administrative sanctions and require the divestiture of this company or other assets, adversely affecting our business strategy and our results of operations. Russian law requires the approval of certain transactions by the minority shareholders of our subsidiaries, including many of our own-and-operated television stations, and failure to receive this approval could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We own less than 100% of many of our owned-and-operated stations. Under Russian law, certain transactions defined as ‘‘interested party transactions’’ require approval by disinterested members of the board of directors or disinterested shareholders of the companies involved. Our owned-and-operated 27 stations that have other shareholders engage in numerous transactions with us that require interested party transaction approvals in accordance with Russian law. These transactions have not always been properly approved, and therefore may be contested by minority shareholders. In the event that these other shareholders were successfully to contest past interested party transactions, or prevent the approval of such transactions in the future, our flexibility in operating these television stations could be limited and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Certain transactions between members of our consolidated corporate group may constitute interested party transactions under Russian law even when the companies involved are wholly owned by us. Although we generally endeavor to obtain all corporate approvals required under Russian law to consummate these transactions, we have not always applied special approval procedures in connection with our consummation of transactions with or between our subsidiaries. In the event that a claim is filed in relation to certain transactions with or between our subsidiaries, such transactions are found to have been interested party transactions, and we are found to have failed to obtain the appropriate approvals, such transactions may be declared invalid. The unwinding of any transactions concluded with or between our subsidiaries may have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. If one of our principal subsidiaries is forced into liquidation due to negative net assets, our results of operations could suffer. If at the end of any fiscal year a Russian company’s net assets as determined in accordance with Russian accounting regulations are below the minimum amount of charter capital required by Russian law, the company is required to convene a shareholders meeting to adopt a decision to liquidate. If it fails to do so within a ‘‘reasonable period,’’ the company’s creditors may request early termination or acceleration of the company’s obligations to them, as well as damages, and governmental authorities may seek to cause the involuntary liquidation of the company. Under an earlier version of this law, the company’s shareholders could also bring an action to force the liquidation of the company. It is unclear under Russian law whether an historical violation of this requirement may be retroactively cured, even if a company later comes into compliance with the requirement. On occasion, Russian courts have ordered the involuntary liquidation of a company for having negative net assets even if the company has continued to fulfill its obligations and had net assets in excess of the minimum amount at the time of liquidation. At December 31, 2003 and at prior dates, CTC Network, our most significant subsidiary, had net assets below the minimum charter capital required by law, as reported in its Russian statutory accounting statements. As of year end 2006, ten of our subsidiaries, including the Domashny Network, failed to meet the minimum net assets requirements. In 2006, approximately 8% of our consolidated revenues were attributable to these subsidiaries. None of these companies has applied for voluntary liquidation. We have not taken any steps to remedy the negative net asset value of these subsidiaries or included it as a contingency in our financial statements because we believe that, so long as these subsidiaries continue to fulfill their obligations, the risk of their forced liquidation is remote. There has been no judicial or other official interpretation of what constitutes a ‘‘reasonable period’’ within which a company must act to liquidate. If Domashny or any of our other subsidiaries were to be liquidated involuntarily, we would be forced to reorganize the operations we currently conduct through that subsidiary. The liquidation of any of the subsidiaries within our Television Station Groups would result in the termination of their existing broadcast and other licenses, and we cannot assure you that we would be able to secure new licenses needed for these stations to continue to operate. Accordingly, any liquidation could have a material adverse effect on our business. Shareholder liability under Russian legislation could cause us to become liable for the obligations of our subsidiaries. The Russian Civil Code, the Law on Joint Stock Companies and the Law on Limited Liability Companies generally provide that shareholders in a Russian joint stock company or limited liability company are not liable for the obligations of the company and bear only the risk of loss of their investment. This may not be the case, however, when one person (an ‘‘effective parent’’) is capable of determining decisions made by another (an ‘‘effective subsidiary’’). The effective parent bears joint and several responsibility for transactions concluded by the effective subsidiary in carrying out these decisions if: 28 • this decision-making capability is provided for in the charter of the effective subsidiary or in a contract between the companies; and • the effective parent gives obligatory directions to the effective subsidiary. In addition, an effective parent is secondarily liable for an effective subsidiary’s debts if an effective subsidiary becomes insolvent or bankrupt as a result of the action or inaction of an effective parent. This is the case no matter how the effective parent’s capability to determine decisions of the effective subsidiary arises. For example, this liability could arise through ownership of voting securities or by contract. In these instances, other shareholders of the effective subsidiary may claim compensation for the effective subsidiary’s losses from the effective parent that caused the effective subsidiary to act or fail to act, knowing that such action or inaction would result in losses. Accordingly, in our position as an effective parent, we could be liable in some cases for the debts of our effective subsidiaries. Although the total indebtedness of our effective subsidiaries is currently immaterial, it is possible that we could face material liability in this regard in the future, which could materially adversely affect our business and our results of operations. Changes in the Russian tax system or arbitrary or unforeseen application of existing rules could materially adversely affect our financial condition. Our tax burden may become greater than the estimated amount that we have expensed to date and paid or accrued on our balance sheets. Russian tax authorities have often been arbitrary and aggressive in their interpretation of tax laws and their many ambiguities, as well as in their enforcement and collection activities. Many companies are often forced to negotiate their tax bills with tax inspectors who may demand higher taxes than applicable law appears to provide. Any additional tax liability, as well as any unforeseen changes in Russian tax laws, could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations or cash flows in a particular period. We have at times accrued substantial amounts for probable contingent tax liabilities, a substantial portion of which accruals we have reversed as contingencies have been resolved favorably or changes in circumstances have occurred. The amounts currently accrued for probable tax contingencies may not be sufficient to meet any liability we may ultimately face. We have also identified possible tax contingencies of up to approximately $4.5 million for which we have not provided an accrual. Such possible tax contingencies could materialize and require us to pay additional amounts of tax. Under Russian accounting and tax principles, financial statements of Russian companies are not consolidated for tax purposes. As a result, each Russian-registered entity in our group pays its own Russian taxes and we cannot offset the profits or losses in any single entity against the profits and losses of any other entity. Consequently, our overall effective tax rate may increase as we expand our operations, unless we are able to implement an effective corporate structure that minimizes the effect of these Russian accounting and tax norms. The Russian tax system imposes additional burdens and costs on our operations in Russia, and complicates our tax planning and related business decisions. The uncertainty involved potentially exposes us to significant fines and penalties and enforcement measures despite our best efforts at compliance, and could result in a greater than expected tax burden on our subsidiaries. These factors raise the risk of a sudden imposition of arbitrary or onerous taxes on our operations in Russia. This could adversely affect our business and the value of our common stock. Any U.S. or other foreign judgments you may obtain against us may be difficult to enforce against us in Russia. Although CTC Media is a Delaware corporation, subject to suit in U.S. federal and other courts, we have no operations in the United States, many of our assets are located in Russia, and most of our directors and their assets are located outside the United States. Although arbitration awards are generally enforceable in Russia, judgments obtained in the United States or in other foreign courts, including those with respect to U.S. federal securities law claims, may not be enforceable in Russia. There is no mutual recognition treaty between the United States and the Russian Federation, and no Russian federal law 29 provides for the recognition and enforcement of foreign court judgments. Therefore, it may be difficult meaningfully to enforce any U.S. or other foreign court judgment obtained against our company, any of our operating subsidiaries or any of our directors in Russia. Risks relating to our stock The price of our common stock may be volatile. Prior to June 1, 2006, there was no public trading market for our common stock. Moreover, as of February 19, 2007, approximately 25% of our outstanding common stock was held by parties other than our directors, executive officers and principal stockholders and their respective affiliates. As a result, only a relatively small number of shares of our common stock are currently actively traded in the public market. The relative immaturity of the trading market for our common stock and the limited liquidity may have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. The stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation. If equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock will rely in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. We do not control these analysts. The price of our stock could decline if one or more equity research analysts downgrade our stock or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. Insiders continue to have substantial control over us and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control. As of February 19, 2007, our directors, executive officers and principal stockholders, and their respective affiliates, beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 75% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, may have the ability to determine the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these persons, acting together, may have the ability to control the management and affairs of our company. In particular, our principal stockholders have entered into a voting arrangement that determines the composition of our board of directors. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could prevent or delay change-of-control transactions. Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our charter documents may make a change in control of our company more difficult. For example: • Stockholders’ meetings may only be called by one of the Co-Chairmen of our board of directors, our Chief Executive Officer or the majority of the board of directors. • Our stockholders may not take action by written consent. • We have a classified board of directors, which means that our directors serve for staggered three-year terms and only one-third of our directors are elected each year. This structure may make it more difficult for an acquiror to take control of our company, which may make our company a less desirable acquisition target. 30 Delaware law also prohibits a corporation from engaging in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock until the holder has held the stock for three years unless, among other possibilities, the board of directors approves the transaction. The board may use this provision to prevent changes in our management. Under applicable Delaware law, our board of directors may adopt additional anti-takeover measures in the future. In addition, we are party to a stockholders’ agreement with our three largest stockholders pursuant to which each of these stockholders has agreed not to acquire additional shares of our capital stock to the extent that such acquisition would cause its beneficial ownership to exceed 50% of the voting power of our outstanding shares without making a tender offer for all of our outstanding shares in compliance with the tender offer rules under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, unless it reaches this ownership level through the exercise of rights of first offer set forth in the stockholders’ agreement. If there are substantial sales of our common stock in the market by our existing stockholders, our stock price could decline. If our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock or the public market perceives that existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. The holders of over 75% of common stock have the right under specified circumstances to require us to register their shares for resale to the public or participate in a registration of shares by us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 