Risk factors—Risks related to Government Regulation.” Employees At December 31, 2008, we had 883 employees. None of our employees is represented by a labor union, and we believe our employee relations are good. Seasonality Our business is generally seasonal in nature, and historically demand for our products has been the highest in the fourth quarter. Our working capital requirements vary from period to period depending on manufacturing volumes, the timing of deliveries and the payment cycles of our customers. Inventory and Working Capital Our manufacturing operations require a wide variety of raw materials. We purchase integrated circuits and other key components for use in our products. For certain components, which are currently single sourced, there are relatively few sources of supply. Although we believe that other suppliers could provide similar components on comparable terms, establishment of additional or replacement suppliers cannot be accomplished quickly. In addition, while we generally attempt to keep our inventory at minimal levels, we purchase incremental inventory as circumstances warrant to protect our supply chain. At December 31, 2008, our working capital was $182.1 million and we believe our current cash and cash equivalents and our short-term available-for-sale investments will be sufficient to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures, and operations for at least the next twelve months. We intend to retain any future earnings to support operations and to finance the growth and development of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any dividends in the foreseeable future. At the present time, we have no material commitments for capital expenditures. Corporate Information We were incorporated in the state of Delaware in January 2000 and until 2003 were a development stage company substantially devoted to the research and development of tools designed to diagnose vulnerable plaque. In July 2003, we acquired substantially all of the assets related to the IVUS and FM product lines from Jomed, Inc. and commenced the manufacturing, sale and distribution of IVUS and FM products. Our principal executive offices are located in San Diego, California. Available Information Our corporate website is www.volcanocorp.com and our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding the company, at www.sec.gov. These reports and other information concerning the company may also be accessed at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, our references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 14 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We are dependent on the success of our IVUS consoles and catheters and cannot be certain that our products will achieve the broad acceptance necessary to develop a sustainable, profitable business. Our revenues are primarily derived from sales of our IVUS products, which include our consoles and our single-procedure disposable catheters. We expect that sales of our IVUS products will continue to account for more than 75% of our revenues for the foreseeable future. IVUS technology is widely used for determining the placement of stents in patients with coronary disease in Japan, where we believe, based on internal estimates, the procedure penetration rate was over 63% in 2008. By contrast, the penetration rate in the United States for the same type of procedure was approximately 14% in 2008. It is difficult to predict the penetration and future growth rate or size of the market for IVUS technology. The expansion of the IVUS market depends on a number of factors, such as: • physicians accepting the benefits of the use of IVUS in conjunction with angiography; • physician experience with IVUS products; • the availability of, and physicians’ willingness to participate in, training required to gain proficiency in the use of IVUS products; • the additional procedure time required for use of IVUS; • the perceived risks generally associated with the use of new products and procedures; • the availability of alternative treatments or procedures that are perceived to be or are more effective, safer, easier to use or less costly than IVUS technology; • the availability of adequate reimbursement; and • the marketing efforts and publicity regarding IVUS technology. Even if IVUS technology gains wide market acceptance, our IVUS products may not adequately address market requirements and may not continue to gain market acceptance among physicians, healthcare payors and the medical community due to factors such as: • the lack of perceived benefits of information on plaque composition available to the physician through use of our IVUS products, including the ability to identify calcified and other forms of plaque; • the actual and perceived ease of use of our IVUS products; • the quality of the images rendered by our IVUS products; • the cost, performance, benefits and reliability of our IVUS products relative to the products and services offered by our competitors; • the lack of perceived benefit of integration of our IVUS products into the cath lab; and • the extent and timing of technological advances. If IVUS technology generally, or our IVUS products specifically, do not gain wide market acceptance, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated growth, revenues or profitability and our results of operations would suffer. We have a limited operating history, have incurred significant operating losses since inception and cannot assure you that we will achieve profitability. We were formed in January 2000 and until 2003 were a development stage company substantially devoted to the research and development of tools designed to diagnose vulnerable plaque. In July 2003, we acquired substantially all of the assets related to the IVUS and FM product lines from Jomed, Inc. and commenced the 15 Table of Contents manufacturing, sale and distribution of IVUS and FM products. In December 2007, we acquired CardioSpectra, Inc., or CardioSpectra, an OCT technology company, in May 2008, we acquired Novelis, Inc., or Novelis, a Forward-Looking IVUS technology company, and in December 2008, we acquired Axsun, a manufacturer of laser and optical engines used in medical OCT imaging systems and advanced photonic components and subsystems used in other industrial applications. We have yet to demonstrate that we have sufficient revenues to become a sustainable, profitable business. Even if we do increase revenues, we expect our operating expenses will increase as we expand our business to meet anticipated growing demand for our products and as we devote resources to our sales, marketing and research and development activities. If we are unable to reduce our cost of revenues and our operating expenses, we may not achieve profitability. Although we achieved profitability during the quarters ended December 31, 2008 and September 30, 2008, you should not rely on our operating results for any prior quarterly or annual periods as an indication of our future operating performance. At December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $104.3 million. We expect to experience quarterly fluctuations in our revenues due to the timing of capital purchases by our customers and to a lesser degree the seasonality of disposable consumption by our customers and in our expenses as we make future investments in research and development, selling and marketing and general and administrative activities that will cause us to experience variability in our reported earnings and losses in future periods. Failure to achieve and sustain profitability would negatively impact the market price of our common stock. General national and worldwide economic conditions may materially and adversely affect our financial performance and results of operations. Our operations and performance depend significantly on national and worldwide economic conditions and the resulting impact on purchasing decisions and the level of spending on our products by customers in the geographic markets in which our IVUS and FM products are sold or distributed. These economic conditions have recently deteriorated significantly in many countries and regions, including without limitation the United States, and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. If our customers do not obtain or do not have access to the necessary capital to operate their businesses, or are otherwise adversely affected by the deterioration in national and worldwide economic conditions, this could result in reductions in the sales of our products, longer sales cycles and slower adoption of new technologies by our customers, which would materially and adversely affect our business. In addition, our customers’, distributors’ and suppliers’ liquidity, capital resources and credit may be adversely affected by the current financial and credit crisis, which could adversely affect our ability to collect on our outstanding invoices and lengthen our collection cycles, distribute our products or limit our timely access to important sources of raw materials necessary for the manufacture of our consoles and catheters. There can be no assurances that government responses to the disruptions in the financial or credit markets will improve the national and worldwide economic conditions in the near term or that the national and worldwide economic conditions will not worsen. Competition from companies that have longer operating histories and greater resources than us may harm our business. The medical device industry, including the market for IVUS and FM products, is highly competitive, subject to rapid technological change and significantly affected by new product introductions and market activities of other participants. As a result, even if the size of the IVUS and FM market increases, we can make no assurance that our revenues will increase. In addition, as the markets for medical devices, including IVUS and FM products, develop, additional competitors could enter the market. To compete effectively, we will need to continue to demonstrate that our products are attractive alternatives to other devices and treatments. We believe that our continued success depends on our ability to: • innovate and maintain scientifically advanced technology; • apply our technology across products and markets; • develop proprietary products; • successfully conduct or sponsor clinical studies that expand our markets; 16 Table of Contents • obtain and maintain patent protection for our products; • obtain and maintain regulatory clearance or approvals; • manufacture cost-effectively; • successfully market our products; and • attract and retain skilled personnel. With respect to our IVUS products, our biggest competitor is Boston Scientific. Our FM products compete with the products of St. Jude Medical, Inc. through its December 2008 acquisition of Radi Medical Systems AB, or Radi. Historically, as Radi was a privately-held company without any public reporting obligations, the actual size of the FM market was difficult to ascertain. We also compete in Japan with Terumo Corporation. Boston Scientific, St. Jude Medical, Inc., Terumo Corporation and other potential competitors who are substantially larger than us and may enjoy competitive advantages, including: • more established distribution networks; • entrenched relationships with physicians; • products and procedures that are less expensive; • broader ranges of products and services that may be sold in bundled arrangements; • greater experience in launching, marketing, distributing and selling products; • greater experience in obtaining and maintaining the FDA and other regulatory clearances and approvals; • established relationships with healthcare providers and payors; and • greater financial and other resources for product development, sales and marketing, acquisitions of products and companies, and intellectual property protection. For these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully against our current or potential future competitors, and sales of our IVUS and FM products may decline. Failure to innovate will adversely impact our competitive position and may adversely impact our product revenues. Our future success will depend upon our ability to innovate new products and introduce enhancements to our existing products in order to address the changing needs of the marketplace. Frequently, product development programs require assessments to be made of future clinical need and commercial feasibility, which are difficult to predict. Customers may forego purchases of our products and purchase our competitors’ products as a result of delays in introduction of our new products and enhancements, failure to choose correctly among technical alternatives or failure to offer innovative products or enhancements at competitive prices and in a timely manner. In addition, announcements of new products may result in a delay in or cancellation of purchasing decisions in anticipation of such new products. We may not have adequate resources to effectively compete in the marketplace. Any delays in product releases may negatively affect our business. We also compete with new and existing alternative technologies that are being used to penetrate the worldwide vascular imaging market without using IVUS technology. These products, procedures or solutions could prove to be more effective, faster, safer or less costly than our IVUS products. Technologies such as angiography, angioscopy, multi-slice computed tomography, intravascular magnetic resonance imaging, or MRI, electron beam computed tomography, and MRI with contrast agents are being used to image the vascular system. The introduction of new products, procedures or clinical solutions by competitors may result in price reductions, reduced margins, loss of market share and may render our products obsolete. We cannot guarantee that these alternative technologies will not be commercialized and become viable alternatives to IVUS in the future, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete successfully against them if they are commercialized. 17 Table of Contents Delays in planned product introductions may adversely affect our business and negatively impact future revenues. We are currently developing new products and product enhancements with respect to our IVUS and FM products. We are also developing OCT systems and catheters, FLIVUS systems and catheters and image-guided therapy products. We may experience delays in any phase of product development and commercial launch, including during research and development, manufacturing, limited release testing, marketing and customer education efforts. Any delays in our product launches may significantly impede our ability to successfully compete in the IVUS, FM, OCT, FLIVUS and image-guided therapy markets and may reduce our revenues. We and our present and future collaborators may fail to develop or effectively commercialize products covered by our present and future collaborations if: • we do not achieve our objectives under our collaboration agreements; • we or our collaborators are unable to obtain patent protection for the products or proprietary technologies we develop in our collaborations; • we are unable to manage multiple simultaneous product discovery and development collaborations; • our collaborators become competitors of ours or enter into agreements with our competitors; • we or our collaborators encounter regulatory hurdles that prevent commercialization of our products; and • we develop products and processes or enter into additional collaborations that conflict with the business objectives of our other collaborators. In addition, conflicts may arise with our collaborators, such as conflicts concerning the interpretation of clinical data, the achievement of milestones, the interpretation of financial provisions or the ownership of intellectual property developed during the collaboration. If any conflicts arise with our existing or future collaborators, they may act in their self-interest, which may be adverse to our best interest. If we or our collaborators are unable to develop or commercialize products, or if conflicts arise with our collaborators, we will be delayed or prevented from developing and commercializing products which will harm our business and financial results. We are dependent on our collaborations, and events involving these collaborations or any future collaborations could delay or prevent us from developing or commercializing products. The success of our current business strategy and our near- and long-term viability will depend on our ability to execute successfully on existing strategic collaborations and to establish new strategic collaborations. Collaborations allow us to leverage our resources and technologies and to access markets that are compatible with our own core areas of expertise. To penetrate our target markets, we may need to enter into additional collaborative agreements to assist in the development and commercialization of future products. Establishing strategic collaborations is difficult and time-consuming. Potential collaborators may reject collaborations based upon their assessment of our financial, regulatory or intellectual property position or our internal capabilities. Our discussions with potential collaborators may not lead to the establishment of new collaborations on favorable terms or at all. We have collaborations with Medtronic, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, GE, and Philips. In each collaboration, we combine our technology or core capabilities with that of the third party to either permit greater penetration into markets, as in the case of Medtronic, GE and Philips, or enhance the functionality of our current and planned products, as in the case of The Cleveland Clinic Foundation. 18 Table of Contents We have limited control over the amount and timing of resources that our current collaborators or any future collaborators devote to our collaborations or potential products. These collaborators may breach or terminate their agreements with us or otherwise fail to conduct their collaborative activities successfully and in a timely manner. Further, our collaborators may not develop or commercialize products that arise out of our collaborative arrangements or devote sufficient resources to the development, manufacture, marketing or sale of these products. Moreover, in the event of termination of a collaboration agreement, termination negotiations may result in less favorable terms. If the PROSPECT study is delayed or stopped, our ongoing and future business may be negatively affected because of the potential inability to obtain useful clinical data or increased costs and delays in completing the study. We sponsor PROSPECT, a natural history study of plaque, with Abbott Vascular, a division of Abbott Laboratories. Pursuant to the terms of our collaboration agreement with Abbott Vascular, either party may terminate the agreement without cause upon 60 days notice. Abbott Vascular, or if sponsorship of the study is transferred by Abbott Vascular, a new collaborator, may elect to delay or stop the PROSPECT study prematurely, causing a disruption in gathering clinical data related to vulnerable plaque or limiting the number of patients enrolled. If we choose to continue the study without a collaborator, we would have additional financial burdens. If we are unable to access the clinical data generated prior to termination, we may have to restart the study which would increase our financial burden and delay the timing of obtaining useful clinical data from the study. In the event that PROSPECT does not result in usable data and we are unable to prove a causal connection between vulnerable plaque and coronary events, the market for our vulnerable plaque products may not materialize. If we have to assume more of the financial burden of this clinical study, we would divert valuable financial and clinical resources from other areas of our business. If the clinical studies that we sponsor or co-sponsor are unsuccessful, or clinical data from studies conducted by other industry participants are negative, we may not be able to develop or increase penetration in identified markets and our business prospects may suffer. We sponsor or co-sponsor several clinical studies to demonstrate the benefits of our products in current markets where we are trying to increase use of our products and in new markets. Implementing a study is time consuming and expensive, and the outcome is uncertain. The completion of any of these studies may be delayed or halted for numerous reasons, including, but not limited to, the following: • the FDA institutional review boards or other regulatory authorities do not approve a clinical study protocol or place a clinical study on hold; • patients do not enroll in a clinical study or do not follow-up at the expected rate; • patients experience adverse side effects, including adverse side effects to our or a co-sponsor’s drug candidate or device; • patients die during a clinical study for a variety of reasons that may or may not be related to our products, including the advanced stage of their disease and medical problems; • third-party clinical investigators do not perform the clinical studies on the anticipated schedule or consistent with the clinical study protocol and good clinical practices, or other third-party organizations do not perform data collection and analysis in a timely or accurate manner; • our co-sponsors do not perform their obligations in relation to the clinical study or terminate the study; • regulatory inspections of manufacturing facilities, which may, among other things, require us or a co-sponsor to undertake corrective action or suspend the clinical studies; • changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions; and • the interim results of the clinical study are inconclusive or negative, and the study design, although approved and completed, is inadequate to demonstrate safety and efficacy. 19 Table of Contents Some of the studies that we co-sponsor are designed to study the efficacy of a third-party’s drug candidate or device. Such studies are designed and controlled by the third-party and the results of such studies will largely depend upon the success of the third-party’s drug candidate or device. These studies may be terminated before completion for reasons beyond our control such as adverse events associated with a third-party drug candidate or device. A failure in such a study may have an adverse impact on our business by either the attribution of the study’s failure to our technology or our inability to leverage publicity for proper functionality of our products as part of a failed study. Clinical studies may require the enrollment of large numbers of patients, and suitable patients may be difficult to identify and recruit. For example, the ADAPT-DES study has a projected enrollment of 11,000 patients, PROSPECT has enrolled 700 patients, BLAST is expected to enroll 220 patients and VOILA has a projected enrollment of 115 patients. Patient enrollment in clinical studies and completion of patient follow-up depend on many factors, including the size of the patient population, the study protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, eligibility criteria for the study and patient compliance. For example, patients may be discouraged from enrolling in our clinical studies if the applicable protocol requires them to undergo extensive post-treatment procedures or if they are persuaded to participate in different contemporaneous studies conducted by other parties. Delays in patient enrollment or failure of patients to continue to participate in a study may result in an increase in costs, delays or the failure of the study. Such events may have a negative impact on our business by making it difficult to penetrate or expand certain identified markets. Further, if we are forced to contribute greater financial and clinical resources to a study, valuable resources will be diverted from other areas of our business. Negative results from clinical studies conducted by other industry participants could harm our results. For example, recently the number of PCI procedures declined due to concerns attributed to late stent thrombosis and the long-term efficacy of drug-eluting stents. If the number of PCI procedures declines, the need for IVUS procedures could also decline and our business prospects may suffer. If we choose to acquire new businesses, products or technologies, we may experience difficulty in the identification or integration of any such acquisition, and our business may suffer. Our success depends on our ability to continually enhance and broaden our product offerings in response to changing customer demands, competitive pressures and technologies. Accordingly, we have pursued, and may in the future pursue, the acquisition of complementary businesses, products or technologies instead of developing them ourselves. For example, we acquired CardioSpectra in December 2007, Novelis in May 2008, and Axsun in December 2008. We do not know if we will be able to identify or complete any acquisitions, or whether we will be able to successfully integrate any acquired business, product or technology or retain key employees. Integrating any business, product or technology we acquire could be expensive and time consuming, disrupt our ongoing business and distract our management. If we are unable to integrate any acquired businesses, products or technologies effectively, our business will suffer. We have entered, and may in the future enter, markets through our acquisitions that we are not familiar with and have no experience managing. For example, Axsun historically sold devices in the industrial and telecommunications sectors for the optical monitoring market and we will continue to serve these markets. If we fail to integrate these operations into our business, our resources may be diverted from our core business and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business has become more decentralized geographically through our acquisitions and this may expose us to operating inefficiences across these diverse locations, including difficulties and unanticipated expenses related to the integration of departments, information technology systems, and accounting records and maintaining uniform standards, such as internal accounting controls, procedures and policies. In addition, we have, and in the future may increase, our exposure to risks related to business operations outside the United States due to our acquisitions. 20 Table of Contents We may also encounter risks, costs and expenses associated with any undisclosed or potential liabilities or use more cash and other financial resources on integration and implementation activities than we expect. In addition, any amortization or other charges resulting from acquisitions could harm our operating results. In connection with the Axsun acquisition, we and Axsun were sued by LightLab Imaging, Inc., or LightLab, for alleged breach of a development and supply agreement between Axsun and LightLab pursuant to which Axsun supplies tunable lasers to LightLab for use in LightLab’s OCT products. LightLab, a wholly owned subsidiary of Goodman, our distributor of IVUS and FM products in Japan, develops and sells OCT products for cardiovascular imaging and other medical uses. LightLab obtained a preliminary injunction against us and Axsun, that among other things, prohibits us from using Axsun tunable lasers in our OCT products. A hearing to reconsider the motion for preliminary injunction was held on March 6, 2009 and we are currently awaiting the judge’s ruling. While we believe the complaint is without merit and we opposed the preliminary injunction motion and intend to defend ourselves vigorously, the preliminary injunction has delayed our ability to fully utilize the employees and technology available through Axsun. Consequently, there is a risk that we will be delayed in realizing or may never realize all of the benefits from the Axsun acquisition that we anticipated when we acquired Axsun. If we are unable to identify the plaque that is most likely to rupture and cause a coronary event we may not be able to develop a market for our vulnerable plaque products or expand the market for existing products. We are utilizing substantial resources toward developing technologies to aid in the identification, diagnosis and treatment of the plaque that is most likely to rupture and cause a coronary event, or vulnerable plaque. To date, a connection between ruptured plaque and coronary events has been shown in post-mortem studies, hypothetical models and certain statistical analyses. However, no technology has been proven in clinical trials to identify, prior to the occurrence of a coronary event, the plaque that is most likely to rupture and cause such an event. If we are unable to develop products or technologies that can identify vulnerable plaque, a market for products to identify vulnerable plaque may not materialize and our business may suffer. Our manufacturing operations are dependent upon third party suppliers, which makes us vulnerable to supply problems, price fluctuations and manufacturing delays. We rely on ON Semiconductor Corporation, or OSC, for the supply of application specific integrated circuits, or ASICs, and for the supply of wafers used in the manufacture of our IVUS consoles and our catheters. These ASICs and wafers are critical to these products, and there are relatively few alternative sources of supply. OSC is shutting down their 5” wafer fabrication plant, or fab, and as a result we are moving our device to their 8” wafer fab. We have purchased additional 5” wafers to support production while we transition to the 8” wafer design. In addition, we do not carry a significant inventory of the ASICs. If we had to change suppliers, we expect that it would take at least a year, and possibly 18 months or longer, to identify an appropriate replacement supplier, complete design work and undertake the necessary inspections before the ASICs or wafers would be available. We rely on International Micro Industries, Inc., or IMI, to undertake additional processing of certain of the ASICs that are produced by OSC for use in the manufacture of our catheters. We do not carry a significant inventory of the circuits that are finished by IMI. We expect that in the event it is necessary to replace IMI, it would take at least three months, and possibly six months or longer, to identify an appropriate replacement supplier that is able to undertake the additional processing of the ASICs. We are not parties to supply agreements with either OSC or IMI but instead use purchase orders as needed. Our former supplier of FM wire pressure sensors ceased production of this key component on 4” wafers. In 2007, we secured an end-of-life purchase of the subject parts equivalent to an estimated four-year supply. We believe this will provide us with adequate time to initiate and qualify a replacement supplier or new design to replace the product. We expect that it will take approximately 24 months to identify an appropriate replacement supplier, complete design work and undertake the necessary inspections before the new pressure sensors will be available. 21 Table of Contents We also rely upon Endicott Interconnect Technologies, or EIT, for the assembly operation of the scanner used on the IVUS catheters. We do not carry a significant inventory of the scanner assemblies that are finished by EIT. We expect that in the event it is necessary to replace EIT for the assembly operation, it would take at least twelve months to identify and qualify an appropriate replacement supplier that is able to undertake the additional assembly operation. A Manufacturing Services Agreement is in place with EIT for the assembly of the scanner devices. In addition, we implemented a new automated system to replace certain customized equipment, which is no longer produced or supported by a third party for the manufacture of the scanners located on our phased array catheters. The new automated system is located at EIT’s facility and we are dependent on EIT for the day-to-day control and protection of the system. If the new automated system does not perform as expected, if we are not provided with the product as requested, or if we are not provided access to the system, we may encounter delays in the manufacture of our catheters and many not have sufficient inventory to meet our customers’ demands, which could negatively impact our revenues. Our reliance on these sole source suppliers subjects us to a number of risks that could impact our ability to manufacture our products and harm our business, including: • inability to obtain adequate supply in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms; • interruption or delayed delivery of supply resulting from difficulty in accessing financial or credit markets or otherwise secure cash and capital resources; • interruption of supply resulting from modifications to, or discontinuation of, a supplier’s operations; • delays in product shipments resulting from uncorrected defects, reliability issues or a supplier’s variation in a component; • uncorrected quality and reliability defects that impact performance, efficacy and safety of products from replacement suppliers; • price fluctuations due to a lack of long-term supply arrangements for key components with our suppliers; • difficulty identifying and qualifying alternative suppliers for components in a timely manner; • production delays related to the evaluation and testing of products from alternative suppliers and corresponding regulatory qualifications; and • delays in delivery by our suppliers due to changes in demand from us or their other customers. Any significant delay or interruption in the supply of components or materials, or our inability to obtain substitute components or materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices and in a timely manner, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers and harm our business. Identifying and qualifying additional or replacement suppliers for any of the components or materials used in our products may not be accomplished quickly or at all and could involve significant additional costs. Any supply interruption from our suppliers or failure to obtain additional suppliers for any of the components or materials used to manufacture our products would limit our ability to manufacture our products and could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We manufacture our IVUS catheters and have implemented a new manufacturing process, making us vulnerable to production and supply problems that could negatively impact our revenues. Until recently, we had used customized equipment which is no longer produced or supported by a third party for the manufacture of the scanners located on our phased array catheters. This equipment was supported by the company that designed and manufactured it until 2002. That company ceased operations in 2002, because changes in manufacturing technology made the design and manufacture of similar equipment more mainstream and automated and made customized manufacturing equipment, such as ours, much less economical to build and 22 Table of Contents support. If the equipment malfunctioned and we were unable to locate spare parts or hire qualified personnel to repair the equipment, we could have encountered delays in the manufacture of our catheters and may not have had sufficient inventory to meet our customers’ demands, which would have negatively impacted our revenues. In response to this situation, we implemented a new automated system to replace the customized equipment, which is no longer produced or supported by a third party. While we believe the new automated system, located at a third party vendor, has demonstrated the ability to meet our anticipated volumes, the system will continue to be located at the vendor’s facility, which requires us to be dependent on them for the day-to-day control and protection of the system. If the new automated system does not perform as expected, if the vendor does not provide us with product as requested, or if the vendor does not allow us to have access to the system, we may encounter delays in the manufacture of our catheters and may not have sufficient inventory to meet our customers’ demands, which could negatively impact our revenues. If we do not manage our manufacturing capacity effectively, or if our facilities are damaged or destroyed, we may experience delays that could negative impact our revenues. It is likely that we will need to expand our manufacturing capacity in the first half of 2010. We expect that any expansion would be achieved through modified space utilization in our current leased facilities, improved efficiencies, automation and acquisition of additional tooling and equipment. If we experience a demand in our products that exceeds our manufacturing capacity, we may not have sufficient inventory to meet our customers’ demands, which would negatively impact our revenues. Our facilities may be affected by natural or man-made disasters. If one of our facilities were affected by a disaster, we would be forced to rely on third party manufacturers or shift production to another manufacturing facility. In such an event, we would face significant delays in manufacturing which would prevent us from being able to sell our products. In addition, our insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of the potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. We may require significant additional capital to pursue our growth strategy, and our failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from executing our growth strategy. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and short-term available-for-sale investments will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next twelve months. However, we may need to obtain additional financing to pursue our business strategy, to respond to new competitive pressures or to act on opportunities to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, products or technologies. The timing and amount of our working capital and capital expenditure requirements may vary significantly depending on numerous factors, including: • market acceptance of our products; • the revenues generated by our products; • the need to adapt to changing technologies and technical requirements, and the costs related thereto; • the costs associated with expanding our manufacturing, marketing, sales and distribution efforts; and • the existence and timing of opportunities for expansion, including acquisitions and strategic transactions. If our capital resources are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or to obtain debt financing. The sale of additional equity or debt securities, or the use of our stock in an acquisition or strategic transaction, would result in additional dilution to our stockholders. Additional debt would result in increased expenses and could result in covenants that would restrict our operations. Our significant losses to date and the current national and global financial crisis may prevent us from 23 Table of Contents obtaining additional funds on favorable terms, if at all. We have not made arrangements to obtain additional financing, and there is no assurance that financing, if required, will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. The risks inherent in our international operations may adversely impact our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. We derive, and anticipate we will continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from operations in Japan and Europe. In the year ended December 31, 2008, revenues to customers located in Japan and Europe were $43.6 million and $33.2 million, representing 25.4% and 19.4%, respectively, of our total revenues. As we expand internationally, we will need to hire, train and retain qualified personnel for our direct sales efforts, retain distributors and train their personnel in countries where language, cultural or regulatory impediments may exist. We cannot ensure that distributors, physicians, regulators or other government agencies will accept our products, services and business practices. In addition, we purchase some components on the international market. The sale and shipment of our products and services across international borders, as well as the purchase of components from international sources, subject us to extensive United States and foreign governmental trade regulations. Compliance with such regulations is costly. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could impact us in a variety of ways that include, but are not limited to, significant criminal, civil and administrative penalties, including imprisonment of individuals, fines and penalties, denial of export privileges, seizure of shipments and restrictions on certain business activities. Failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could result in the disruption of our shipping and sales activities. Our international sales operations expose us and our representatives, agents and distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions, including: • our ability to obtain, and the costs associated with obtaining, United States export licenses and other required export or import licenses or approvals; • operating under government-run healthcare systems and changes in third-party reimbursement policies; • changes in duties and tariffs, taxes, trade restrictions, license obligations and other non-tariff barriers to trade; • burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations related to healthcare products; • costs of localizing product and service offerings for foreign markets; • business practices favoring local companies; • longer payment cycles and difficulties collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; • difficulties in enforcing or defending agreements and intellectual property rights; and • changes in foreign political or economic conditions. We cannot ensure that one or more of these factors will not harm our business. Any material decrease in our international revenues or inability to expand our international operations would adversely impact our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could result in declines in our reported revenues and earnings. Our reported revenues and earnings are subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We do not engage in foreign currency hedging arrangements, and, consequently, foreign currency fluctuations may adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Should we choose to engage in hedging activities in the future we cannot be assured our hedges will be effective or that the costs of the hedges will not exceed their benefits. Fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies, primarily the Euro and the Yen, could adversely affect our financial results. During the year ended December 31, 2008, 19.4% of our revenues were denominated in the Euro, 10.7% of our operating expenses were denominated in the Euro and 4.5% of our operating expenses 24 Table of Contents were denominated in Yen. Revenues from our Japanese operations are denominated in the U.S. Dollar. In addition, revenues were positively impacted by the valuation of foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, versus the U.S. dollar, particularly during the first three quarters of fiscal 2008. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the U.S. dollar strenghthened versus the Euro. In periods of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our results of operations including the amount of revenue that we report in future periods could be negatively impacted. Future interest income and the value of our investments may be impacted by further declines in interest rates and the broader effect of the recent disruption of credit markets. We are conservative in our investment policies and our policies allow us to invest our excess cash primarily in corporate notes, money market funds and United States municipal debt securities. As of December 31, 2008, we have invested our excess cash in money market funds and corporate debt securities issued by banks and corporations. The interest paid on these types of investments and the value of certain securities may decline in the future as credit markets adjust to the national and global financial crisis. While our investment portfolio has not yet been adversely impacted, if there is continued and expanded disruption in the credit markets, our investment portfolio could be adversely affected in the future. To market and sell our products, we depend on third-party distributors, and they may not be successful. A portion of our revenue is generated by our third-party distributors. If these distributors cease or limit operations or experience a disruption of their business operations, or are not successful in selling our products, we may be unable to increase or maintain our level of revenues. Over the long term, we intend to grow our business internationally, and to do so we will need to attract additional distributors to expand the territories in which we do not directly sell our products. Our distributors may not commit the necessary resources to market and sell our products. If current or future distributors do not continue to distribute our products or do not perform adequately or if we are unable to locate distributors in particular geographic areas, we may not realize revenue growth internationally. A significant portion of our annual revenues is derived from sales to our Japanese distributors, primarily Fukuda, Goodman, and Johnson & Johnson. In the year ended December 31, 2008, we generated revenues of $41.7 million, which accounted for approximately 24.3% of our revenues, from sales to our Japanese distributors. In the year ended December 31, 2008, Goodman accounted for 14.4% of our revenues. On May 19, 2008, we and Goodman mutually terminated the Exclusive Distribution Agreement, dated September 27, 2004, pursuant to which Goodman distributed our rotational IVUS products in Japan on an exclusive basis. Additionally, on May 19, 2008, the oral agreement between us and Goodman, relating to the exclusive distribution of our FM products in Japan, originally distributed by Goodman under the International Distributor Agreement, dated September 17, 1994, by and among the Company, Goodman and Kaneko Enterprise, Inc., as amended, and any other oral agreements between the Company and Goodman relating to the distribution of our products in Japan, was terminated. We did not pay and we are not obligated to pay a fee in connection with this termination. On June 30, 2008, Goodman transferred to us all SHONINs for all rotational IVUS and FM products held by Goodman or its affiliates. Although Goodman currently continues to distribute our rotational IVUS and FM products in Japan on a non-exclusive, purchase order basis, there is no assurance that they will continue to do so in the future. Upon termination of our agreements with Goodman, we monitor the credit risk associated with Goodman as well as other general economic conditions and, accordingly, we have made and continue to make adjustments to the credit terms that are extended to Goodman. In connection with the Axsun acquisition, we and Axsun were sued by LightLab, for alleged breach of a development and supply agreement between Axsun and LightLab pursuant to which Axsun supplies tunable lasers to LightLab for use in LightLab’s OCT products. LightLab, a wholly owned subsidiary of Goodman, develops and sells OCT products for cardiovascular imaging and other medical uses. We entered into an agreement with Fukuda Denshi in March 2006 that extended our commercial relationship through June 2012. This agreement became effective upon the transfer of the related regulatory 25 Table of Contents approvals held by Fukuda Denshi, which took place on June 1, 2006. We also entered into a distribution agreement with Johnson and Johnson in December 2006. A significant change in our relationship with our distributors, such as the recent changes in our relationship with Goodman, or in the relationships between our distributors may have a negative impact on our ability to sustain and grow our business in Japan. We also use distributors in certain other international markets. Other than Japan, no one market in which we use distributors represents a significant portion of our revenues but, in the aggregate, problems with these distribution arrangements could negatively affect our international sales strategy, negatively impact our revenues and the market price of our stock. If we become profitable and there is an ownership change, we cannot assure you that our net operating losses will be available to reduce our tax liability. Our ability to use our net operating losses to reduce future income tax obligations may be limited or reduced. Generally, a change of more than 50 percentage points in the ownership of our shares, by value, over the three-year period ending on the date the shares were acquired constitutes an ownership change and may limit our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards. Should an ownership change occur in the future, our ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards could be limited. If we fail to properly manage our anticipated growth, our business could suffer. Rapid growth of our business is likely to place a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources and systems. To execute our anticipated growth successfully, we must attract and retain qualified personnel and manage and train them effectively. In addition, we anticipate hiring additional personnel to assist in the commercialization of our current products and in the development of future products. We will be dependent on our personnel and third parties to effectively market and sell our products to an increasing number of customers. We will also depend on our personnel to develop and manufacture new products and product enhancements. Further, our anticipated growth will place additional strain on our suppliers resulting in increased need for us to carefully monitor for quality assurance. Any failure by us to manage our growth effectively could have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve our development and commercialization goals. If we are unable to recruit, hire and retain skilled and experienced personnel, our ability to effectively manage and expand our business will be harmed. Our success largely depends on the skills, experience and efforts of our officers and other key employees who may terminate their employment at any time. The loss of any of our senior management team, in particular our President and Chief Executive Officer, R. Scott Huennekens, could harm our business. We have entered into employment contracts with R. Scott Huennekens, our Chief Financial Officer, John T. Dahldorf, and our Executive Vice President, Global Sales, Jorge J. Quinoy, but these agreements do not guarantee that they will remain employed by us in the future. The announcement of the loss of one of our key employees could negatively affect our stock price. Our ability to retain our skilled workforce and our success in attracting and hiring new skilled employees will be a critical factor in determining whether we will be successful in the future. We face challenges in hiring, training, managing and retaining employees in certain areas including clinical, technical, sales and marketing. This could delay new product development and commercialization, and hinder our marketing and sales efforts, which would adversely impact our competitiveness and financial results. The expense and potential unavailability of insurance coverage for our company, customers or products may have an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. While we currently have insurance for our business, property, directors and officers, and products, insurance is increasingly costly and the scope of coverage is narrower, and we may be required to assume more risk in the future. If we are subject to claims or suffer a loss or damage in excess of our insurance coverage, we will be 26 Table of Contents required to cover the amounts in excess of our insurance limits. If we are subject to claims or suffer a loss or damage that is outside of our insurance coverage, we may incur significant costs associated with loss or damage that could have an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Furthermore, any claims made on our insurance policies may impact our ability to obtain or maintain insurance coverage at reasonable costs or at all. We do not have the financial resources to self-insure, and it is unlikely that we will have these financial resources in the foreseeable future. We have product liability insurance that covers our products and business operation, but we may need to increase and expand this coverage commensurate with our expanding business. Any product liability claims brought against us, with or without merit, could result in: • substantial costs of related litigation or regulatory action; • substantial monetary penalties or awards; • decreased demand for our products; • reduced revenue or market penetration; • injury to our reputation; • withdrawal of clinical study participants; • an inability to establish new strategic relationships; • increased product liability insurance rates; and • prevention of securing continuing coverage. Some of our customers and prospective customers may have difficulty in procuring or maintaining liability insurance to cover their operation and use of our products. Medical malpractice carriers are withdrawing coverage in certain regions or substantially increasing premiums. If this trend continues or worsens, our customers may discontinue using our products and potential customers may opt against purchasing our products due to the cost or inability to procure insurance coverage. Risks Related to Government Regulation If we fail to obtain, or experience significant delays in obtaining, regulatory clearances or approvals for our products or product enhancements, our ability to commercially distribute and market our products could suffer. Our products are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and numerous other Federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. Our failure to comply with such regulations could lead to the imposition of injunctions, suspensions or loss of regulatory clearances or approvals, product recalls, termination of distribution, product seizures or civil penalties. In the most egregious cases, criminal sanctions or closure of our manufacturing facilities are possible. The process of obtaining regulatory authorizations to market a medical device, particularly from the FDA, can be costly and time consuming, and there can be no assurance that such authorizations will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. In particular, the FDA permits commercial distribution of a new medical device only after the device has received 510(k) clearance or is the subject of an approved pre-market approval, or PMA, application. The FDA will clear marketing of a medical device through the 510(k) process if it is demonstrated that the new product is substantially equivalent to one or more 510(k)-cleared products. The PMA approval process is more costly, lengthy and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process. Introduction to the market of products we develop that require regulatory clearance or approval may be delayed if clearance or approval is not received within the timeframe expected. If regulatory clearance or approvals are received, additional delays may occur related to manufacturing, distribution, or product labeling. In addition, because we cannot assure you that any new products or any product enhancements we develop will be subject to the shorter 27 Table of Contents 510(k) clearance process as opposed to the PMA process, in which case new products or enhancements may take significantly longer to bring to market, if at all. To date, all of our products have been cleared through the 510(k) process. We have no experience in obtaining PMA approvals. In the member states of the European Union there is a consolidated system for the authorization of medical devices. The system of regulating medical devices operates by way of a certification for each medical device. Each certificated device is marked with a CE mark which shows that the device has a Certificat de Conformité. There are national bodies, known as Competent Authorities, in each member state that oversee the implementation of the European Union Medical Device Directive within their jurisdiction. The means for achieving the requirements for a CE mark vary according to the nature of the device. Under the requirements of European Union member states, our products are required to be assessed by a Notified Body. If a Notified Body of one member state has issued a Certificat de Conformité, the device can be sold throughout the European Union without further conformance tests being required in other member states. Our products, including their design and manufacture, have been certified by the British Standards Institute, or BSI, in the United Kingdom as being compliant with the requirements of European Union law. Consequently, we are entitled to affix a CE mark to our products and their packaging and this gives us the right to sell them in Europe. Foreign governmental authorities that regulate the manufacture and sale of medical devices have become increasingly stringent, and to the extent we continue to market and sell our products in foreign countries, we will be subject to rigorous regulation in the future. In such circumstances, we would rely significantly on our distributors to comply with the varying regulations, and any failures on their part could result in restrictions on the sale of our products in foreign countries. We have conducted, but are not currently conducting, clinical studies with some of our products under an investigational device exemption. Clinical studies must be conducted in compliance with regulations of the FDA and those of regulatory agencies in other countries in which we conduct clinical studies. The data collected from these clinical studies are intended to be used to support a submission to obtain marketing clearance for these products. There is no assurance that United States or foreign regulatory bodies will accept the data from these clinical studies or that they will ultimately allow market clearance or approval for these products, or that the data would be adequate to support a PMA for these products if such a submission were to be required. Regulatory delays or failures to obtain clearances and approvals could disrupt our business, harm our reputation and adversely affect our sales. Modifications to our products may require new regulatory clearances or approvals or may require us to recall or cease marketing our products until clearances are obtained. Modifications to our products may require new 510(k) notifications, PMA applications, or other regulatory agency approval applications. If there is a safety concern, it may require us to recall or cease marketing the devices and cause us to modify the devices. In addition, if the modified devices have been distributed without a new 510(k) clearance or PMA approval, we may be required to recall or cease marketing the devices. The FDA requires device manufacturers to initially make and document a determination of whether or not a modification requires a new approval, supplement or clearance, or does not require any marketing submission. A marketing submission is not required for a modification that a manufacturer determines does not significantly affect safety or efficacy and does not represent a major change in its intended use. However, the FDA can review a manufacturer’s decision and may disagree. The FDA may also on its own initiative determine that a new 510(k) notification or PMA application is required. We have made modifications to our products in the past and may make additional modifications in the future that we believe do not or will not require a new 510(k) notification or PMA application. If the FDA disagrees and requires a new 510(k) notification or PMA application for the modifications, we may be required to recall and to stop marketing our products as modified if we have already begun marketing them, which could require us to redesign our products and harm our operating results. The FDA has the authority to bring an enforcement action when a device is marketed without required clearance or 28 Table of Contents approval, including injunction, seizure and, in egregious circumstances, criminal prosecution. The FDA considers such additional actions generally when there is a serious risk to public health or safety and recall of the product from the market does not adequately mitigate the risk. If a manufacturer determines that a modification to an FDA-cleared device could significantly affect its safety or efficacy, or would constitute a major change in its intended use, then the manufacturer must file a new 510(k) notification or, if applicable, a PMA application. Where we determine that modifications to our products require a new 510(k) notification or PMA application, we may not be able to obtain those additional clearances or approvals for the modifications or additional indications in a timely manner, or at all. For those products sold in the European Union, we must notify BSI, our European Union Notified Body, if significant changes are made to the products or if there are substantial changes to our quality assurance systems affecting those products. Delays in obtaining required future clearances or approvals would adversely affect our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, which in turn would harm our future growth. If we fail to adequately manage our regulatory responsibilities following the Japanese regulatory approvals, our ability to sell our IVUS products in Japan would be impaired. We currently market our IVUS products in Japan under two types of regulatory approval known as a SHONIN and a NINSHO. SHONINs for medical devices are issued by Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, or MHLW, to a Marketing Authorization Holder, or MAH, who thereafter holds the SHONINs for, or possesses regulatory approval permitting the import of such devices into Japan. NINSHOs for medical devices are issued by MHLW-approved third-party agencies such as BSI-Japan. Under the third-party program, only certain devices are authorized to be reviewed and approved in this manner. Our IVUS imaging consoles fall within this category. We have elected to participate in this program and have received approval for the s5i. The SHONINs for our IVUS products were previously held by Fukuda Denshi, the MAH for our IVUS products, who acted as our importer. Fukuda Denshi is one of our Japanese distributors and has been responsible for our regulatory compliance in Japan. Until June 1, 2006, we did not have the authority to import or sell our IVUS products directly in Japan, and we were dependent on Fukuda Denshi to do so. The SHONINs for our rotational IVUS and FM products were previously held by Goodman, the MAH for our rotational IVUS and FM products, who acted as our importer, is one of our Japanese distributors and has been responsible for our regulatory compliance in Japan. Until June 30, 2008, we did not have the authority to import or sell our rotational IVUS and FM products directly in Japan, and we were dependent on Goodman to do so. Fukuda Denshi transferred the SHONINs for our phased-array IVUS products to us on June 1, 2006. Goodman transferred the SHONINs for our rotational IVUS and FM products to us on June 30, 2008. Due to the transfer of the SHONINs, responsibility for Japanese regulatory filings and future compliance resides with us. There is a risk that the transfer of the SHONINs and regulatory responsibility will lead to disruption or lack of coordination in our ongoing compliance activities in Japan. As the holder of the SHONINs, we have the authority to import and sell those phased-array and rotational IVUS and FM products for which we have the SHONINs as well as those products for which we have obtained a NINSHO, but are subject to greater scrutiny. As such, we have to dedicate greater internal resources to direct regulatory compliance in Japan. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to adequately meet the increased regulatory responsibilities. Non-compliance with Japanese regulations may result in action to prohibit further importation and sale of our products in Japan, a significant market for our products. If we are unable to sell our phased-array and rotational IVUS and FM products in Japan, we will lose a significant part of our annual revenues, and our business will be substantially impacted. Changes in the Japanese regulatory requirements for medical devices could impact our ability to market our products in Japan and subject us to fines, penalties or other sanctions. In April 2005, Japan changed the law regarding medical device approvals to require that SHONINs include additional information beyond what had been required in the past, including information about manufacturing processes, shipping and other raw materials used. Companies are not required by the revised law to withdraw 29 Table of Contents their existing SHONINs, and the revised law states that SHONINs approved under the prior law will still be considered valid. However, importers marketing products in Japan must update their SHONINs on a five-year cycle, and the updates are expected to include the additional information required by the revised law. These new regulations increase the regulatory and quality assurance requirements for both our manufacturing facilities and our efforts in obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals in Japan. While parts of the new regulations are still being defined, we expect that the new regulations may result in higher costs and delays in securing approval to market our products in Japan. We expect to file new SHONIN applications for our IVUS catheters sometime between 2009 and 2010, although we are not required under the Japanese regulatory laws to do so until 2010. We may decide to file such new SHONIN applications at a time that is deemed advantageous. This new filing will comply with the new law which encompasses design, manufacturing, shipping and quality processes. In connection with the new law, the Japanese government has prepared new guidance documents, including one document that addresses raw materials that along with the new law, greatly expand the required content of the product approval application from the prior law. With the existing SHONINs, we relied on Fukuda Denshi’s regulatory expertise that the product approval applications appropriately reflected our devices and therefore were in compliance with the law at the time as well as its assessment regarding continuing compliance with the law over the years. We are now the MAH for our phased-array and rotational IVUS and FM products and have full responsibility for their continued legal compliance in Japan. We cannot guarantee that the Japanese regulatory authorities will not take a different view of compliance with the existing SHONINs and conclude that because the new laws require inclusion of new information, we must cease marketing or even recall our phased-array and rotational IVUS and FM catheters until we have updated, and received approval of, our SHONIN to include the additional information required by the new law. Alternatively, the Japanese regulatory authorities could disagree with our distributor’s past conclusions and determine that we should have disclosed this information in the earlier SHONINs that were filed under prior law, and they could require us to cease marketing, recall the product or impose other regulatory penalties. In the event that the Japanese regulatory authorities come to such a conclusion and take corrective action, our business will suffer from lost revenue, lost reputation and lost market share. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation or ISO Quality Management Systems, manufacturing of our products could be negatively impacted and sales of our products could suffer. Our manufacturing practices are required to comply with the FDA’s 21 CFR Part 820 Quality System Regulation, or QSR, which governs the facilities, methods, controls, procedures, and records of the design, manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, shipping, installation, and servicing of our products intended for human use. We are also subject to similar state and foreign requirements and licenses, including the Medical Device Directive—93/42/EEC and the ISO 13485 Quality Management Systems, or QMS, standard applicable to medical devices. In addition, we must engage in regulatory reporting in the case of potential patient safety risks and must make available our manufacturing facilities, procedures, and records for periodic inspections and audits by governmental agencies, including the FDA, state authorities and comparable foreign agencies. If we fail to comply with the QSR, QMS, or other regulations and standards, our operations could be disrupted and our manufacturing interrupted. Failure to take adequate corrective action in response to inspectional observations or any notice of deficiencies from a regulatory inspection or audit could result in, among other things, a shut-down of our manufacturing operations, significant fines, suspension of marketing clearances and approvals, seizures or recalls of our devices, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which would cause our business to suffer. Furthermore, our key component suppliers may not currently be or may not continue to be in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements, which may result in manufacturing delays for our products and cause our revenue to decline. 30 Table of Contents We were inspected by the FDA in 2004 and in 2006. The 2004 inspection resulted in two inspectional observations on Form FDA 483. The 2006 inspection resulted in three inspectional observations on Form FDA 483. We have responded to these observations and believe that we have adequately completed all necessary evaluation of, and implementation of adjustments to, the affected processes. The FDA has acknowledged our responses to the audits and has indicated that the corrective actions should adequately address the inspectional observations. We are due for another FDA inspection. We are not aware of, nor have we received notice of, any pending investigation. The FDA has the right to make unannounced inspections of our manufacturing facility. We were audited by the European Union Notified Body in December 2005, February 2007, June 2007, October 2007, and June 2008. No major nonconformities were reported in the December 2005, February 2007, October 2007, and June 2008 audits. As a result of the audit in June 2007, one major nonconformity was identified. A corrective action plan was submitted to, and accepted by, the European Union Notified Body. As a result, continued ISO 13485:2003 certification was granted. The certification was subject to biannual assessments until April 2008 to reassess the corrective actions. After the June 2008 audit, which resulted in no major nonconformities and nine minor nonconformities, the European Union Notified Body agreed to switch from biannual to annual audits. The European Union Notified Body has the right to make unannounced audits of our manufacturing facility. We believe that we have taken sufficient corrective actions to address the observations and non-conformities noted by the FDA and the European Union Notified Body, but there can be no assurance that our actions will satisfy the FDA, the European Union Notified Body, or other regulatory agencies. These regulatory agencies may impose additional inspections or audits at any time which may conclude that our quality system is noncompliant with applicable regulations and standards. Such findings could potentially disrupt our business, harm our reputation and adversely affect our sales. Our products may in the future be subject to product recalls or voluntary market withdrawals that could harm our reputation, business and financial results. The FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities have the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture that could affect patient safety. In the case of the FDA, the authority to require a recall must be based on an FDA finding that there is a reasonable probability that the device would cause serious adverse health consequences or death. In addition, foreign governmental bodies have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. Manufacturers may, under their own initiative, recall a product if any material deficiency in a device is found. A government-mandated recall or voluntary recall by us or one of our distributors could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects or other issues. Recalls, which include corrections as well as removals, of any of our products would divert managerial and financial resources and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, harm our reputation with customers, reduce our ability to achieve expected revenues, and negatively affect our stock price. If our products, or malfunction of our products, cause or contribute to death or serious injury, we will be subject to medical device reporting regulations, which can result in voluntary corrective actions or agency enforcement actions. Under the FDA medical device reporting regulations, medical device manufacturers are required to report to the FDA information that a device has or may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or has or may have a malfunction that would likely cause or contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. All manufacturers placing medical devices on the market in the European Union are legally bound to report any serious or potentially serious incidents involving devices they produce or sell to the Competent Authority in whose jurisdiction the incident occurred. Were this to happen to us, the relevant Competent Authority would file an initial report, and there would then be a further inspection or assessment if there are particular issues. This would be carried out either by the Competent Authority or it could require that the BSI, as the Notified Body, carry out the inspection or assessment. 31 Table of Contents Malfunction of our products could result in future voluntary corrective actions, such as recalls or customer notifications, or agency action, such as inspection or enforcement action. Such malfunctions have been reported to us in the past. No injury to patients resulted from any of these incidents, but we can make no assurance that any future incident would not result in harm to patients. Upon learning of the malfunctions, we have taken all actions required by law and notified the appropriate regulatory authorities, including the FDA. While we investigated each of the incidents and believe we have taken the necessary corrective actions, we cannot guarantee that malfunctions will not occur in the future. If they do occur, we may elect to take voluntary corrective action, and we may be subject to involuntary corrective action such as notification, fines, seizures or recalls. If someone is harmed by a malfunction or by product mishandling, we may be subject to product liability claims. Any corrective action, whether voluntary or involuntary, as well as defending ourselves in a lawsuit, will require the dedication of our time and capital, distract management from operating our business, and may harm our reputation and financial results. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in additional foreign jurisdictions will prevent us from expanding the commercialization of our products abroad. We intend to market our products in a number of international markets. Although certain of our IVUS products have been approved for commercialization in Japan and in the European Union, in order to market our products in other foreign jurisdictions, we have had to, and will need to in the future, obtain separate regulatory approvals. The approval procedure varies among jurisdictions and can involve substantial additional testing. Approval or clearance of a device by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure marketing authorization by regulatory authorities in other foreign jurisdictions or by the FDA. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval in addition to other risks. In addition, the time required to obtain foreign approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval, and we may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any foreign market other than in the European Union and Japan. We may be subject to Federal, state and foreign healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations and other regulatory reforms, and a finding of failure to comply with such laws, regulations and reforms could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our operations may be directly or indirectly affected by various broad Federal, state or foreign healthcare fraud and abuse laws. These include the Federal anti-kickback statute, which prohibits any person from knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration, directly or indirectly, in return for or to induce the referring, ordering, leasing, purchasing or arranging for or recommending the ordering, purchasing or leasing of an item or service, for which payment may be made under Federal healthcare programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The Federal anti-kickback statute, a felony statute, is very broad in scope, and many of its provisions have not been uniformly or definitively interpreted by existing case law or regulations. In addition, many states have adopted laws similar to the Federal anti-kickback statute, and some of these laws are broader than that statute in that their prohibitions are not limited to items or services paid for by a Federal healthcare program but, instead, apply regardless of the source of payment. Some states also have enacted laws that restrict our marketing activities with physicians, and require us to report consulting and other payments to physicians. Finally, many foreign jurisdictions have anti-bribery provisions and other restrictions on interactions with physicians and other healthcare providers. These vary by country. Our financial relationships with healthcare providers and others who provide products or services to Federal healthcare program beneficiaries or are in a position directly or indirectly to recommend or arrange for use of our products are potentially governed by the Federal anti-kickback statute and similar state laws, as well as laws in foreign jurisdictions. If our past or present operations, including our consulting arrangements with physicians who use our products, are found to be in violation of these laws, we or our officers may be subject to civil or 32 Table of Contents criminal penalties, including large monetary penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment and exclusion from Medicare and Medicaid program participation. In connection with their services, some physicians serve as consultants and have in the past been awarded options to purchase our common stock. As of December 31, 2008, 90,906 shares of common stock have been purchased in connection with the exercise of these options and options to purchase 27,272 shares of common stock remain outstanding, vested and exercisable. Additionally, some physicians are paid consulting fees or reimbursed for expenses. In October 2008, we received a letter from Senator Charles E. Grassley, ranking member of the United States Senate Committee on Finance and Senator Herb Kohl, Chairman, United States Senate Special Committee on Aging, requesting information regarding payments made to the Cardiovascular Research Foundation, Columbia University and certain affiliated physicians. Additionally, the letter requests information regarding the COURAGE trial. We are cooperating with the request. While we believe that the pending inquiry is not likely to have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition, similar investigations by other state agencies or governmental agencies are possible and we cannot assure that the costs of defending or resolving those investigations or proceedings would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If enforcement action were to occur, our business and financial condition would be harmed. In addition, Federal and state authorities and private whistleblower plaintiffs recently have brought actions against manufacturers alleging that the manufacturers’ activities constituted aiding and abetting healthcare providers in the submission of false claims, alleging that the manufacturers themselves made false or misleading statements to the Federal government, or alleging that the manufacturers improperly promoted their products for “off-label” uses not approved by the FDA. Such investigations or litigation could be time-consuming and costly to us and could divert management’s attention from operating our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, if our activities were found to violate Federal or state false claims provisions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We do not believe that we are now subject to state or Federal physician self-referral laws, but changes in Federal or state legislation or regulatory interpretations could occur. Federal physician self-referral legislation (commonly known as the “Stark Law”) prohibits, subject to certain exceptions, physician referrals of Medicare and Medicaid patients to an entity providing certain “designated health services” if the physician or an immediate family member has any financial relationship with the entity. The Stark Law also prohibits the entity receiving the referral from billing any good or service furnished pursuant to an unlawful referral, and any person collecting any amounts in connection with an unlawful referral is obligated to refund such amounts. A person who engages in a scheme to circumvent the Stark Law’s referral prohibition may be fined up to $100,000 for each such arrangement or scheme. The penalties for violating the Stark Law also include civil monetary penalties of up to $15,000 per referral and possible exclusion from Federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Various states have corollary laws to the Stark Law, including laws that require physicians to disclose any financial interest they may have with a healthcare provider to their patients when referring patients to that provider. Both the scope of and exceptions to such laws vary from state to state. Finally, pending Federal legislation introduced by Senators Grassley and Kohl, if passed, would require us to report and disclose a broad range of payments to physicians. We could also be subject to investigation and enforcement activity under Title II of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, which created two new Federal crimes. A healthcare fraud statute prohibits knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private payors. A false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing, or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. A violation of these statutes is a felony and could result in fines, imprisonment or exclusion from government-sponsored programs. Additionally, HIPAA granted expanded enforcement authority to the Department of Health and Human Services and the United States Department of Justice and provided enhanced resources to support investigative and enforcement activities by governmental entities regarding fraud and abuse violations relating to healthcare delivery and payment. 33 Table of Contents In the United States, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could impact our ability to sell our products profitably. Federal and state lawmakers regularly propose and, at times, enact new legislation establishing significant changes in the healthcare system, particularly following changes in presidential administrations and senior government officials. We cannot predict whether new Federal legislation will be enacted in the future or the full impact that any such new legislation will have on our business. The potential for adoption of healthcare reform proposals on a state-by-state basis could require us to develop state-specific marketing and sales approaches. In addition, we may experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of our products due to additional legislative proposals or healthcare reform initiatives. Our results of operations and our business could be adversely affected by future healthcare reforms. In the European Union, legislation on inducements offered to physicians and other healthcare workers or hospitals differ from country to country. Breach of the laws relating to such inducements may expose us to the imposition of criminal sanctions. It may also harm our reputation, which could in turn affect sales. If our customers are unable to obtain coverage of or sufficient reimbursement for procedures performed with our products, it is unlikely that our products will be widely used. Successful sales of our products will depend on the availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors. Healthcare providers that purchase medical devices for treatment of their patients generally rely on third-party payors to reimburse all or part of the costs and fees associated with the procedures performed with these devices. Both public and private insurance coverage and reimbursement plans are central to new product acceptance. Customers are unlikely to use our products if they do not receive reimbursement adequate to cover the cost of our products and related procedures. To the extent we sell our products internationally, market acceptance may depend, in part, upon the availability of coverage and reimbursement within prevailing healthcare payment systems. Coverage, reimbursement, and healthcare payment systems in international markets vary significantly by country, and by region in some countries, and include both government-sponsored healthcare and private insurance. We may not obtain international reimbursement approvals in a timely manner, if at all. Our failure to receive international coverage or reimbursement approvals would negatively impact market acceptance of our products in the international markets in which those approvals are sought. To date, our products have generally been covered as part of procedures for which reimbursement has been available. However, in the United States, as well as in foreign countries, government-funded or private insurance programs, commonly known as third-party payors, pay the cost of a significant portion of a patient’s medical expenses. No uniform policy of coverage or reimbursement for medical technology exists among all these payors. Therefore, coverage of and reimbursement for medical technology can differ significantly from payor to payor. All third-party coverage and reimbursement programs, whether government funded or insured commercially, whether inside the United States or outside, are developing increasingly sophisticated methods of controlling healthcare costs through limitations on covered items and services, prospective reimbursement and capitation programs, group purchasing, redesign of benefits, second opinions required prior to major surgery, careful review of bills, encouragement of healthier lifestyles and exploration of more cost-effective methods of delivering healthcare. These types of programs and legislative changes to coverage and reimbursement policies could potentially limit the amount which healthcare providers may be willing to pay for medical devices. We believe that future coverage and reimbursement may be subject to increased restrictions both in the United States and in international markets. Third-party reimbursement and coverage for our products may not be available or adequate in either the United States or international markets. Future legislation, regulation, coverage or reimbursement policies of third-party payors may adversely affect the growth of the IVUS and FM markets, the demand for our existing products or our products currently under development, and limit our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. 34 Table of Contents Compliance with environmental laws and regulations could be expensive, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to significant liability. We use hazardous materials in our research and development and manufacturing processes. We are subject to Federal, state and local regulations governing use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and associated waste products. We are currently licensed to handle such materials, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain these licenses in the future or obtain licenses under new regulations if and when they are required by governing authorities. Although we believe our procedures for use, storage, handling and disposing of these materials comply with legally prescribed standards, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from hazardous materials, and we may incur liability as a result of any such contamination or injury. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines, and the liability could exceed our resources and any applicable insurance. We have also incurred and may continue to incur expenses related to compliance with environmental laws. Such future expenses or liability could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, we cannot assure that the cost of compliance with these laws and regulations will not materially increase in the future. We may also incur expenses related to ensuring that our operations comply with environmental laws related to our operations, and those of prior owners or operators of our properties, at current or former manufacturing sites where operations have previously resulted in spills, discharges or other releases of hazardous substances into the environment. The United States environmental laws which we believe are, or may be, applicable include Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, or RCRA, as amended by the Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments of 1984 and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, or CERCLA. These laws regulate the management and disposal of wastes, provide for the investigation and remediation of contaminated land and groundwater resources and establish a pollution prevention program. In addition, various states have implemented environmental protection laws which are the counterparts of CERCLA and/or RCRA in the jurisdiction where the Company had or maintains facilities (e.g., California). These laws may give rise to liability (including strict liability, or liability without fault, and cleanup responsibility) to governmental entities or private parties under these Federal, state or local environmental laws, as well as under common law. For example, we could be held strictly liable under CERCLA for contamination of property that we currently or formerly owned or operated without regard to fault or whether our actions were in compliance with law at the time. Our liability could also increase if other responsible parties, including prior owners or operators of our facilities, fail to complete their clean-up obligations or satisfy indemnification obligations to us. The European Union has enacted the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment, or RoHS, and the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment, or WEEE, directives. The RoHS directive prohibits the use of certain levels of six substances, including lead, mercury, cadmium and hexavalent chromium, in covered products placed on the market after July 1, 2006. The WEEE directive obligates parties that place electrical and electronic equipment onto the market in the European Union to clearly mark the equipment, register with and report to European Union regulators regarding distribution of the equipment, and provide a mechanism to recall and properly dispose of the equipment. Each European Union member country has enacted, or is expected to soon enact, legislation clarifying what is and what is not covered by the WEEE and RoHS directives in that country. However, there is still some uncertainty in certain European Union countries as to which party involved in the manufacture, distribution and sale of electronic equipment will be ultimately held responsible. If our subsidiary, Axsun, is deemed to be a manufacturer of covered products, we may be required to register as a producer in certain European Union countries, and incur financial responsibility with respect to products sold within the European Union, including products of other manufacturers that have been replaced by our products. We may also incur substantial costs to change our manufacturing processes, redesign or reformulate, and obtain substitute components for, our products that are deemed covered products under the RoHS directive. We may also incur significant inventory write-downs if certain components held in inventory become unusable because they are not RoHS-compliant. If we fail to timely provide RoHS-compliant products, we will not be able to offer our products within European Union, and we may be subject to civil or criminal liabilities. Penalties for failure to comply with the WEEE Directive differ across European countries and come under two headings: failure to register and non-compliance. Those failing to register generally are subject to a fine and non-compliant products are either blocked or taken off the market. 35 Table of Contents The use, misuse or off-label use of our products may result in injuries that could lead to product liability suits, which could be costly to our business. Our currently marketed products have been cleared by the FDA for particular indications for the qualitative and quantitative evaluation of the coronary and peripheral vasculature. Our products are also CE marked, licensed in Canada, have approvals in Japan, as well as regulatory approvals in many other countries around the world for specific indications for use. There may be increased risk of injury if physicians attempt to use our products in procedures outside of those indications cleared for use, known as off-label use. Our sales force is trained according to company policy not to promote our products for off-label uses, and in our instructions for use in all markets we specify that our products are not intended for use outside of those indications cleared for use. However, we cannot prevent a physician from using our products for off-label applications. Our catheters and guide wires are intended to be single-procedure products. In spite of clear labeling and instructions against reuse, we are aware that certain physicians have elected to reuse our products. Reuse of our catheters and guide wires may increase the risk of product liability claims. Reuse may also subject the party reusing the product to regulatory authority inspection and enforcement action. Physicians may also misuse our product if they are not adequately trained, potentially leading to injury and an increased risk of product liability. If our products are defectively designed, manufactured or labeled, contain defective components or are misused, we may become subject to costly litigation by our customers or their patients. Product liability claims could divert management’s attention from our core business, be expensive to defend and result in sizable damage awards against us. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property and Potential Litigation Our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology through patents and other means is uncertain. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technologies. Our policy is to obtain and protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, and nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. Our pending United States and foreign patent applications may not issue as patents or may not issue in a form that will be advantageous to us. Among other reasons, for example, the United States Supreme Court and other courts have issued and continue to issue opinions that may affect the scope of or whether we will be able to obtain patent protection. Any patents we have obtained or will obtain may be challenged by re-examination, opposition or other administrative proceeding, or in litigation. Such challenges could result in a determination that the patent is invalid. In addition, competitors may be able to design alternative methods or devices that avoid infringement of our patents. To the extent our intellectual property protection offers inadequate protection, or is found to be invalid, we are exposed to a greater risk of direct competition. If our intellectual property does not provide adequate protection against our competitors’ products, our competitive position could be adversely affected, as could our business. Both the patent application process and the process of managing patent disputes can be time consuming and expensive. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In addition to pursuing patents on our technology, we have taken steps to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology by entering into confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants, corporate partners and, when needed, our advisors. Such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements, and we may not be able to prevent such unauthorized disclosure. Monitoring unauthorized disclosure is difficult, and we do not know whether the steps we have taken to prevent such disclosure are, or will be, adequate. In the event a competitor infringes upon our patent or other intellectual property rights, litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against challenge, even if successful, could be expensive 36 Table of Contents and time consuming and could require significant time and attention from our management. We may not have sufficient resources to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against challenges from others. The medical device industry is characterized by patent litigation, and we could become subject to litigation that could be costly, result in the diversion of our management’s time and efforts, require us to pay damages or prevent us from selling our products. The medical device industry is characterized by extensive litigation and administrative proceedings over patent and other intellectual property rights. Whether or not a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. Our competitors may assert that they own U.S. or foreign patents containing claims that cover our products, their components or the methods we employ in the manufacture or use of our products. In addition, we may become a party to an interference proceeding declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine the priority of invention. Because patent applications can take many years to issue and in many instances at least 18 months to publish, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware, which may later result in issued patents that contain claims that cover our products. There could also be existing patents, of which we are unaware, that contain claims that cover one or more components of our products. As the number of participants in our industry increases, the possibility of patent infringement claims against us also increases. Any interference proceeding, litigation or other assertion of claims against us may cause us to incur substantial costs, could place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of our management from our core business and harm our reputation. If the relevant patents were upheld as valid and enforceable and we were found to be infringing, we could be required to pay substantial damages and/or royalties and could be prevented from selling our products unless we could obtain a license or were able to redesign our products to avoid infringement. Any such license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. If we fail to obtain any required licenses or make any necessary changes to our products or technologies, we may be unable to make, use, sell or otherwise commercialize one or more of our products in the affected country. In addition, if we are found to infringe willfully, we could be required to pay treble damages and attorney fees, among other penalties. We expect to enter new product fields, such as IVUS guided therapies, FLIVUS, and OCT imaging, in the future. Entering such additional fields may subject us to claims of infringement. Defending any infringement claims would be expensive and time consuming. We are aware of certain third-party U.S. patents in these fields. We do not have licenses to these patents nor do we believe that such licenses are required to develop, commercialize or sell our products in these areas. However, the owners of these patents may initiate a lawsuit alleging infringement of one or more of these or other patents. If they do, we may be required to incur substantial costs related to patent litigation, which could place a significant strain on our financial resources and divert the attention of management from our business and harm our reputation. Adverse determinations in such litigation could cause us to redesign or prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products in these areas, which would have an adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to generate revenues through the sale of these products. From time to time in the ordinary course of business, we receive letters from third parties advising us of third-party patents that may relate to our business. The letters do not explicitly seek any particular action or relief from us. Although these letters do not threaten legal action, these letters may be deemed to put us on notice that continued operation of our business might infringe intellectual property rights of third parties. We do not believe we are infringing any such third-party rights, and we are unaware of any litigation or other proceedings having been commenced against us asserting such infringement. We cannot assure you that such litigation or other proceedings may not be commenced against us in the future. 37 Table of Contents Our rights to a worldwide license of certain IVUS patents owned or licensed by Boston Scientific may be challenged. The marketing and sale of our current rotational IVUS catheters and pullback products depend on a license for IVUS-related patents owned or licensed by Boston Scientific. Boston Scientific was required to transfer the related intellectual property rights pursuant to a 1995 order of the Federal Trade Commission. We obtained rights to the license in 2003 through our former wholly-owned subsidiary, Pacific Rim Medical Ventures, which merged into us on December 30, 2004. In the event Boston Scientific disputes our rights to the license or seeks to terminate the license, we may be required to expend significant time and resources defending our rights. An adverse determination could cause us to redesign or prevent us from manufacturing or selling our rotational IVUS catheters and pullback products, which would have an adverse effect on our business. Additionally, in the event that the chain of title from the 1995 transfer of rights from Boston Scientific through the 2003 transfer to us is successfully challenged, we may have fewer rights to the technology than our business requires which will negatively impact our ability to continue our development of rotational IVUS catheters and pullback products or subject us to disputes with Boston Scientific or others with respect to the incorporation of this intellectual property into our products. Our VH IVUS business depends on a license from The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, the loss of which would severely impact our business. The marketing and sale of our VH IVUS functionality for IVUS depends on an exclusive license to patents owned by The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, the license to which we obtained in April 2002. We are aware that maintenance of the license depends upon certain provisions being met by us including payment of royalties, commercialization of the licensed technology and obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals. If The Cleveland Clinic Foundation were to claim that we committed a material breach or default of these provisions and we were not able to cure such breach or default, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation would have a right to terminate the agreement. The loss of the rights granted under the agreement could require us to redesign our VH IVUS functionality or prevent us from manufacturing or selling our IVUS products containing VH IVUS in countries covered by these patents. In addition, our exclusive license shall become non-exclusive if we fail to obtain regulatory clearances or approvals to commercialize the licensed technology within a proscribed time period. The cost of redesigning or an inability to sell our VH IVUS products would have a negative impact on our ability to grow our business and may cause a drop in our stock price. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We expect that the price of our common stock will fluctuate substantially. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuation. Factors that could cause volatility in the market price of our common stock include the following: • changes in earnings estimates, investors’ perceptions, recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to achieve analysts’ earning estimates; • quarterly variations in our or our competitors’ results of operations; • changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory clearance or approvals; • changes in availability of third-party reimbursement in the United States or other countries; • the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • the announcement of an acquisition or other business combination or strategic transaction; • announcements related to patents issued to us or our competitors; • the announcement of pending or threatened litigation; 38 Table of Contents • sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers and directors; and • general market and economic conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. These factors may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Future equity issuances or a sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline. As of December 31, 2008, the holders of a significant number of shares of our common stock may require us, subject to certain conditions, to file a registration statement covering those shares. If any of these stockholders cause a large number of securities to be sold in the public market, the sales could reduce our stock price. In addition, sales of these shares could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem reasonable or appropriate. Because we may need to raise additional capital in the future to continue to expand our business and develop new products, among other things, we may conduct additional equity offerings. These future equity issuances, together with any additional shares issued in connection with acquisitions, will result in further dilution to investors. As of December 31, 2008, options to purchase 5,957,995 shares of our common stock were outstanding under our equity compensation plans. On February 27, 2009, 88,303 restricted stock units vested and converted to shares of our common stock. No prediction can be made regarding the effect that future sales of shares of our common stock will have on the market price of our shares. Our directors, officers and principal stockholders have significant voting power and may take actions that may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders. As of December 31, 2008, our directors, officers and principal stockholders each holding more than 5% of our common stock collectively controlled 64% of our outstanding common stock. To the extent our directors, officers and principal stockholders continue to hold a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock, these stockholders, if they act together, would be able to exert significant influence over the management and affairs of our company and most matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, might adversely affect the market price of our common stock and may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders. Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law could discourage a takeover. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a takeover. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors; • advance notice requirements to stockholders for matters to be brought at stockholder meetings; • a supermajority stockholder vote requirement for amending certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws; and • the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. We are also subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law that, in general, prohibit any business combination or merger with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock unless the holder’s acquisition of our stock was approved in advance by our board of directors. These provisions might discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or a change in our 39 Table of Contents management. The existence of these provisions could adversely affect the voting power of holders of common stock and limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We have adopted a stockholder rights plan that may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control and make any future unsolicited acquisition attempt more difficult. Under the rights plan: • the rights will become exercisable only upon the occurrence of certain events specified in the plan, including the acquisition of 20% of our outstanding common stock by a person or group, with limited exceptions; • each right will entitle the holder, other than an acquiring person, to acquire shares of our common stock at a discount to the then prevailing market price; • our board of directors may redeem outstanding rights at any time prior to a person becoming an acquiring person at a minimal price per right; and • prior to a person becoming an acquiring person, the terms of the rights may be amended by our board of directors without the approval of the holders of the rights. We have not paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends in the future. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain all future earnings for the operation and expansion of our business and, therefore, do not anticipate declaring or paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, capital requirements, financial condition, prospects, contractual arrangements, any limitations on payments of dividends present in our current and future debt agreements, and other factors our board of directors may deem relevant. If we do not pay dividends, a return on your investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 