risk factors. The registry is a prospective, global multi-center, non-randomized, all-comer study of approximately 300 carotid artery stenting patients in the United States, Europe and Japan. Each participant will undergo IVUS imaging of carotid arteries to be stented and will be eligible to undergo IVUS imaging of the same arteries should such participant experience a subsequent cardiac event that requires catheterization. This allows comparison of the initial and follow-up data to begin to draw observations on correlations between the initial images and plaque progression or clinical events. This study will ascertain the prevalence of non-flow obstructing lesions by tissue characteristics, but not the clinical significance, in an attempt to provide a broader view of the prevalence of disease characteristics in this population as well as the broader population. The study will commence enrollment in the first half of 2007 and we expect to complete enrollment by the first quarter of 2008. Drug Studies Using IVUS A number of new pharmacological agents have been developed recently to address vascular disease. These agents have focused on addressing a number of the elements that lead to plaque development and progression in the arteries. The biggest example is the family of cholesterol lowering drugs known as statins. Grayscale IVUS has become a standard endpoint in a number of pharmacological studies. IVUS is being used in drug studies ranging from animal to human clinical studies from Phase 1 to Phase 4. IVUS is used to measure plaque volumes and location at index and again at pre-determined follow-up time, such as 12 months, after the patient has been on a certain dosage of the drug being studied. The FDA has approved IVUS as a surrogate endpoint for these studies. In addition to the detailed plaque information obtained from IVUS that is not available from any other modality, drug companies are able to conduct studies with far fewer patients and conduct studies with shorter lengths than in studies where only clinical endpoints are collected. This substantially reduces a drug company’s cost of clinical studies and time to regulatory approval and commercialization. The advantages of IVUS over angiography have led to the adoption of IVUS as the standard for the assessment of atherosclerosis progression/regression studies. Additionally, there are number of new pharmacological agents in development that are being developed independently or combined with existing vascular pharmacological agents. We are or have been involved with GSK, Novartis AG, Lipid Sciences, Inc., Tanabe Seiyaku Co., Ltd. and Kowa Company, Ltd. on clinical studies using IVUS and our VH IVUS product. We believe the additional information our VH IVUS product and IVUS palpography provides will enable us to participate in a growing number of drug studies. Sales, Marketing and Distribution We have direct sales capability in the United States and Western Europe. We intend to continue to increase our direct sales personnel. In addition to our direct sales efforts, we have Japanese distribution relationships with Goodman, Fukuda Denshi and Johnson & Johnson Cordis Division, and additional distribution relationships with 38 distributors in 27 other countries. 15 Table of Contents At our discretion, we place medical diagnostic equipment at certain customer locations who agree to use the equipment and purchase specified quantities of our single-procedure disposable products. We retain ownership of this equipment and record it in property and equipment in our financial statements. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, the net book value of medical diagnostic equipment included in property and equipment was $3,139,000 and $3,300,000, respectively. In March 2006, we signed a supply and distribution agreement with GE that forms an important part of our sales and marketing strategy. GE has a significant share of the worldwide cath lab installation market and competes both for a substantial number of new cath lab installations as well as existing cath lab upgrades. We will leverage GE’s sales force to market our s5i GE Innova IVUS consoles on a global basis excluding Japan. We plan to enter into additional agreements to market integrated systems. These agreements allow us to coordinate our marketing efforts with our strategic partners while still dealing directly with the customer. We sell consoles and disposables, including IVUS catheters and FM guide wires, using different approaches: • Consoles. We sell our consoles through our own direct sales force, through distributors and through our supply and distribution agreement with GE. • Disposables. We leverage our installed base of consoles to drive recurring sales of our proprietary disposables. We provide training and clinical support to users of our products to increase their familiarity with product features and benefits, and thereby increase usage. Our relationships with physician thought leaders in interventional cardiology are an important component of our selling efforts. These relationships are typically built around research collaborations that enable us to better understand and articulate the most useful features and benefits of our products, and to develop new solutions to challenges in percutaneous interventional medicine. We will continue to seek support and collaboration from highly regarded physicians to perform important research and accelerate market awareness and adoption of our products. While we and our distributors sell to hospitals, interventional physicians typically drive the purchasing decision. As of December 31, 2006, our global marketing team was comprised of 13 individuals, covering product management, corporate communications and programs, clinical support, and education and training. We devote significant resources to training and educating physicians in the use and benefits of our products. We also promote our products through medical society meetings attended by interventionalists. Since January 1, 2005, we have trained over 800 clinicians in courses we sponsored. United States In the United States, we sell our products directly to customers and through GE, our distributor. As of December 31, 2006, we had 69 direct sales professionals focused on selling both our IVUS and FM products. Our U.S. sales organization includes 23 account sales representatives and 40 clinical consultants. Account sales representatives are responsible for selling our products while the clinical consultants work with customers on training and supporting product use. We currently have five regions headed by a regional manager in each region and a Vice President of U.S. Sales. International We derive, and anticipate we will continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from operations in Japan and Europe. Any material decrease in our international revenues or inability to expand our international operations would adversely impact our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Our international operations expose us and our representatives, agents and distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions, including the risks described in “Risk Factors — The risks inherent in our international operations may adversely impact our revenues, results of operations and financial condition.” 16 Table of Contents Japan Three companies distribute our IVUS and FM products in Japan. We have direct contractual relationships with Goodman, Fukuda Denshi and Johnson & Johnson Cordis Division. In addition, Fukuda Denshi has sub-distribution agreements with other parties. While these multi-level relationships allow us to access specific customers and markets, they create complex distribution arrangements and increase our reliance on our Japanese distributors. We currently support our Japanese distributors through our Tokyo-based subsidiary, Volcano Japan Co., Ltd. (Volcano Japan). As of December 31, 2006, Volcano Japan had a General Manager and five sales and clinical support representatives. Until June 1, 2006, our Japanese distributors handled all matters relating to importation, warehousing and regulatory compliance for our products in Japan. With respect to our IVUS products, Volcano Japan now controls these matters due to the transfer by Fukuda Denshi of the Japanese regulatory approvals, or shonins, related to these products. This transfer took place on June 1, 2006. As a result of the transfer of the shonins, we have retained a third party to assist with the additional responsibilities related to importation, warehousing and regulatory compliance. Our distribution agreements in Japan are generally organized according to specific clinical markets: Interventional Cardiology Goodman distributes our IVUS products for use in interventional cardiology to over 1,100 Japanese accounts. In addition, Fukuda Denshi distributes our IVUS products to approximately 100 additional interventional cardiology accounts in Japan. Until June 1, 2006, Fukuda Denshi was responsible for obtaining and maintaining the shonins related to our IVUS products. Our previous agreements with Fukuda Denshi were scheduled to terminate in 2007. However, we entered into an agreement with Fukuda Denshi in March 2006 which became effective upon the transfer to us of the shonins related to our IVUS products. Such transfer took place on June 1, 2006. Upon the effectiveness of the agreement with Fukuda Denshi, our distribution relationship with Fukuda Denshi was extended until 2012 and our other previous agreements with Fukuda Denshi were terminated. As a result of the transfer of the shonins, Volcano Japan has assumed the regulatory responsibilities related to such products. Functional Measurement Goodman currently distributes our FM products in Japan to all customers. In addition, Goodman is responsible for Japanese regulatory compliance relating to our FM products. Endovascular/ Peripheral Applications Johnson & Johnson Cordis Division distributes our IVUS products in Japan for use in endovascular and peripheral applications. Our current contractual arrangements allow us to engage other third parties to distribute our IVUS products in Japan for this market. Western Europe We distribute our IVUS and FM products in Western Europe through our subsidiary, Volcano Europe, S.A./N.V. (Volcano Europe). We sell our products directly to customers in certain Western European markets and utilize distributors in other Western European markets, including Spain, Portugal and parts of Italy. As of December 31, 2006, our distribution efforts in Western Europe were led by a General Manager, a Director of European Sales, nine account representatives and two clinical specialists. Other International In emerging markets with rapid growth in interventional procedures, including in the major markets of Asia Pacific, excluding Japan, Latin America, Eastern Europe, Australia, Africa and the Middle East, we have distributor relationships through which we sell our products. Our distributors are involved in product launch planning, education and training, physician support and clinical trial management. 17 Table of Contents Supply and Distribution Agreement with GE In March 2006, we entered into a supply and distribution agreement with GE, pursuant to which we are collaborating on the development and distribution of our s5i GE Innova IVUS product, which is our IVUS imaging system console that is installed directly into a cath lab on a permanent basis and is able to be integrated with GE’s Innova system. Integration with GE’s Innova System allows control of the IVUS system from cath lab control stations located at the patient table and in the cath lab control room. Under the terms of the agreement, GE has been granted exclusive distribution rights worldwide, excluding Japan, for the s5i GE Innova IVUS product for a period of 12 months, subject to minimum purchase forecasts. After a 12-month exclusivity period, which commenced on August 15, 2006, GE shall have non-exclusive distribution rights for the s5i GE Innova IVUS product. In addition, GE has been granted non-exclusive distribution rights worldwide, excluding Japan, for our s5i product. GE is responsible for various items relating to the integration of the s5i GE Innova IVUS product into its Innova system, including offering the products as part of its cardiovascular and interventional radiology product lines. Unless extended, or terminated earlier in accordance with its terms, the agreement will expire on December 31, 2009. Competition We compete primarily on the basis of our ability to assist in the diagnosis and treatment of vascular diseases safely and effectively, with ease and predictability of product use, adequate third-party reimbursement, brand name recognition and cost. We believe that we compete favorably with respect to these factors, although there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to do so in the future or that new products that perform better than those we offer will not be introduced. We believe that our continued success depends on our ability to: • innovate and maintain scientifically advanced technology; • apply our technology across products and markets; • develop proprietary products; • successfully conduct clinical studies that expand our markets; • obtain and maintain patent protection for our products; • obtain and maintain regulatory approvals; • cost-effectively manufacture and successfully market our products; and • attract and retain skilled personnel. Our markets are highly competitive, subject to change and significantly affected by new product introductions and other activities of industry participants. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial and human resources than we do and have established relationships with healthcare professionals, customers and third-party payors. In addition many of our competitors have established distributor networks, greater resources for product development, sales and marketing, additional lines of products and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer discounts or incentives. Our primary IVUS competitor globally is Boston Scientific, but we also compete with Terumo Corporation in Japan. In the FM market, our primary competitor is Radi Medical Systems AB, a private medical device manufacturer. Because of the size of the vascular market opportunities, competitors and potential competitors have dedicated and will continue to dedicate significant resources to aggressively promote their products. New product developments that could compete with us more effectively are likely because the vascular disease market is characterized by extensive research efforts and technological progress. Competitors may develop technologies and products that are safer, more effective, easier to use or less expensive than ours. We have encountered and expect to continue to encounter potential physician customers who, due to existing relationships with our competitors, are committed to or prefer the products offered by these competitors. We expect that competitive pressures may result in price reductions and reduced margins over time for our products. Our products may be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances developed by one or more of our competitors. 18 Table of Contents Intellectual Property We believe that in order to maintain a competitive advantage in the marketplace, we must develop and maintain the proprietary aspects of our technologies. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret, copyright and other intellectual property rights and measures to aggressively protect our intellectual property. We require our employees and consultants to execute confidentiality agreements in connection with their employment or consulting relationships with us. We also require our employees and consultants who work on our products to agree to disclose and assign to us all inventions conceived during the term of their employment, using our property or which relate to our business. Despite measures taken to protect our intellectual property, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. In addition, our competitors may independently develop similar technologies. The medical device industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. As the number of entrants into our market increases, the risk of an infringement claim against us grows. While we attempt to ensure that our products and methods do not infringe other parties’ patents and proprietary rights, our competitors may assert that our products, and the methods we employ, are covered by patents held by them. In addition, our competitors may assert that future products and methods we may employ infringe their patents. If third parties claim that we infringe upon their intellectual property rights, we may incur liabilities and costs and may have to redesign or discontinue selling the affected product. Risks to our intellectual property rights are listed in “Risk Factors— Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property and Potential Litigation.” Patents and Trademarks As of December 31, 2006, we had 184 owned or licensed U.S. and international patents and 103 applications for owned or licensed patents. We intend to continue to expand our intellectual property position to protect the design and use of our products, principally in the areas of IVUS and FM for the diagnosis and guidance of treatment of vascular and structural heart disease. Additionally, we own material trademarks, trade names or logos that we use in conjunction with the sale of our products. We currently have registered trademarks for Volcano ® , Eagle Eye ® , Visions ® , Revolution®, ComboWire ® , SmartMap ® , ComboMap ® , SmartWire ® , FloWire ® , WaveWire ® , among others, and are in the process of registering certain other of our trademarks with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office including, but not limited to, vfusion, powered by VolcanoTM, vfusion TM, AIMTM, RevolutionTM, ComboMapTM, Virtual HistologyTMand VHTM. The duration remaining on our patents ranges from 2 to 16 years. We continue to invest in internal research and development of concepts within our current markets and within other potential future markets. This enables us to continue to build our patent portfolio in areas of company interest. Third-party Licenses We have expanded our product portfolio by both in-licensing and out-licensing technology and intellectual property. The Cleveland Clinic License In April 2002, we entered into a license agreement with The Cleveland Clinic Foundation. The incorporation of our VH IVUS functionality into our IVUS product offerings depends on access to patents owned by The Cleveland Clinic Foundation and made available to us pursuant to an exclusive, irrevocable, in-bound license granted to us by The Cleveland Clinic Foundation pursuant to the license agreement. These worldwide license rights are within the field of diagnosis and treatment of atherosclerosis and related vascular diseases using intravascular methods and include the right to sublicense. We commercially launched our VH IVUS functionality for our IVUS products in 2005. In relation to the sale of our products which incorporate any of the licensed patents, we will be responsible for paying certain royalties to The Cleveland Clinic Foundation. These royalties vary depending on where our product is sold, how the patent is incorporated into our product and when in the period of patent protection our product is sold. This license granted under this agreement terminates on a country-by-country basis upon the expiration of the last to expire patent licensed under the agreement. However, the agreement will continue in effect as long as we continue to incorporate into our products the technology licensed to us by The Cleveland Clinic Foundation. 19 Table of Contents Asset Transfer Agreement with Philips In 2003, we entered into an asset transfer agreement with Philips whereby Philips transferred to us rights to certain intellectual property that is related to IVUS and is owned by Boston Scientific. Boston Scientific was required to make these patents and related intellectual property available to third parties based on action by the Federal Trade Commission and the United States District Court. We obtained rights through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Pacific Rim Medical Ventures, which merged into us on December 30, 2004. In addition to certain upfront and annual payments, we must pay Philips royalties based on the volume of products sold by us that incorporate technology acquired pursuant to the asset transfer agreement. This intellectual property in conjunction with the intellectual property that we acquired from Jomed, Inc. in 2003 and the intellectual property we have developed form the foundation of our IVUS products. License with Medtronic Concurrent with our acquisition of the IVUS and FM product lines from Jomed, Inc. in July 2003, we granted to Medtronic a fully paid, royalty free, worldwide, exclusive license to certain of our patents for a specific field. The field allows the inclusion of our IVUS imaging components into Medtronic’s Pioneer product. This product is also being used in clinical studies by Medtronic in collaboration with Genzyme Corporation for delivery of cells to the myocardium in an attempt to create viable myocardium. License with Paieon In May 2006, we entered into a software development and license agreement with Paieon. Under the terms of the agreement, Paieon conducted development activities to design and develop computer software to integrate its CardiOp-B product with our IVUS IVG and we released the product for evaluation by key customers on a limited basis in the first quarter of 2007. We have obtained the required regulatory approvals in the United States and Europe. We have been granted non-exclusive, non-transferable licenses to certain Paieon technology to allow us to undertake our activities under the development plan and to demonstrate the integrated products as part of our promotion, sales and marketing efforts. In addition, Paieon has granted us a royalty-bearing, non-exclusive license to use certain Paieon technology in connection with the licensing of the integrated products. In relation to such license, we will be responsible for paying license fees based on the volume of licenses granted each year with respect to the integrated products. We are also responsible for making certain payments to Paieon from time to time upon the occurrence of certain development milestone events. The term of the agreement is six years. Although the co-registration development effort on our s5 consoles were commenced in 2006, further development is being delayed pending further evaluation of the performance and benefits of the functionality and to solicit feedback from physicians and technicians regarding the use of the IVUS IVG consoles into which the co-registration functionality has been integrated. As such, we do not expect that commercialization of this functionality on our S5 consoles to occur in the second half 2007 as previously anticipated. Research and Development Our research efforts are directed towards the development of new products and technologies that expand our existing platform of capabilities and applications in support of percutaneous interventions. As of December 31, 2006, our research and development staff consisted of 67 full-time engineers and technicians. The majority of this staff is located in Rancho Cordova, California. In addition, we employ four scientists and technicians based at our Advanced Technology Lab located in Cleveland, Ohio. Our research and development staff are focused on the development of new IVUS systems and catheters, FM consoles and guide wires, and advanced clinical applications that support our core business objectives. Our product development process incorporates teams organized around each of our core technologies, with each team having representatives from research and development, marketing, regulatory, quality, clinical affairs and manufacturing. Consultants are utilized when additional specialized expertise is required. Our team sets development priorities based on communicated customer needs. The feedback received from beta testing is incorporated into successive design iterations until a new product is ready for release. 20 Table of Contents Our research and development team has a demonstrated track record of successful new product introductions and significant product improvements. Since the beginning of 2005, we have introduced Eagle Eye Gold IVUS catheters, the VH IVUS functionality, the s5 console, and the ComboWire. Our research and development strategy leverages our core capabilities in systems, transducer and catheter design, and advanced algorithms to produce products intended to gain share in our existing markets and enable us to enter new evolving markets. Our research and development expenditures were $16.9 million in 2006, $15.1 million in 2005 and $9.8 million in 2004. These totals include the research and development, clinical and regulatory affairs department expenses. Manufacturing Our manufacturing facility is located in Rancho Cordova, California, where we produce IVUS consoles, FM consoles, IVUS catheters and FM guide wires. Our manufacturing strategy for our consoles is to use third-party manufacturing partners to produce circuit boards and mechanical sub-assemblies. We perform incoming inspection, final assembly and test of products to assure quality control. Our manufacturing strategy for the single-procedure disposable products is to use third-party manufacturing partners for certain proprietary components. We perform incoming inspection on these components, assemble them into finished devices and test the final product to assure quality control. We presently use equipment, which is no longer produced or supported by a third party, for the manufacture of the scanners located on our phased array catheters. We have engaged a third party to develop an automated system to replace this equipment. While we believe the use of this new system should reduce the risk of supply problems, the third party must develop the automated system to be capable of manufacturing at our anticipated volume. Such development is expected to be completed in the first half of 2007. However, there is no guarantee that it will be completed in a timely manner or, upon completion, the system will be able to function at the capacity we require. Upon completion, the automated system will be located at the third party’s facility, which requires us to be dependent on the third party for its day-to-day control and protection of the system. We manufacture our products in a controlled environment and have implemented quality control systems as part of our manufacturing processes. The control systems materially comply with the United States FDA Quality System Regulations, or QSR. We believe we are in material compliance with the FDA QSR for medical devices, with ISO 13485 quality standards, and with applicable medical device directives promulgated by the European Union, and policy on the Canadian Medical Devices Conformity Assessment System, which facilitates entry of our products into the European Union and Canada. The FDA and E.U. Notified Body have both inspected our manufacturing facilities in the last 20 months. Our current facility has been inspected by the FDA, the California Department of Health Services Food and Drug Branch, and the E.U. Notified Body. Observations for improvements were noted as well as findings of deficiencies. We believe we have adequately addressed the inspectional observations and we are in material compliance with applicable regulatory directives. We expect to be inspected by the FDA and state and international authorities again in the future. If the FDA or state or international authorities find significant shortcomings, we could be subject to fines, recalls or requirements to halt manufacturing and shipments of affected products. Any of these enforcement actions could have a material effect on our business, by disrupting our ability to manufacture and sell product, impacting our profitability or harming our reputation or that of our products. See “Risk Factors — Risks Related to Government Regulation.” Government Regulation Our products are medical devices subject to extensive and rigorous regulation by the FDA, as well as other Federal and state regulatory bodies in the United States and comparable authorities in other countries. We currently market our products in the United States under pre-market notification, or 510(k), clearance. If we seek to market new products, or to market new indications for our existing products, we will be required to file for and obtain 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval, or PMA. The FDA regulations govern the following activities that we perform, or that are performed on our behalf, to ensure that medical products distributed domestically or exported internationally are safe and effective for their intended uses: • product design, development and manufacture; 21 Table of Contents • product safety, testing, labeling and storage; • pre-marketing clearance or approval; • record keeping procedures; • product marketing, sales and distribution; and • post-marketing surveillance, complaint handling, medical device reporting, reporting of deaths or serious injuries and repair or recall of products. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action by the FDA, which may include any of the following sanctions: • warning letters, untitled letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; • repair, replacement, refunds, recall or seizure of our products; • operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; • refusing our requests for 510(k) clearance or PMA approval of new products, new intended uses or modifications to existing products; • withdrawing 510(k) clearance or PMA approvals that have already been granted; and • criminal prosecution. Employees As of December 31, 2006, we had 505 employees. None of our employees is represented by a labor union, and we believe our employee relations are good. Seasonality Our business is generally seasonal in nature. Historically, demand for our products has been the highest in the fourth quarter. We traditionally experience lower sales volumes in the third quarter than throughout the rest of the year as a result of the holiday schedule during the summer months. Our working capital requirements vary from period to period depending on manufacturing volumes, the timing of deliveries and the payment cycles of our customers. Corporate Information We were incorporated in the state of Delaware in January 2000 and until 2003 were a development stage company substantially devoted to the research and development of tools designed to diagnose vulnerable plaque. In July 2003, we acquired substantially all of the assets related to the IVUS and FM product lines from Jomed, Inc. and commenced the manufacturing, sale and distribution of IVUS and FM products. Available Information Our corporate website is www.volcanocorp.com and our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding the company, at www.sec.gov. These reports and other information concerning the company may also be accessed at the SEC’s 22 Table of Contents Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, our reference to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We are dependent on the success of our IVUS consoles and catheters and cannot be certain that our products will achieve the broad acceptance necessary to develop a sustainable, profitable business. Our revenues are primarily derived from sales of our intravascular ultrasound, or IVUS, products, which include our consoles and our single-procedure disposable catheters. We expect that sales of our IVUS products will continue to account for substantially all of our revenues for the foreseeable future. IVUS technology is widely used for determining the placement of stents in patients with coronary disease in Japan, where we believe the procedure penetration rate was over 50% in 2005. By contrast, the penetration rate in the United States for the same type of procedure was only 11% in 2005. It is difficult to predict the penetration and future growth rate or size of the market for IVUS technology. The expansion of the IVUS market depends on a number of factors, such as: • physicians accepting the benefits of the use of IVUS in conjunction with angiography; • physician experience with IVUS products; • the availability of, and physicians’ willingness to participate in, training required to gain proficiency in the use of IVUS products; • the additional procedure time required for use of IVUS; • perceived risks generally associated with the use of new products and procedures; • the availability of alternative treatments or procedures that are perceived to be or are more effective, safer, easier to use or less costly than IVUS technology; • availability of adequate reimbursement; and • marketing efforts and publicity regarding IVUS technology. Even if IVUS technology gains wide market acceptance, our IVUS products may not adequately address market requirements and may not continue to gain market acceptance among physicians, healthcare payors and the medical community due to factors such as: • the lack of perceived benefits of information on plaque composition available to the physician through use of our IVUS products, including the ability to identify calcified and other forms of plaque; • the actual and perceived ease of use of our IVUS products; • the quality of the images rendered by our IVUS products; • the cost, performance, benefits and reliability of our IVUS products relative to the products and services offered by our competitors; • the lack of perceived benefit of integration of our IVUS products into the cath lab, including the ability to synchronize, or co-register, IVUS images with angiographic images; and • the extent and timing of technological advances. 23 Table of Contents If IVUS technology generally, or our IVUS products specifically, do not gain wide market acceptance, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated growth, revenues or profitability and our results of operations would suffer. We have a limited operating history, have incurred significant operating losses since inception and cannot assure you that we will achieve profitability. We were formed in January 2000 and until 2003 were a development stage company substantially devoted to the research and development of tools designed to diagnose vulnerable plaque. In July 2003, we acquired substantially all of the assets related to the IVUS and functional measurement, or FM, product lines from Jomed, Inc., or the Jomed Acquisition, and commenced the manufacturing, sale and distribution of IVUS and FM products. We have yet to demonstrate that we have sufficient revenues to become a sustainable, profitable business. Even if we do achieve significant revenues, we expect our operating expenses will increase as we expand our business to meet anticipated growing demand for our products and as we devote resources to our sales, marketing and research and development activities. If we are unable to reduce our cost of revenues and our operating expenses, we may not achieve profitability. We incurred net losses of $8.6 million in 2006, $15.3 million in 2005, $16.2 million in 2004 and $15.1 million in 2003. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $64.0 million. Although we have reported net income after taxes in the three month periods ended September 30, 2006 and December 31, 2006, we expect to experience quarterly fluctuations in our revenues due to the timing of capital purchases by our customers and to a lesser degree the seasonality of disposable consumption by our customers and our expenses as we make future investments in research and development, selling and marketing and general and administrative activities that will cause us to experience variability in our reported earnings and losses in future periods. Failure to achieve and sustain profitability would negatively impact the market price of our common stock. If the clinical studies that we sponsor or co-sponsor are unsuccessful, we may not be able to develop or increase penetration in identified markets and our business prospects may suffer. We sponsor or co-sponsor several clinical studies to demonstrate the benefits of our products in current markets where we are trying to increase use of our products and in new markets. Implementing a study is time consuming and expensive, and the outcome is uncertain. The completion of any of these studies may be delayed or halted for numerous reasons, including, but not limited to, the following: • the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA, institutional review boards or other regulatory authorities do not approve a clinical study protocol or place a clinical study on hold; • patients do not enroll in a clinical study or are not followed-up at the expected rate; • patients experience adverse side effects, including adverse side effects to our or a co-sponsor’s drug candidate or device; • patients die during a clinical study for a variety of reasons that may or may not be related to our products, including the advanced stage of their disease and medical problems; • third-party clinical investigators do not perform the clinical studies on the anticipated schedule or consistent with the clinical study protocol and good clinical practices, or other third-party organizations do not perform data collection and analysis in a timely or accurate manner; • our co-sponsors do not perform their obligations in relation to the clinical study or terminate the study; • regulatory inspections of manufacturing facilities, which may, among other things, require us or a co-sponsor to undertake corrective action or suspend the clinical studies; • changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions; • the interim results of the clinical study are inconclusive or negative; and the study design, although approved and completed, is inadequate to demonstrate safety and efficacy. 24 Table of Contents Some of the studies that we co-sponsor are designed to study the efficacy of a third-party’s drug candidate or device. Such studies are designed and controlled by the third-party and the results of such studies will largely depend upon the success of the third-party’s drug candidate or device. These studies may be terminated before completion for reasons beyond our control such as adverse events associated with a third-party drug candidate or device. A failure in such a study may have an adverse impact on our business by either the attribution of the study’s failure to our technology or our inability to leverage publicity for proper functionality of our products as part of a failed study. Clinical studies may require the enrollment of large numbers of patients, and suitable patients may be difficult to identify and recruit. For example, our Volcano VH Registry has enrolled over 3,000 patients and the SPECIAL study has a projected enrollment of 2,000 patients. Patient enrollment in clinical studies and completion of patient follow-up depend on many factors, including the size of the patient population, the study protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, eligibility criteria for the study and patient compliance. For example, patients may be discouraged from enrolling in our clinical studies if the applicable protocol requires them to undergo extensive post-treatment procedures or if they are persuaded to participate in different contemporaneous studies conducted by other parties. Delays in patient enrollment or failure of patients to continue to participate in a study may result in an increase in costs, delays or the failure of the study. Such events may have a negative impact on our business by making it difficult to penetrate or expand certain identified markets. Further, if we are forced to contribute greater financial and clinical resources to a study, valuable resources will be diverted from other areas of our business. If we are unable to identify the plaque that is most likely to rupture and cause a coronary event we may not be able to develop a market for our vulnerable plaque products or expand the market for existing products. We are utilizing substantial resources toward developing technologies to aid in the identification, diagnosis and treatment of the plaque that is most likely to rupture and cause a coronary event, or vulnerable plaque. To date, a connection between ruptured plaque and coronary events has been shown in post-mortem studies, hypothetical models and certain statistical analyses. However, no technology has been proven in clinical trials to identify, prior to the occurrence of a coronary event, the plaque that is most likely to rupture and cause such an event. If we are unable to develop products or technologies that can identify which plaques are likely to rupture and cause a coronary event, a market for products to identify vulnerable plaque may not materialize and our business may suffer. If sponsorship of the PROSPECT study is delayed or stopped, our ongoing and future business may be negatively affected because of the potential inability to obtain useful clinical data or increased costs and delays in completing the study. We sponsor PROSPECT, a natural history study of plaque, with Abbott Vascular, a division of Abbott Laboratories. Pursuant to the terms of our collaboration agreement with Abbott Vascular, either party may terminate the agreement without cause upon 60 days notice. Abbott Vascular, or if sponsorship of the study is transferred by Abbott Vascular, a new collaborator may elect to delay or stop the PROSPECT study prematurely, causing a disruption in gathering clinical data related to vulnerable plaque or limiting the number of patients enrolled. If we chose to continue the study without a collaborator, we would also have additional financial burdens. If we are unable to access the clinical data generated prior to termination, we may have to restart the study which would increase our financial burden and delay the timing of obtaining useful clinical data from the study. In the event that PROSPECT does not result in usable data and we are unable to prove a causal connection between vulnerable plaque and coronary events, the market for our vulnerable plaque products may not materialize. If we have to assume more of the financial burden of this clinical study, we would divert valuable financial and clinical resources from other areas of our business. Competition from companies that have longer operating histories and greater resources than us may harm our IVUS business. The medical device industry, including the market for IVUS products, is highly competitive, subject to rapid technological change and significantly affected by new product introductions and market activities of other participants. As a result, even if the size of the IVUS market increases, we can make no assurance that our revenues will increase. In addition, as the markets for medical devices, including IVUS products, develop, additional competitors could enter the market. To compete effectively, we will need to continue to demonstrate that our products are attractive alternatives to other devices and treatments. We believe that our continued success depends on our ability to: 25 Table of Contents • innovate and maintain scientifically advanced technology; • apply our technology across products and markets; • develop proprietary products; • successfully conduct or sponsor clinical studies that expand our markets; • obtain and maintain patent protection for our products; • obtain and maintain regulatory clearance or approvals; • cost-effectively manufacture and successfully market our products; and • attract and retain skilled personnel. With respect to our IVUS products, our biggest competitor is Boston Scientific. We also compete in Japan with Terumo Corporation. Boston Scientific, Terumo and other potential competitors are substantially larger than us and may enjoy competitive advantages, including: • more established distribution networks; • entrenched relationships with physicians; • products and procedures that are less expensive; • greater experience in launching, marketing, distributing and selling products; • greater experience in obtaining and maintaining the FDA and other regulatory clearances and approvals; • established relationships with healthcare providers and payors; and • greater financial and other resources for product development, sales and marketing, acquisitions of products and companies, and intellectual property protection. For these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully against our current or potential future competitors, and sales of our IVUS products may decline. Failure to innovate will adversely impact our competitive position and may adversely impact our product revenues. Our future success will depend upon our ability to innovate new products and introduce enhancements to our existing products in order to address the changing needs of the marketplace. Frequently, product development programs require assessments to be made of future clinical need and commercial feasibility, which are difficult to predict. Customers may forego purchases of our products and purchase our competitors’ products as a result of delays in introduction of our new products and enhancements, failure to choose correctly among technical alternatives or failure to offer innovative products or enhancements at competitive prices and in a timely manner. In addition, announcements of new products may result in a delay in or cancellation of purchasing decisions in anticipation of such new products. We may not have adequate resources to effectively compete in the marketplace. Any delays in product releases may negatively affect our business. We also compete with new and existing alternative technologies that are being used to penetrate the worldwide vascular imaging market without using IVUS technology. These products, procedures or solutions could prove to be more effective, faster, safer or less costly than our IVUS products. Technologies such as angiography, angioscopy, optical coherence tomography, multi-slice computed tomography, intravascular magnetic resonance imaging, or 26 Table of Contents MRI, electron beam computed tomography, and MRI with contrast agents are being used to image the vascular system. The introduction of new products, procedures or clinical solutions by competitors may result in price reductions, reduced margins, loss of market share and may render our products obsolete. We cannot guarantee that these alternative technologies will not be commercialized and become viable alternatives to IVUS in the future, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete successfully against them if they are commercialized. We manufacture our IVUS catheters, maintain our own customized equipment and are implementing a new manufacturing process, making us vulnerable to production and supply problems that could negatively impact our revenues. We presently use customized equipment which is no longer produced or supported by a third party for the manufacture of the scanners located on our phased array catheters. This equipment was supported by the company that designed and manufactured it until 2002. That company ceased operations in 2002 because changes in manufacturing technology made the design and manufacture of similar equipment more mainstream and automated and made customized manufacturing equipment, such as ours, much less economical to build and support. Because of the customized nature of our equipment and the obsolescence of an industry to create or support such equipment, we cannot rely on third parties to find new parts or replace the equipment. As a result, we are responsible for maintaining the equipment and for locating spare parts. If the equipment malfunctions and we are unable to locate spare parts or hire qualified personnel to repair the equipment, we may encounter delays in the manufacture of our catheters and may not have sufficient inventory to meet our customers’ demands, which could negatively impact our revenues. We have engaged a third party to develop an automated system to replace this equipment. While we believe the use of this new system should reduce our risk of supply problems, the third party must develop the automated system to be capable of manufacturing at our anticipated volume. Such development is expected to be completed in the first half of 2007. However, there is no guarantee that it will be completed in a timely manner or, upon completion, the system will be able to function at the capacity we require. Upon completion, the automated system will be located at the third party’s facility which requires us to be dependent on the third party for its day-to-day control and protection of the system. In addition, it is likely that we will need to expand our manufacturing capacity within the next two years. We expect that any expansion would be achieved through modified space utilization in our current leased facilities, improved efficiencies, automation and acquisition of additional tooling and equipment. We may not have, or be able to obtain, the required funds to expand our manufacturing capacity if necessary. We are dependent on our collaborations, and events involving these collaborations or any future collaborations could delay or prevent us from developing or commercializing products. The success of our current business strategy and our near- and long-term viability will depend on our ability to execute successfully on existing strategic collaborations and to establish new strategic collaborations. Collaborations allow us to leverage our resources and technologies and to access markets that are compatible with our own core areas of expertise. To penetrate our target markets, we may need to enter into additional collaborative agreements to assist in the development and commercialization of future products. Establishing strategic collaborations is difficult and time-consuming. Potential collaborators may reject collaborations based upon their assessment of our financial, regulatory or intellectual property position and our internal capabilities. Our discussions with potential collaborators may not lead to the establishment of new collaborations on favorable terms. We have collaborations with Medtronic, Inc. and certain of its affiliates, or Medtronic, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation and GE. In each collaboration, we combine our technology or core capabilities with that of the third party to either permit greater penetration into markets, as in the case of Medtronic and GE, or enhance the functionality of our current and planned products, as in the case of The Cleveland Clinic Foundation. We have limited control over the amount and timing of resources that our current collaborators or any future collaborators devote to our collaborations or potential products. These collaborators may breach or terminate their agreements with us or otherwise fail to conduct their collaborative activities successfully and in a timely manner. Further, our collaborators may not develop or commercialize products that arise out of our collaborative arrangements or devote sufficient resources to the development, manufacture, marketing or sale of these products. 27 Table of Contents Moreover, in the event of termination of a collaboration agreement, termination negotiations may result in less favorable terms. If we experience difficulties with our IVUS and three-dimensional image development efforts with MediGuide, the commercialization of this product enhancement would be adversely affected. We are working with MediGuide to develop functionality that synchronizes IVUS and three-dimensional images to be included as part of our IVUS consoles. We presently do not have a definitive agreement with MediGuide regarding the on-going development efforts to expand our three-dimensional image capabilities of our IVUS system. Even if the development of expanded three-dimensional image capabilities is completed, we may not be able to reach a definitive agreement with MediGuide, which may hinder or prevent us from commercializing this expanded capability and functionality on our IVUS IVG consoles or on our s5 family of consoles, as presently anticipated. Additionally, we may disagree with MediGuide over production and development schedules, payment obligations and requirements to provide other deliverables. In the event we cannot reach a definitive agreement, certain rights to these developments, including intellectual property rights, may be unclear, and we may have future conflicts with MediGuide over the rights of each company. Such conflicts may result in the loss of certain intellectual property rights or the failure to gain necessary intellectual property rights to the expanded three-dimensional imaging technology and would negatively affect our business if we have to divert valuable resources to reach a resolution. In addition, if we are unable to complete development, full functionality is not achieved or the product does not provide the anticipated benefit, the sale of our IVUS consoles may be adversely impacted. If we experience difficulties with our IVUS and angiographic image co-registration development efforts, the commercialization of this IVUS product enhancement would be adversely affected. We have entered into a software development and license agreement with Paieon to develop functionality that synchronizes IVUS and angiographic images to be included as part of our IVUS consoles. Although the initial development of IVUS and angiographic image co-registration functionality on our IVUS IVG consoles was completed in the second half of 2006, we have delayed further development of this functionality relative to our S5 consoles and to solicit feedback from physicians regarding the use of the IVUS IVG consoles into which the co-registration functionality has been integrated. As such, Paieon and we may not complete, or we may experience delays in the development of the IVUS and angiographic image co-registration functionality to allow commercialization of our s5 consoles with this feature. If Paieon and we experience delays, are unable to complete development, full functionality is not achieved or the product does not provide the anticipated benefit, we may not recoup the investment, and the sale of our IVUS consoles may be adversely impacted. Although initial development of the co-registration functionality on our IVUS IVG consoles has been completed with Paieon, our customers will not be able to use Paieon’s CardiOp-B product until they receive a software key from Paieon. Our relationships with customers could be adversely impacted if Paieon fails to timely deliver this software key. The software development and license agreement with Paieon has a six-year term. At the end of such term, we will no longer be able to license the CardiOp-B product to our customers unless we can extend the existing agreement or enter into a new agreement with Paieon. Delays in planned product introductions may adversely affect our business and negatively impact future revenues. We are currently developing new products and product enhancements with respect to our IVUS and FM products. We may experience delays in any phase of product development and commercial launch, including during research and development, manufacturing, limited release testing, marketing and customer education efforts. Any delays in our product launches may significantly impede our ability to successfully compete in the IVUS and FM markets and may reduce our revenues. We launched the rotational catheter product for our IVUS IVG in the United States and Europe in the third quarter of 2006. We are developing a rotational catheter product for each of our s5 consoles. We expect to launch the rotational catheter product for our s5 consoles in the United States and Europe in the first half of 2007 and for our IVUS IVG and s5 consoles in Japan in the second half of 2007. To reach this goal, we must complete various stages of development, and it may be necessary to delay expected product launches to allow us to finalize product development. We have also been working to improve the design and functionality of our FM ComboMap product. Additional development steps, including manufacturing and product testing, will be necessary before these products 28 Table of Contents can be launched. Any development delays resulting in a delayed launch may have a negative effect on our business, including lost or delayed revenue and decreased market acceptance. We and our present and future collaborators may fail to develop or effectively commercialize products covered by our present and future collaborations if: • we do not achieve our objectives under our collaboration agreements; • we or our collaborators are unable to obtain patent protection for the products or proprietary technologies we develop in our collaborations; • we are unable to manage multiple simultaneous product discovery and development collaborations; • our collaborators become competitors of ours or enter into agreements with our competitors; • we or our collaborators encounter regulatory hurdles that prevent commercialization of our products; and • we develop products and processes or enter into additional collaborations that conflict with the business objectives of our other collaborators. In addition, conflicts may arise with our collaborators, such as conflicts concerning the interpretation of clinical data, the achievement of milestones, the interpretation of financial provisions or the ownership of intellectual property developed during the collaboration. If any conflicts arise with our existing or future collaborators, they may act in their self-interest, which may be adverse to our best interest. If we or our collaborators are unable to develop or commercialize products, or if conflicts arise with our collaborators, we will be delayed or prevented from developing and commercializing products which will harm our business and financial results. To market and sell our products, we depend on third-party distributors, and they may not be successful. We currently depend on third-party distributors to sell our products. If these distributors are not successful in selling our products, we may be unable to increase or maintain our level of revenue. Over the long term, we intend to grow our business internationally, and to do so we will need to attract additional distributors to expand the territories in which we do not directly sell our products. Our distributors may not commit the necessary resources to market and sell our products. If current or future distributors do not perform adequately or if we are unable to locate distributors in particular geographic areas, we may not realize revenue growth internationally. A significant portion of our annual revenue is derived from sales to our Japanese distributors, Fukuda Denshi and Goodman. In 2006, we generated revenues of $14.6 million from sales to Fukuda Denshi and revenues of $15.5 million from sales to Goodman. Additionally, Fukuda Denshi has sub-distribution agreements with other parties who act as sub-distributors of our products. While these multi-level agreements allow us to access specific customers and markets, they create complex distribution arrangements and increase our reliance on our Japanese distributors. We entered into an agreement with Fukuda Denshi in March 2006 that extended our commercial relationship though June 2012. This agreement became effective upon the transfer of the related regulatory approvals held by Fukuda Denshi, which took place on June 1, 2006. A significant change in our relationship with our distributors or in the relationships between our distributors may have a negative impact on our ability to sustain and grow our business in Japan. In certain other international markets, we also use distributors. Other than Japan, no one market in which we use distributors represents a significant portion of our revenues but, in the aggregate, problems with these distribution arrangements could negatively affect our international sales strategy, negatively impact our revenues and the market price of our stock. In addition, in the event that we experience any difficulties under our March 2006 agreement with GE for our s5i and s5i GE Innova IVUS, or in coordinating our efforts with GE, our full commercial launch and revenue from the sale of our s5i and s5i GE Innova IVUS products will be adversely affected. 29 Table of Contents The risks inherent in our international operations may adversely impact our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. We derive, and anticipate we will continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from operations in Japan and Europe. Revenues in 2006 to customers located in Japan and Europe were $30.1 million and $17.8 million, representing 29.2% and 17.2%, respectively, of our total revenue. As we expand internationally, we will need to hire, train and retain qualified personnel for our direct sales efforts and retain distributors and train their personnel in countries where language, cultural or regulatory impediments may exist. We cannot ensure that distributors, physicians, regulators or other government agencies will accept our products, services and business practices. In addition, we purchase some components on the international market. The sale and shipment of our products and services across international borders, as well as the purchase of components from international sources, subject us to extensive U.S. and foreign governmental trade regulations. Compliance with such regulations is costly. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could impact us in a variety of ways that include, but are not limited to, significant criminal, civil and administrative penalties, including imprisonment of individuals, fines and penalties, denial of export privileges, seizure of shipments and restrictions on certain business activities. Failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could result in the disruption of our shipping and sales activities. Our international sales operations expose us and our representatives, agents and distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions, including: • our ability to obtain, and the costs associated with obtaining, U.S. export licenses and other required export or import licenses or approvals; • operating under government-run healthcare systems and changes in third-party reimbursement policies; • changes in duties and tariffs, taxes, trade restrictions, license obligations and other non-tariff barriers to trade; • burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations related to healthcare products; • costs of localizing product and service offerings for foreign markets; • business practices favoring local companies; • longer payment cycles and difficulties collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; • difficulties in enforcing or defending agreements and intellectual property rights; and • changes in foreign political or economic conditions. We cannot ensure that one or more of these factors will not harm our business. Any material decrease in our international revenues or inability to expand our international operations would adversely impact our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Our manufacturing operations are dependent upon sole source suppliers, which makes us vulnerable to supply problems, price fluctuations and manufacturing delays. We rely on AMI Semiconductors, Inc., or AMIS, for the supply of application specific integrated circuits, or ASICs, and for the supply of wafers used in the manufacture of our IVUS IVG consoles and our catheters. These ASICs and wafers are critical to these products, and there are relatively few alternative sources of supply. We do not carry a significant inventory of either component. If we had to change suppliers, we expect that it would take at least a year, and possibly 18 months or longer, to identify an appropriate replacement supplier, complete design work and undertake the necessary inspections before the ASICs or wafers would be available. We rely on International Micro Industries, Inc., or IMI, to undertake additional processing of certain of the ASICs that are produced by AMIS for use in the manufacture of our catheters. We do not carry a significant inventory of the circuits that are finished by IMI. We expect that in the event it is necessary to replace IMI, it would take at least three months, and possibly six months or longer, to identify an appropriate replacement supplier that is able to undertake the additional processing 30 Table of Contents on the ASICs. We are not parties to supply agreements with either AMIS or IMI but instead use purchase orders as needed. We also rely on Dynamics Research Corp. and Quick Logic for the supply of flex circuits and programmable integrated circuits, respectively, which are components used in the manufacture of our IVUS IVG consoles and our catheters. We do not carry significant inventory of either of these components and we do not have supply agreements with either party. We expect that in the event it is necessary to change suppliers with respect to either of these components it will take at least three months, and possibly six months or longer, to identify an appropriate replacement supplier, complete design work and undertake the necessary inspections so that production can be commenced by the new supplier. We also rely on Silicon Microstructures, Inc., or SMI, for the supply of pressure sensors used in the manufacture of our FM wires. We do not carry significant inventory of these components and do not have a supply agreement with SMI. We expect that in the event it is necessary to change suppliers, it would take at least a year, and possibly 18 months or longer, to identify an appropriate replacement supplier, complete design work and undertake the necessary inspections before the pressure sensors would be available. Our reliance on these sole source suppliers subjects us to a number of risks that could impact our ability to manufacture our products and harm our business, including: • inability to obtain adequate supply in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms; • interruption of supply resulting from modifications to, or discontinuation of, a supplier’s operations; • delays in product shipments resulting from uncorrected defects, reliability issues or a supplier’s variation in a component; • uncorrected quality and reliability defects that impact performance, efficacy and safety of products from replacement suppliers; • price fluctuations due to a lack of long-term supply arrangements for key components with our suppliers; • difficulty identifying and qualifying alternative suppliers for components in a timely manner; • production delays related to the evaluation and testing of products from alternative suppliers and corresponding regulatory qualifications; and • delays in delivery by our suppliers due to changes in demand from us or their other customers. Any significant delay or interruption in the supply of components or materials, or our inability to obtain substitute components or materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices and in a timely manner, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers and harm our business. Identifying and qualifying additional or replacement suppliers for any of the components or materials used in our products may not be accomplished quickly or at all and could involve significant additional costs. Any supply interruption from our suppliers or failure to obtain additional suppliers for any of the components or materials used to manufacture our products would limit our ability to manufacture our products and could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to recruit, hire and retain skilled and experienced personnel, our ability to effectively manage and expand our business will be harmed. Our success largely depends on the skills, experience and efforts of our officers and other key employees who may terminate their employment at any time. The loss of any of our senior management team, in particular our President and Chief Executive Officer, R. Scott Huennekens, could harm our business. We have entered into employment contracts with R. Scott Huennekens and our Chief Financial Officer, John T. Dahldorf, but these agreements do not guarantee that they will remain employed by us in the future. The announcement of the loss of one of our key employees could negatively affect our stock price. Our ability to retain our skilled workforce and our success in 31 Table of Contents attracting and hiring new skilled employees will be a critical factor in determining whether we will be successful in the future. We face challenges in hiring, training, managing and retaining employees in certain areas including clinical, technical, sales and marketing. This could delay new product development and commercialization, and hinder our marketing and sales efforts, which would adversely impact our competitiveness and financial results. If we fail to properly manage our anticipated growth, our business could suffer. Rapid growth of our business is likely to place a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources and systems. To execute our anticipated growth successfully, we must attract and retain qualified personnel and manage and train them effectively. In addition, we anticipate hiring additional personnel to assist in the commercialization of our current products and in the development of future products. We will be dependent on our personnel and third parties to effectively market and sell our products to an increasing number of customers. We will also depend on our personnel to develop and manufacture new products and product enhancements. Further, our anticipated growth will place additional strain on our suppliers resulting in increased need for us to carefully monitor for quality assurance. Any failure by us to manage our growth effectively could have an adverse effect on our ability to achieve our development and commercialization goals. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could result in declines in our reported revenues and earnings. Some of our distribution agreements have provisions that provide for payments to us in a foreign currency. Our reported revenues and earnings are subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We do not engage in foreign currency hedging arrangements, and, consequently, foreign currency fluctuations may adversely affect our revenues and earnings. If we choose to acquire new businesses, products or technologies, we may experience difficulty in the identification or integration of any such acquisition, and our business may suffer. Our success depends on our ability to continually enhance and broaden our product offerings in response to changing customer demands, competitive pressures and technologies. Accordingly, we may in the future pursue the acquisition of complementary businesses, products or technologies instead of developing them ourselves. We have no current commitments with respect to any acquisition or investment. We do not know if we will be able to identify or complete any acquisitions, or whether we will be able to successfully integrate any acquired business, product or technology or retain key employees. Integrating any business, product or technology we acquire could be expensive and time consuming, disrupt our ongoing business and distract our management. If we are unable to integrate any acquired businesses, products or technologies effectively, our business will suffer. In addition, any amortization or charges resulting from acquisitions could harm our operating results. Our FM products have one competitor who, if more successful at commercializing its product, may cause us to lose market share which would adversely impact our business. Our FM products compete with the products of Radi Medical Systems AB, a privately-held company based in Sweden. As Radi is a privately-held company without any public reporting obligations, the actual size of the FM market is difficult to ascertain. If we are unable to effectively demonstrate that our products offer greater applicability and enhanced functionality or other benefits compared to products of Radi or future competitors, we could fail to expand or penetrate the existing FM market. Since certain of our current and anticipated products are specifically developed for the FM market, our failure to achieve greater market penetration and market expansion would harm our financial condition and results of operations. If we become profitable, we cannot assure you that our net operating losses will be available to reduce our tax liability. Our ability to use our net operating losses may be limited or reduced. Generally, a change of more than 50 percentage points in the ownership of our shares, by value, over the three-year period ending on the date the shares were acquired constitutes an ownership change and may limit our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards. Furthermore, the number of shares of our common stock issued in our initial public offering and our 32 Table of Contents follow-on offering may be sufficient, taking into account prior or future changes in our ownership over a three-year period, to cause us to undergo an ownership change. As a result, our ability to use our existing net operating losses to offset U.S. taxable income may also become subject to substantial limitations. Further, the amount of our net operating losses could be reduced if any tax deductions taken by us are limited or disallowed by the Internal Revenue Service. All of these limitations could potentially result in increased future tax liability for us. We may require significant additional capital to pursue our growth strategy, and our failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from executing our growth strategy. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and short-term available-for-sale investments, and, if required, the availability of borrowings under our revolving credit facility, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months. However, we may need to obtain additional financing to pursue our business strategy, to respond to new competitive pressures or to act on opportunities to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, products or technologies. The timing and amount of our working capital and capital expenditure requirements may vary significantly depending on numerous factors, including: • market acceptance of our products; • the revenues generated by our products • the need to adapt to changing technologies and technical requirements, and the costs related thereto; • the costs associated with expanding our manufacturing, marketing, sales and distribution efforts; and • the existence and timing of opportunities for expansion, including acquisitions and strategic transactions. If our capital resources are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or to obtain debt financing. The sale of additional equity or debt securities, or the use of our stock in an acquisition or strategic transaction, would result in additional dilution to our stockholders. Additional debt would result in increased expenses and could result in covenants that would restrict our operations. Our significant losses to date may prevent us from obtaining additional funds on favorable terms, if at all. We have not made arrangements to obtain additional financing, and there is no assurance that financing, if required, will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our debt agreements contain terms that place restrictions on the operation of our business, and our failure to comply with these terms could put us in default, which would harm our business and operations. Our debt agreements contain a number of covenants. These covenants limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt and liens; • pay dividends; and • sell or dispose of any of our assets outside the normal course of business. We are also subject to covenants requiring us to meet certain defined profitability goals and to maintain a certain minimum quick ratio. We exceeded the maximum net loss covenant in our revolving credit facility for the quarter ended December 31, 2004, the quarter ended March 31, 2005 and the quarter ended December 31, 2005 and the bank waived the requirement that we comply with this covenant for the quarter ended December 31, 2004, the quarter ended March 31, 2005 and the quarter ended December 31, 2005. We cannot assure you that the bank will waive any requirements under this revolving credit facility in the future. Failure to meet any of these covenants could result in an event of default under our outstanding debt agreements. In the event of a default, our lenders may take one or more of the following actions: • increase our borrowing costs; • further restrict our ability to obtain additional borrowings; 33 Table of Contents • accelerate payment on all amounts outstanding; and • enforce their interests against collateral pledged. If any lender accelerates our debt payments, our assets may not be sufficient to fully pay down our debt. In addition, as we cannot declare dividends or incur additional debt without the written approval from our lenders, our ability to raise additional capital could be severely restricted. Our ability to receive the necessary approvals is largely dependent upon our relationship with our lenders and our performance, and no assurances can be given that we will be able to obtain the necessary approvals in the future. Our inability to raise additional capital could lead to working capital deficits that could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The expense and potential unavailability of insurance coverage for our company, customers or products may have an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. While we currently have insurance for our business, property, directors and officers, and products, insurance is increasingly costly and the scope of coverage is narrower, and we may be required to assume more risk in the future. If we are subject to claims or suffer a loss or damage in excess of our insurance coverage, we will be required to cover the amounts in excess of our insurance limits. If we are subject to claims or suffer a loss or damage that is outside of our insurance coverage, we may incur significant costs associated with loss or damage that could have an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Furthermore, any claims made on our insurance policies may impact our ability to obtain or maintain insurance coverage at reasonable costs or at all. We do not have the financial resources to self-insure, and it is unlikely that we will have these financial resources in the foreseeable future. We have product liability insurance that covers our products and business operation, but we may need to increase and expand this coverage commensurate with our expanding business. Any product liability claims brought against us, with or without merit, could result in: • substantial costs of related litigation or regulatory action; • substantial monetary penalties or awards; • decreased demand for our products; • reduced revenue or market penetration; • injury to our reputation; • withdrawal of clinical study participants; • an inability to establish new strategic relationships; • increased product liability insurance rates; and • prevention of securing continuing coverage. Some of our customers and prospective customers may have difficulty in procuring or maintaining liability insurance to cover their operation and use of our products. Medical malpractice carriers are withdrawing coverage in certain regions or substantially increasing premiums. If this trend continues or worsens, our customers may discontinue using our products and potential customers may opt against purchasing our products due to the cost or inability to procure insurance coverage. Risks Related to Government Regulation If we fail to obtain, or experience significant delays in obtaining, regulatory clearances or approvals for our products or product enhancements, our ability to commercially distribute and market our products could suffer. 34 Table of Contents Our products are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and numerous other Federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. Our failure to comply with such regulations could lead to the imposition of injunctions, suspensions or loss of regulatory clearances or approvals, product recalls, termination of distribution, product seizures or civil penalties. In the most egregious cases, criminal sanctions or closure of our manufacturing facilities are possible. The process of obtaining regulatory authorizations to market a medical device, particularly from the FDA, can be costly and time consuming, and there can be no assurance that such authorizations will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. In particular, the FDA permits commercial distribution of a new medical device only after the device has received 510(k) clearance or is the subject of an approved pre-market approval, or PMA, application. The FDA will clear marketing of a medical device through the 510(k) process if it is demonstrated that the new product is substantially equivalent to other 510(k)-cleared products. The PMA approval process is more costly, lengthy and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process. Introduction to the market of products we develop that require regulatory clearance or approval may be delayed. In addition, because we cannot assure you that any new products or any product enhancements we develop will be subject to the shorter 510(k) clearance process, the regulatory approval process for our products or product enhancements may take significantly longer than anticipated. There is no assurance that the FDA will not require that a new product or product enhancement go through the lengthy and expensive PMA approval process. To date, all of our products have been cleared through the 510(k) process. We have no experience in obtaining PMA approvals. In the 27 member states of the European Union, or E.U., there is a consolidated system for the authorization of medical devices. The system of regulating medical devices operates by way of a certification for each medical device. Each certificated device is marked with a CE mark which shows that the device has a Certificat de Conformité . There are national bodies, known as Competent Authorities, in each member state that oversee the implementation of the E.U. Medical Device Directive within their jurisdiction. The means for achieving the requirements for a CE mark vary according to the nature of the device. Under the requirements of E.U. member states, our products are required to be assessed by a Notified Body. If a Notified Body of one member state has issued a Certificat de Conformité , the device can be sold throughout the European Union without further conformance tests being required in other member states. Our products, including their design and manufacture, have been certified by the British Standards Institute, or BSI, in the United Kingdom as being compliant with the requirements of E.U. law. Consequently, we are entitled to affix a CE mark to our products and their packaging and this gives us the right to sell them in Europe. Foreign governmental authorities that regulate the manufacture and sale of medical devices have become increasingly stringent, and to the extent we continue to market and sell our products in foreign countries, we will be subject to rigorous regulation in the future. In such circumstances, we would rely significantly on our distributors to comply with the varying regulations, and any failures on their part could result in restrictions on the sale of our products in foreign countries. We have, but are not currently conducting clinical studies with some of our products under an investigational device exemption. Clinical studies must be conducted in compliance with regulations of the FDA and those of regulatory agencies in other countries in which we conduct clinical studies. The data collected from these clinical studies will ultimately be used to support market clearance for these products. There is no assurance that U.S. or foreign regulatory bodies will accept the data from these clinical studies or that they will ultimately allow market clearance or approval for these products. Regulatory delays or failures to obtain clearances and approvals could disrupt our business, harm our reputation and adversely affect our sales. Modifications to our products may require new regulatory clearances or approvals or may require us to recall or cease marketing our products until clearances are obtained. Modifications to our products may require new 510(k) clearances or PMA approvals or require us to recall or cease marketing the modified devices until these clearances or approvals are obtained. The FDA requires device manufacturers to initially make and document a determination of whether or not a modification requires a new approval, supplement or clearance. A manufacturer may determine that a modification could not significantly affect safety or efficacy and does not represent a major change in its intended use, so that no new 510(k) is necessary. However, the FDA can review a manufacturer’s decision and may disagree. The FDA may also on its own initiative determine that a new clearance or approval is required. We have made modifications to our products in the past and may make additional modifications in the future that we believe do not or will not require additional clearances or approvals. If the FDA disagrees and requires new clearances or approvals for the modifications, we may be required 35 Table of Contents to recall and to stop marketing our products as modified, which could require us to redesign our products and harm our operating results. In these circumstances, we may be subject to significant enforcement actions. If a manufacturer determines that a modification to an FDA-cleared device could significantly affect its safety or efficacy, or would constitute a major change in its intended use, then the manufacturer must file for a new 510(k) clearance or possibly a PMA approval. Where we determine that modifications to our products require a new 510(k) clearance or PMA approval, we may not be able to obtain those additional clearances or approvals for the modifications or additional indications in a timely manner, or at all. For those products sold in the European Union, we must notify BSI, our E.U. Notified Body, if significant changes are made to the products or if there are substantial changes to our quality assurance systems affecting those products. Delays in obtaining required future clearances or approvals would adversely affect our ability to introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner, which in turn would harm our future growth. If we fail to adequately manage our regulatory responsibilities following the Japanese regulatory approvals, our ability to sell our IVUS products in Japan would be impaired. We currently market our IVUS products in Japan under a regulatory approval known as a shonin. Shonins for medical devices are issued by Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare to a Marketing Authorization Holder, or MAH, who thereafter holds the shonins for, or possesses regulatory approval permitting the import of such devices into Japan. The shonins for our IVUS products were previously held by Fukuda Denshi, the MAH for our IVUS products, who acted as our importer and one of our Japanese distributors and has been responsible for our regulatory compliance in Japan. Until June 1, 2006, we did not have the authority to import or sell our IVUS products directly in Japan, and we were dependent on Fukuda Denshi to do so. Fukuda Denshi transferred the shonins for our IVUS products to us on June 1, 2006. Due to the transfer of the shonins, responsibility for Japanese regulatory filings and future compliance resides with us. There is a risk that the transfer of the shonins and regulatory responsibility will lead to disruption or lack of coordination in our ongoing compliance activities in Japan. As the holder of the shonins, we have the authority to import and sell our IVUS products but are subject to greater scrutiny. As such, we have to dedicate greater internal resources to direct regulatory compliance in Japan. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to adequately meet the increased regulatory responsibilities. Non-compliance with Japanese regulations may result in action to prohibit further importation and sale of our products in Japan, a significant market for our products. As holder of the shonins, we are required to import our products directly through our Japanese subsidiary and sell to our distributors from our subsidiary. At present, we do not have the capabilities to support direct importation and sales of products to our distributors. As a result, we have retained a third party to provide this support. We have limited operating history with this third party and cannot guarantee that it or any other party will adequately support importation and sales of products to our distributors. If we cannot establish the infrastructure to import our products or if support is not adequately provided by a third party, our ability to import and sell our products in Japan would be impaired. If we are unable to sell our IVUS products in Japan, we will lose a significant part of our annual revenues, and our business will be substantially impacted. Changes in the Japanese regulatory requirements for medical devices could impact our ability to market our products in Japan and subject us to fines, penalties or other sanctions. In April 2005, Japan changed the law regarding medical device approvals to require that shonins include additional information beyond what had been required in the past, including information about manufacturing processes, shipping and other raw materials used. Companies are not required by the revised law to withdraw their existing shonins, and the revised law states that shonins approved under the prior law will still be considered valid. However, importers marketing products in Japan must update their shonins on a five-year cycle, and the updates are expected to include the additional information required by the revised law. These new regulations increase the regulatory and quality assurance requirements for both our manufacturing facilities and our efforts in obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals in Japan. While parts of the new regulations are still being defined, we expect that the new regulations may result in higher costs and delays in securing approval to market our products in Japan. We expect to file new shonin applications for our IVUS catheters and our IVUS IVG consoles in 2007, although we are not required under the Japanese regulatory laws to do so until 2010 and we may decide to file such new shonin applications at a time later than 2007, if that is deemed advantageous. This new filing will comply with the new 36 Table of Contents law which encompasses design, manufacturing, shipping and quality processes. In connection with the new law, the Japanese government has prepared new guidance documents, including one document that addresses raw materials, that, along with the new law, greatly expand the required content of the product approval application from the prior law. With the existing shonins, we relied on Fukuda Denshi’s regulatory expertise that the product approval applications appropriately reflected our devices and therefore were in compliance with the law at the time as well as its assessment regarding continuing compliance with the law over the years. We are now the MAH for our IVUS products and have full responsibility for their continued legal compliance in Japan. We cannot guarantee that the Japanese regulatory authorities will not take a different view of compliance with the existing shonins and conclude that because the new laws require inclusion of new information, we must cease marketing or even recall our IVUS catheters until we have updated, and received approval of, our shonin to include the additional information required by the new law. Alternatively, the Japanese regulatory authorities could disagree with our distributor’s past conclusions and determine that we should have disclosed this information in the earlier shonins that were filed under prior law, and they could require us to cease marketing, recall the product or impose other regulatory penalties. In the event that the Japanese regulatory authorities come to such a conclusion and take corrective action, our business will suffer from lost revenue, lost reputation and lost market share. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation or ISO Quality Management Systems, manufacturing of our products could be negatively impacted and sales of our products could suffer. Our manufacturing processes and those of our suppliers are required to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or QSR, which covers the procedures and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of our products. We are also subject to similar state and foreign requirements and licenses, known as ISO Quality Management Systems, or QMS. In addition, we must engage in extensive recordkeeping and reporting and must make available our manufacturing facilities and records for periodic inspections by governmental agencies, including the FDA, state authorities and comparable foreign agencies. If we fail to comply with the QSR or QMS, our operations could be disrupted and our manufacturing interrupted. Failure to take adequate corrective action in response to an adverse Quality System inspection could result in, among other things, a shut-down of our manufacturing operations, significant fines, suspension of marketing clearances and approvals, seizures or recalls of our devices, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which would cause our business to suffer. Furthermore, our key component suppliers may not currently be or may not continue to be in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements, which may result in manufacturing delays for our products and cause our revenue to decline. We were inspected by the FDA in 2004, and two observations were noted, namely that the FDA’s analysis of field service reports indicated that our procedures were inadequate in identifying existing and potential causes of nonconforming products and other quality problems, and that our service procedures were not completed and implemented. We addressed these two observations by updating several procedures to include field service reports as another source of quality data to identify existing and potential causes of nonconforming products, and we also completed the formal execution of service procedures. The FDA acknowledged receipt of our response detailing how we addressed these two observations, and we have received no additional follow-up or any further inspections. We were inspected by the FDA in April 2006, and three observations were noted. These included incomplete documentation of the justification for segregating two lots of nonconforming product in 2004, incomplete procedures and records for equipment cleaning and maintenance, and incomplete verification of corrective and preventive actions taken in certain instances. We have responded to these observations, and believe that we have adequately completed all necessary evaluation of, and implementation of adjustments to, the affected processes. The FDA has acknowledged our response to the audit and has indicated that the corrective actions should adequately address the inspectional observations. Inspections by the E.U. Notified Body are conducted annually or biannually and the E.U. Notified Body also has the right to make unannounced visits to our manufacturing facility. We were inspected by the E.U. Notified Body in December 2005, which resulted in no major non-conformities and eight minor non-conformities in the areas of servicing, corrective action, contract review, internal audits, record retention and design input. Since there were no major non-conformities, the E.U. Notified Body granted us ISO 13485:2003 certification. More recently, we were 37 Table of Contents inspected by the E.U. Notified Body in February 2007. The inspection resulted in no major nonconformities and six minor nonconformities in the areas of documentation, corrective action and servicing. In March 2007, we were inspected by the E.U. Notified Body’s Microbiologist and no nonconformities were found. As there were no major nonconformities, the E.U. Notified Body granted us continued ISO 13485:2003 certification, which enables us to design, develop, manufacture and distribute ultrasonic imaging catheters, intravascular pressure and flow measuring guide wires and electronic systems, guide wires and patient cables. We believe that we have taken sufficient corrective actions to address the observations and non-conformities noted by the FDA and the E.U. Notified Body, but there can be no assurance that our actions will satisfy the FDA and the E.U. Notified Body. The FDA and the E.U. Notified Body may impose additional inspections or audits at any time and may conclude that our quality system is improperly validated or not otherwise in compliance with applicable regulations. Such findings potentially could disrupt our business, harm our reputation and adversely affect our sales. Our products may in the future be subject to product recalls that could harm our reputation, business and financial results. The FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities have the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. In the case of the FDA, the authority to require a recall must be based on an FDA finding that there is a reasonable probability that the device would cause serious adverse health consequences or death. In addition, foreign governmental bodies have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. Manufacturers may, under their own initiative, recall a product if any material deficiency in a device is found. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us or one of our distributors could occur as a result of component failures, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects or other deficiencies and issues. Recalls of any of our products would divert managerial and financial resources, and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A recall announcement would harm our reputation with customers, affect revenues and negatively affect our stock price. If our products, or malfunction of our products, cause or contribute to death or serious injury, we will be subject to medical device reporting regulations, which can result in voluntary corrective actions or agency enforcement actions. Under the FDA medical device reporting regulations, medical device manufacturers are required to report to the FDA information that a device has or may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or has or may have a malfunction that would likely cause or contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. All manufacturers placing medical devices on the market in the European Union are legally bound to report any serious or potentially serious incidents involving devices they produce or sell to the Competent Authority in whose jurisdiction the incident occurred. Were this to happen to us, the relevant Competent Authority would file an initial report, and there would then be a further inspection or assessment if there are particular issues. This would be carried out either by the Competent Authority or it could require that the BSI, as the Notified Body, carry out the inspection or assessment. Malfunction of our products, such as the separation of catheter tips during procedures, could result in future voluntary corrective actions, such as recalls or customer notifications, or agency action, such as inspection or enforcement action. Such malfunctions have been reported to us on 22 occasions since July 2003. No injury to patients resulted from any of these incidents, but we can make no assurance that any future incident would not result in harm to patients. Upon learning of the malfunctions, we have taken all actions required by law and notified the appropriate regulatory authorities, including the FDA. We investigated each of the incidents, and found no evidence that the catheters were manufactured incorrectly. Product mishandling may contribute to or cause a separation or other product malfunction. Our product labeling includes a warning statement to avoid pulling the catheter if resistance is felt, but we can make no assurance that our products will be handled properly. While we do not believe there was any deficiency in any product, we cannot guarantee that malfunctions will not occur in the future. If they do occur, we may elect to take voluntary corrective action, and we may be subject to involuntary corrective action such as notification, fines, seizures or recalls. If someone is harmed by a malfunction or by product mishandling, we may be subject to product liability claims. Any corrective action, whether voluntary or involuntary, as well as defending ourselves in a lawsuit, will require the dedication of our time and capital, distract management from operating our business, and may harm our reputation and financial results. 38 Table of Contents Failure to obtain regulatory approval in additional foreign jurisdictions will prevent us from expanding the commercialization of our products abroad. We intend to market our products in a number of international markets. Although certain of our IVUS products have been approved for commercialization in Japan and in the European Union, in order to market our products in other foreign jurisdictions, we have had to, and will need to in the future, obtain separate regulatory approvals. The approval procedure varies among jurisdictions and can involve substantial additional testing. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign jurisdictions or by the FDA. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval in addition to other risks. In addition, the time required to obtain foreign approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval, and we may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any foreign market other than in the European Union and Japan. We depend on one distributor to hold the shonins related to our FM products imported into Japan and for ongoing regulatory compliance, and difficulties involving this relationship will impair our ability to sell our FM products in Japan. Goodman currently distributes our FM products in Japan and is responsible for Japanese regulatory compliance in relation to these products, including obtaining and maintaining the applicable shonins and ensuring ongoing compliance with Japanese laws and regulations relating to importation and sale. We have neither the capability nor the authority to import or sell our FM products in Japan and are dependent on Goodman to do so. Sales of our FM products in Japan accounted for 15.6% of our FM product revenues and 1.8% of our total revenues in 2006, 11.9% of our FM product revenues and 1.6% of our total revenues in fiscal 2005, and 15.6% of our FM product revenues and 3.0% of our total revenues in fiscal 2004. Our distribution relationship with Goodman is based on an agreement executed in 1994. By its terms, this agreement expired in 1999 unless extended by mutual written agreement. No formal amendment to the agreement has extended its terms. However, Goodman and we have continued to operate in accordance with its terms, including the adoption of new pricing exhibits, placement and fulfillment of orders, and payment of invoices, since we acquired certain FM assets in 2003. If Goodman fails to maintain regulatory compliance related to our FM products, we will be unable to sell our FM products in Japan. Furthermore, if Goodman successfully argues that it is under no obligation to distribute our FM products and ceases to distribute our FM products, we will no longer be able to sell our FM products in Japan. We may be subject to Federal, state and foreign healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations and other regulatory reforms, and a finding of failure to comply with such laws, regulations and reforms could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our operations may be directly or indirectly affected by various broad Federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws. These include the Federal anti-kickback statute, which prohibits any person from knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration, directly or indirectly, in return for or to induce the referring, ordering, leasing, purchasing or arranging for or recommending the ordering, purchasing or leasing of an item or service, for which payment may be made under Federal healthcare programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The Federal anti-kickback statute is very broad in scope, and many of its provisions have not been uniformly or definitively interpreted by existing case law or regulations. In addition, many states have adopted laws similar to the Federal anti-kickback statute, and some of these laws are broader than that statute in that their prohibitions are not limited to items or services paid for by a Federal healthcare program but, instead, apply regardless of the source of payment. Our financial relationships with healthcare providers and others who provide products or services to Federal healthcare program beneficiaries or are in a position directly or indirectly to recommend or arrange for use of our products are potentially governed by the Federal anti-kickback statute and similar state laws. If our past or present operations, including our consulting arrangements with physicians who use our products, are found to be in violation of these laws, we or our officers may be subject to civil or criminal penalties, including large monetary penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment and exclusion from Medicare and Medicaid program participation. In connection with their services, some physicians serve as consultants and have in the past been awarded options to purchase our common stock. In the aggregate, these securities represent options to purchase 118,179 shares of our common stock 39 Table of Contents as of December 31, 2006. Additionally, some are paid consulting fees or reimbursed for expenses. If enforcement action were to occur, our business and financial condition would be harmed. In addition, Federal and state authorities and private whistleblower plaintiffs recently have brought actions against manufacturers alleging that the manufacturers’ activities constituted aiding and abetting healthcare providers in the submission of false claims, or alleging that the manufacturers themselves made false or misleading statements to the Federal government. Such investigations or litigation could be time-consuming and costly to us and could divert management’s attention from operating our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, if our activities were found to violate Federal or state false claims provisions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We could also be subject to investigation and enforcement activity under Title II of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, which created a new Federal healthcare fraud statute that prohibits knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private payors. A violation of this statute is a felony and could result in fines, imprisonment or exclusion from government-sponsored programs. In the United States, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could impact our ability to sell our products profitably. Federal and state lawmakers regularly propose and, at times, enact new legislation establishing significant changes in the healthcare system. We cannot predict whether new Federal legislation will be enacted in the future or the full impact that any such new legislation will have on our business. The potential for adoption of healthcare reform proposals on a state-by-state basis could require us to develop state-specific marketing and sales approaches. In addition, we may experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of our products due to additional legislative proposals or healthcare reform initiatives. Our results of operations and our business could be adversely affected by future healthcare reforms. In the European Union, legislation on inducements offered to physicians and other healthcare workers or hospitals differ from country to country. Breach of the laws relating to such inducements may expose us to the imposition of criminal sanctions. It may also harm our reputation, which could in turn affect sales. If our customers are unable to obtain coverage of or sufficient reimbursement for procedures performed with our products, it is unlikely that our products will be widely used. Successful sales of our products will depend on the availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors. Healthcare providers that purchase medical devices for treatment of their patients generally rely on third-party payors to reimburse all or part of the costs and fees associated with the procedures performed with these devices. Both public and private insurance coverage and reimbursement plans are central to new product acceptance. Customers are unlikely to use our products if they do not receive reimbursement adequate to cover the cost of our products and related procedures. To the extent we sell our products internationally, market acceptance may depend, in part, upon the availability of reimbursement within prevailing healthcare payment systems. Reimbursement and healthcare payment systems in international markets vary significantly by country, and by region in some countries, and include both government-sponsored healthcare and private insurance. We may not obtain international reimbursement approvals in a timely manner, if at all. Our failure to receive international reimbursement approvals would negatively impact market acceptance of our products in the international markets in which those approvals are sought. To date, our products have generally been covered as part of procedures for which reimbursement has been available. However, in the United States, as well as in foreign countries, government-funded or private insurance programs, commonly known as third-party payors, pay the cost of a significant portion of a patient’s medical expenses. No uniform policy of coverage or reimbursement for medical technology exists among all these payors. Therefore, coverage of and reimbursement for medical technology can differ significantly from payor to payor. All third-party reimbursement programs, whether government funded or insured commercially, whether inside the United States or outside, are developing increasingly sophisticated methods of controlling healthcare costs through prospective reimbursement and capitation programs, group purchasing, redesign of benefits, second opinions required prior to major surgery, careful review of bills, encouragement of healthier lifestyles and exploration of more cost-effective methods of delivering healthcare. These types of programs and legislative changes to reimbursement policies could potentially limit the amount which healthcare providers may be willing to pay for medical devices. 40 Table of Contents We believe that future reimbursement may be subject to increased restrictions both in the United States and in international markets. Third-party reimbursement and coverage for our products may not be available or adequate in either the United States or international markets. Future legislation, regulation, coverage or reimbursement policies of third-party payors may adversely affect the growth of the IVUS and FM markets, the demand for our existing products or our products currently under development, and limit our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations could be expensive, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to significant liability. We use hazardous materials in our research and development and manufacturing processes. We are subject to Federal, state and local regulations governing use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and associated waste products. We are currently licensed to handle such materials, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain those licenses in the future or obtain licenses under new regulations if and when they are required by governing authorities. Although we believe our procedures for use, storage, handling and disposing of these materials comply with legally prescribed standards, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from hazardous materials, and we may incur liability as a result of any such contamination or injury. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines, and the liability could exceed our resources and any applicable insurance. We have also incurred and may continue to incur expenses related to compliance with environmental laws. Such future expenses or liability could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, we cannot assure that the cost of compliance with these laws and regulations will not materially increase in the future. The use, misuse or off-label use of our products may result in injuries that lead to product liability suits, which could be costly to our business. Our currently marketed products have been cleared by the FDA for particular indications for the qualitative and quantitative evaluation of the coronary and peripheral vasculature. Our products are also CE marked, licensed in Canada, have approvals in Japan, as well as regulatory approvals in many other countries around the world for specific indications for use. There may be increased risk of injury if physicians attempt to use our products in procedures outside of those indications cleared for use, known as off-label use. Our sales force does not promote our products for off-label uses, and our instructions for use in all markets specify that our products are not intended for use outside of those indications cleared for use. However, we cannot prevent a physician from using our products for off-label applications. Our catheters and guide wires are intended to be single-procedure products. In spite of clear labeling and instructions against reuse, we are aware that certain physicians have elected to reuse our products. Reuse of our catheters and guide wires may increase the risk of product liability claims. Reuse may also subject the party reusing the product to regulatory authority inspection and enforcement action. Physicians may also misuse our product if they are not adequately trained, potentially leading to injury and an increased risk of product liability. If our products are defectively designed, manufactured or labeled, contain defective components or are misused, we may become subject to costly litigation by our customers or their patients. Product liability claims could divert management’s attention from our core business, be expensive to defend and result in sizable damage awards against us. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property and Potential Litigation Our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology through patents and other means is uncertain. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technologies. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, and nondisclosure, confidentiality and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. Our pending U.S. and foreign patent applications may not issue as patents or may not issue in a form that will be advantageous to us. Any patents we have obtained or do obtain may be challenged by re-examination, opposition or other administrative proceeding, or may be challenged in litigation, and such challenges could result in a determination that the patent is invalid. In addition, competitors may be able to design alternative methods or devices that avoid infringement of our patents. To the extent our intellectual property protection offers inadequate 41 Table of Contents protection, or is found to be invalid, we are exposed to a greater risk of direct competition. If our intellectual property does not provide adequate protection against our competitors’ products, our competitive position could be adversely affected, as could our business. Both the patent application process and the process of managing patent disputes can be time consuming and expensive. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In addition to pursuing patents on our technology, we have taken steps to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology by entering into confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants, corporate partners and, when needed, our advisors. Such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements, and we may not be able to prevent such unauthorized disclosure. Monitoring unauthorized disclosure is difficult, and we do not know whether the steps we have taken to prevent such disclosure are, or will be, adequate. In the event a competitor infringes upon our patent or other intellectual property rights, litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against challenge, even if successful, could be expensive and time consuming and could require significant time and attention from our management. We may not have sufficient resources to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend our patents against challenges from others. The medical device industry is characterized by patent litigation, and we could become subject to litigation that could be costly, result in the diversion of our management’s time and efforts, require us to pay damages or prevent us from selling our products. The medical device industry is characterized by extensive litigation and administrative proceedings over patent and other intellectual property rights. Whether or not a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. Our competitors may assert that they own U.S. or foreign patents containing claims that cover our products, their components or the methods we employ in the manufacture or use of our products. In addition, we may become a party to an interference proceeding declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine the priority of invention. Because patent applications can take many years to issue and in many instances at least 18 months to publish, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware, which may later result in issued patents that contain claims that cover our products. There could also be existing patents, of which we are unaware, that contain claims that cover one or more components of our products. As the number of participants in our industry increases, the possibility of patent infringement claims against us also increases. Any interference proceeding, litigation or other assertion of claims against us may cause us to incur substantial costs, could place a significant strain on our financial resources, divert the attention of our management from our core business and harm our reputation. If the relevant patents were upheld as valid and enforceable and we were found to be infringing, we could be required to pay substantial damages and/or royalties and could be prevented from selling our products unless we could obtain a license or were able to redesign our products to avoid infringement. Any such license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. If we fail to obtain any required licenses or make any necessary changes to our products or technologies, we may be unable to make, use, sell or otherwise commercialize one or more of our products. In addition, if we are found to willfully infringe, we could be required to pay treble damages, among other penalties. We are aware of certain third-party U.S. patents related to pressure sensor guide wires and instrumentation. We do not have licenses to these patents nor do we believe that such licenses are required to develop, commercialize or sell our pressure sensor guide wires. However, the owners of these patents may initiate a lawsuit alleging infringement of one or more of these patents. If they do, we may be required to incur substantial costs related to patent litigation, which could place a significant strain on our financial resources and divert the attention of management from our business and harm our reputation. Adverse determinations in such litigation could cause us to redesign or prevent us from manufacturing or selling our pressure sensor guide wires and instrumentation, which would have an adverse effect on our business by limiting our ability to generate revenues through the sale of our FM guide wires. From time to time in the ordinary course of business, we receive letters from third parties advising us of third-party patents that may relate to our business. The letters do not explicitly seek any particular action or relief from us. Although these letters do not threaten legal action, these letters may be deemed to put us on notice that continued operation of our business might infringe intellectual property rights of third parties. We do not believe we are infringing any such third-party rights, and we are unaware of any litigation or other proceedings having been 42 Table of Contents commenced against us asserting such infringement. We cannot assure you that such litigation or other proceedings may not be commenced against us in the future. In November 2003, in partial consideration of our acquisition of certain intellectual property assets, we agreed to assume control of an arbitration being conducted in England for the purpose of construing third-party license rights to our acquired technology pursuant to a license agreement. If the claims were decided against us, we would have to share rights to certain patents and to share information related to certain technological developments. In such circumstances, we would continue to have the right to use the patents unabated in medically invasive procedures, but the other party, or its successor, may have a right to use the technology for all other uses. In the event that the other party, its successor or an acquirer of the technology commercializes the technology in such a way that competes with our products in a non-medically invasive manner, our competitive position may be harmed. Our rights to a worldwide license of certain IVUS patents owned or licensed by Boston Scientific may be challenged. The marketing and sale of our rotational IVUS catheters and pullback products depend on a license to IVUS-related patents owned or licensed by Boston Scientific. Boston Scientific was required to transfer the related intellectual property rights pursuant to a 1995 order of the Federal Trade Commission. We obtained rights to the license in 2003 through our former wholly-owned subsidiary, Pacific Rim Medical Ventures, which merged into us on December 30, 2004. In the event Boston Scientific disputes our rights to the license or seeks to terminate the license, we may be required to expend significant time and resources defending our rights. An adverse determination could cause us to redesign or prevent us from manufacturing or selling our rotational IVUS catheters and pullback products, which would have an adverse effect on our business. Additionally, in the event that the chain of title from the 1995 transfer of rights from Boston Scientific through the 2003 transfer to us is challenged, we may have fewer rights to the technology than our business requires which will negatively impact our ability to continue our development of rotational IVUS catheters and pullback products or subject us to disputes with Boston Scientific or others with respect to the incorporation of intellectual property into our products. Our VH IVUS business depends on a license from The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, the loss of which would severely impact our business. The marketing and sale of our VH IVUS functionality for IVUS depends on an exclusive license to patents owned by The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, the license to which we obtained in April 2002. We are aware that maintenance of the license depends upon certain provisions being met by us including payment of royalties, commercialization of the licensed technology and obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals. If The Cleveland Clinic Foundation were to claim that we committed material breach or default of these provisions and we were not able to cure such breach or default, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation would have a right to terminate the agreement. The loss of the rights granted under the agreement could require us to redesign our VH IVUS functionality or prevent us from manufacturing or selling our IVUS products containing VH IVUS in countries covered by these patents. In addition, our exclusive license shall become non-exclusive if we fail to obtain regulatory clearances or approvals to commercialize the licensed technology within a proscribed time period. The cost of redesigning or inability to sell our VH IVUS products will have a negative impact on our ability to grow our business and may cause a drop in our stock price. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We expect that the price of our common stock will fluctuate substantially. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuation. Factors that could cause volatility in the market price of our common stock include the following: • changes in earnings estimates, investors’ perceptions, recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to achieve analysts’ earning estimates; • quarterly variations in our or our competitors’ results of operations; • changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory clearance or approvals; 43 Table of Contents • changes in availability of third-party reimbursement in the United States or other countries; • the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • announcements related to patents issued to us or our competitors and to litigation; • sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers and directors; and • general market conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. These factors may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Future equity issuances or a sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline. On December 31, 2006, the holders of up to 17,776,680 shares of our common stock may require us, subject to certain conditions, to file a registration statement covering those shares. If any of these stockholders cause a large number of securities to be sold in the public market, the sales could reduce our stock price. In addition, sales of these shares could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem reasonable or appropriate. Because we may need to raise additional capital in the future to continue to expand our business and develop new products, among other things, we may conduct additional equity offerings. These future equity issuances, together with any additional shares issued in connection with acquisitions, will result in further dilution to investors. As of December 31, 2006, options to purchase 4,672,408 shares of our common stock were outstanding under our equity compensation plans. No prediction can be made regarding the effect that future sales of shares of our common stock will have on the market price of shares. Our directors, officers and principal stockholders have significant voting power and may take actions that may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders. On December 31, 2006, our directors, officers and principal stockholders each holding more than 5% of our common stock collectively control 56.1% of our outstanding common stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by such persons. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, would be able to control the management and affairs of our company and most matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, might adversely affect the market price of our common stock and may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders. Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law could discourage a takeover. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a takeover. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors; • advance notice requirements to stockholders for matters to be brought at stockholder meetings; • a supermajority stockholder vote requirement for amending certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws; and • the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. We are also subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law that, in general, prohibit any business combination or merger with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock unless 44 Table of Contents the holder’s acquisition of our stock was approved in advance by our board of directors. These provisions might discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or a change in our management. The existence of these provisions could adversely affect the voting power of holders of common stock and limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We have adopted a stockholder rights plan that may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control and make any future unsolicited acquisition attempt more difficult. Under the rights plan: • the rights will become exercisable only upon the occurrence of certain events specified in the plan, including the acquisition of 20% of our outstanding common stock by a person or group, with limited exceptions; • each right will entitle the holder, other than an acquiring person, to acquire shares of our common stock at a discount to the then prevailing market price; • our board of directors may redeem outstanding rights at any time prior to a person becoming an acquiring person at a minimal price per right; and • prior to a person becoming an acquiring person, the terms of the rights may be amended by our board of directors without the approval of the holders of the rights. Our costs have increased significantly as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to comply with public company regulations. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and The NASDAQ Global Market, have imposed various new requirements on public companies, including changes in corporate governance practices. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls for financial reporting. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight are required. Our management and other personnel now need to devote a substantial amount of time to these new requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, commencing in fiscal 2007, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial expense and expend significant management efforts. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we identify deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by The NASDAQ Global Market, SEC or other regulatory authorities. We have not paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends in the future. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain all future earnings for the operation and expansion of our business and, therefore, do not anticipate declaring or paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, capital requirements, financial condition, prospects, contractual arrangements, any limitations on payments of dividends present in our current and future debt agreements, and other factors our board of directors may deem relevant. We are subject to covenants under our debt arrangements that place restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. If we do not pay dividends, a return on your investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. 45 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 