Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before purchasing our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are unaware, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also become important factors that affect us. There may be risks that a particular investor views differently from us, and our analysis of the risks we face might be wrong. If any of the risks that we face actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected and could differ materially from any possible results suggested by any forward-looking statements that we have made or might make. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose some or all of your investment. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Risks relating to our business and industry Changes to the Russian law "On Advertising" have fundamentally changed the way in which we sell advertising, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Effective January 2011, an amendment to the Federal Law "On Advertising" came into force that prohibits TV broadcasters from signing agency agreements with media sales houses that hold a TV advertising market share greater than 35%. The Russian Federal Anti-monopoly Service has the authority to seek the termination of agreements that allegedly violate these provisions. Video International, the media sales house that historically sold all of our national advertising and substantially all of our regional advertising, in previous years controlled more than 35% of the Russian TV advertising market. As a result of this amendment, the structure of the Russian TV advertising market has changed. In response to these developments, in September 2010 we established our own sales house, Closed Joint Stock Company "EvereST-S", a wholly owned subsidiary of CTC Network. Our sales house now acts as the exclusive advertising sales agent for all of our Russian networks and Television Station Groups in respect of Moscow-based clients. In order to benefit from our long-term cooperation with Video International and to successfully support our own advertising sales we have entered into an agreement with Video International to govern our current cooperation. Under the terms of the agreement, our sales house received a license to use Video International group's proprietary advertising software package (including modules such as Automated System for the Placement of Television Advertising, Automated Document Management System, and Media Calculator). In addition, the Video International group provides a number of support services related to maintenance of the software package, such as technical support and consulting along with integration of the software; as well as Russian advertising market analytical services including forecasts, market surveys and research. In particular, Video International group provides detailed analysis of the Russian television market, including audience share and advertising market dynamics. Under the terms of this agreement, we pay Video International both fixed license fees for the use of the software package and variable service fees, which depend on the amount of services rendered. The aggregate amount of compensation payable is calculated on the basis of our Russian channels' television advertising revenues (including network revenues and revenues from regional advertising placed by Moscow-based clients, but excluding revenues from social advertising sponsorship revenues, as well as placement by Video International of national advertising by certain of its affiliates). We have also agreed to exclude revenues from the airing of federal and regional sponsorship advertising from 17 Table of Contents the calculation of Video International's compensation for the period from August 1, 2011 to December 31, 2011. Under these arrangements, overall compensation payable to Video International approximated 11% of our Russian channels' advertising revenues in 2011. We expect that the overall compensation payable to Video International annually will be in the range of 10% to 12% of our Russian channels' advertising revenues going forward. The parties have also agreed that the compensation payable to Video International under the new agreement may be decreased by the mutual consent of the parties on an annual basis. In addition to the agreement between our sales house and Video International described above, a number of our owned-and-operated regional stations have also signed definitive agency agreements with local subsidiaries of Video International with respect to advertising sales to local clients. Under the terms of such agreements, we pay Video International a commission fee set as a percentage of the actual gross revenues received from advertising sales by the relevant local station. The aggregate headline commission payable to Video International under such agreements is 12% of the regional station's total annual gross advertising revenues, including VAT. It has also been agreed by the parties that the commission payable to Video International under those agreements may be subject to reduction upon mutual consent of the parties on an annual basis. In order to support our sales function, we have substantially increased the size of our internal sales force in the past 18 months, and have implemented a range of new functions and systems. Although the new sales house has been operational for more than one year and proved to be effective to date, we may be unsuccessful in maintaining these functions, and may be unable to continue to generate the same advertising volumes and revenues or margins under the current model of advertising sales as we did in the past. If we encounter difficulties in maintaining our sales house function, our advertising sales and revenues could suffer, and as a consequence our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. See "Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Our Agreements with Video International." We understand that Telcrest Investments Limited, one of our principal stockholders, has beneficial owners with indirect significant minority equity interests in Video International. Telcrest became one of our principal stockholders subsequent to the negotiation of our current principal agreements with Video International. We believe that the terms of Video International contract are generally consistent with other existing arrangements between Video International and third parties based the same scope of services. A reduction in our audience shares and ratings would likely result in a reduction in our advertising revenues. The level of advertising revenues that we receive is directly tied to our audience shares and ratings. If our audience shares or ratings were to fall as a result, for example, of competitive pressures, the underperformance of key programs, the failure to renew licenses, or a change in the method of measuring television audiences, this would likely result in a decrease in our advertising revenues, which could be material. Our ability to attract and retain viewers depends primarily on our success in offering programming that appeals to our target audiences. Russian viewer preferences have been changing in recent years, with increasing demand for programming produced in Russia. There is currently a relatively limited supply of Russian-produced programming and strong competition among Russian networks and channels for such programming and Russian production talent, as well as for popular foreign programming. In particular, from time to time we air one or two series during primetime that contribute disproportionately to our overall audience share, resulting in an overall audience share that we may not be able to sustain once that series is discontinued or loses popularity. Moreover, because we continue to rely on third-party production companies for a large portion of our programming and our 18 Table of Contents programming library is not as extensive as those of some of our competitors, we may be unable to quickly substitute new programming for underperforming programming. For example, in 2011, the target audience share of the CTC channel was below the anticipated audience share and below the audience share for 2010, due to increased competition from other television channels and relative underperformance of series launched during primetime. This decrease in audience share led to a lower than initially anticipated forecast for the growth in advertising sales for 2011. In addition, in the third quarter we re-launched our DTV network under the new brand, "Peretz". If this rebranding is unsuccessful, the audience share of this channel could be adversely affected. If we are unable to produce or secure a steady supply of high-quality programming, particularly in the key timeslots, or if we fail to anticipate, identify or react appropriately to changes in Russian viewer tastes by providing appropriate programming, our overall audience shares could be negatively affected, which would adversely affect our advertising revenues. Moreover, if any of the programming we produce, commission or license does not achieve the audience share levels we anticipate, we may be required to write-off all or a portion of the carrying cost of such programming, and we could be forced to broadcast more expensive programming to maintain audience share, either of which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We derive almost all of our revenues from the sale of advertising, which is sensitive to broader economic conditions. Our revenues may substantially decrease if the economic environment deteriorates in Russia or other CIS countries in which we operate. We generate substantially all of our revenues from advertising. In general, expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions and buying patterns. Since the introduction of commercial television advertising in Russia following the fall of the Soviet Union, advertising spending has fluctuated substantially, generally increasing during periods of economic growth and decreasing during downturns. Beginning in the second half of 2008, Russia, like many other countries, experienced economic instability, characterized by a steep decline in the value of shares traded on its stock exchanges, devaluation of its currency, capital flight and a decline in gross domestic product. Additionally, because Russia produces and exports large amounts of oil and gas, its economy is particularly vulnerable to fluctuations in the price of oil and gas on the world market. Recent decreases in international oil prices have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the Russian economy. Total television advertising spending in Russia was adversely affected by this economic instability and, as a result, our operating results for 2009 were materially adversely affected. Like Russia, Kazakhstan has also experienced economic instability. In the second half of 2011, some large advertisers reduced their initially planned advertising expenditures for 2011. Though the overall Russian television advertising spending increased in 2011 compared to 2010, and the advertising market in 2011 is larger than in 2010, and we anticipate that the advertising market in 2012 will be higher than in 2011, we anticipate that such growth will be moderate. If overall spending by these companies in the Russian television advertising market falls substantially in 2012 or future periods, our advertising revenues may be significantly reduced, materially adversely affecting our results of operations. Changes in the method of measuring television audiences have at times in the past resulted, and may again in the future result, in decreases in our audience share and ratings. The system of audience measurement in Russia, currently run by TNS Russia, has evolved as the advertising market has matured and in response to changing Russian demographics. TNS Russia currently weights the panel of measured cities based on broadcasters' technical penetration in a group of 121 cities. Our audience share could be negatively affected if we were to lose 19 Table of Contents an affiliate in one of the cities in that, or if our technical penetration in that group of cities were to be lower than our average technical penetration. In 2010, the size of the panel itself was increased from 65 to 72 cities. In addition, in 2010 TNS Russia made changes to the relative weighting of the cities in the panel, which became effective in 2011. This re-weighting resulted in the impairment of some of our affected broadcasting licenses on a stand-alone basis, recognized in 2009. See "—A significant portion of our total assets are intangibles assets with indefinite lives that we do not amortize. If events or changes in circumstances reduce the fair value of those assets, we may be required to record impairment losses that could materially adversely impact our net income." In June 2011, TNS Russia announced the increase in the size of the panel from 72 to 74 cities, which will result in re-weighting of other cities in the panel. These changes are effective from January 1, 2013. When changes to the system of audience measurement occur, we attempt to take steps when possible in respect of our programming and distribution to counteract the effects of such changes. We cannot ensure you that these steps will be adequate or effective, or that any further changes in the measurement system will not result in further decreases in our audience shares and, as a result, a material decrease in our advertising revenues. We may face additional expenditures and increased competition in connection with the planned transition from analog to digital broadcasting in Russia. In late 2009, the Russian government announced plans to introduce digital broadcasting throughout Russia by 2015. The specific terms of the transition are not yet fully known. We have begun the process of tendering for digital broadcasting licenses, but the timing of the results of this process is not known. Depending on the terms of the transition, we may face competition from other parties for digital frequencies or other access, and we may also face additional costs in connection with requirements for new equipment and added staffing. We may also face increased competition from other broadcasters that may make the transition to digital broadcasting more quickly or efficiently than we do, or that are more successful in taking advantage of the new digital platform to introduce a better programming offering. A significant portion of our total assets are intangible assets with indefinite lives that we do not amortize. If events or changes in circumstances reduce the fair value of those assets, we may be required to record impairment losses that could materially adversely impact our net income. We have intangible assets recorded on our consolidated balance sheet, such as broadcasting licenses, that have indefinite lives and represent a significant portion of our total assets. Because these assets have indefinite lives, we do not amortize them but instead perform impairment tests on them annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. If we determine that our estimate of the current value of an asset is below the recorded value of that asset on our balance sheet, we record an impairment loss for the difference. The economic slowdown experienced in the second half of 2011, in both the European and global economies, has resulted in reduced advertiser demand. The instability in the macroeconomic environment adversely affected our expectation on the total advertising market in medium-term, and in turn, affected the fair values of certain of the Company's assets as of December 31, 2011. As of the year ended December 31, 2011, we recorded non-cash impairment losses totaling $106.4 million related to certain intangible assets and goodwill. Of the total impairment losses, $23.6 million related to the impairment of certain broadcasting licenses and $71.7 million related to impairment of Peretz goodwill, recorded in connection with the acquisition of DTV Group in 2008 (effective October 2011 operating 20 Table of Contents under "Peretz" brand). In addition, of the total impairment losses, $11.1 million related to impairment of DTV trade name as result of the re-branding of the channel. We consider all current information in respect of determining the need for, or calculating, any impairment loss; however, future changes in events or circumstances, such as a continuation or worsening of the current economic instability, decreases in our audience shares or ratings, increased competition from cable providers or others, or changes in the audience measurement system, could result in decreases in the fair value of our long-lived assets and require us to record additional impairment losses that could have a material adverse impact on our net income. See "Financial Statements—Note 2, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies—Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets Impairment Tests, and—Note 10, Impairment loss". In addition, the Russian government has announced plans to introduce digital broadcasting in various stages throughout Russia. The specific terms of the transition have not yet been fully determined. The transition to digital broadcasting also could adversely impact our operations or the value of our broadcasting licenses and goodwill. Recent declines in the value of the Russian ruble against the US dollar have negatively impacted our reported revenues and operating results. If the ruble depreciates further against the US dollar, our revenues and our operating results, both as reported in US dollars, will be adversely affected. Although our reporting currency is the US dollar, we generate almost all of our revenues through the sale of advertising, which in Russia is sold primarily in rubles. The ruble is also the functional currency of our principal operating subsidiaries. As a result, our reported revenues and results of operations are impacted by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the US dollar and the Russian ruble. Additionally, given that substantially all of our revenues are generated in rubles, we face the exchange rate risk relating to payments that we must make in currencies other than the ruble. We generally pay for non-Russian produced programming in US dollars. In 2009 and 2010, the Russian ruble depreciated approximately 2.9% and 1%, respectively, against the US dollar. In 2011, the Russian ruble depreciated against the US dollar by 5.3%, but was on average 3% higher than the average value of the Russian ruble compared to the US dollar during 2010. If the ruble depreciates further against the US dollar, our revenues and operating results for 2012 or future periods, as reported in US dollars, will be adversely affected. Restrictions on direct or indirect foreign ownership of Russian television companies could limit our ability to grow our business through acquisitions. In May 2008, the law "On foreign investments in economic entities that have strategic importance for defense and security of the state" (the "Ownership Law") came into effect in Russia. The Ownership Law imposes restrictions on direct or indirect non-Russian ownership in "strategically important" industries, including television broadcasters that broadcast to more than 50% of the population of a relevant constituent entity of the Russian Federation. Among other things, the Ownership Law requires prior approval from the Commission for Control Over Foreign Investments, and potentially from the Federal Security Bureau, for the acquisition by a non-Russian entity of an interest above a certain ownership threshold in a company operating in a strategically significant sector. We understand that such approval generally requires at least six months. The Ownership Law contains a "grandfather" provision with respect to pre-existing holdings in affected companies that requires notification of such pre-existing holdings but does not have approval requirement. We therefore believe that neither CTC Media's pre-existing ownership of its Russian operating subsidiaries, nor the pre-existing ownership of shares of CTC Media by non-Russian stockholders, violates the Ownership Law or requires any approval. We do believe, however, that we will be required to obtain approval under the Ownership Law for any acquisition of an affiliate television station that broadcasts to more than 50% of the population of a relevant constituent entity of 21 Table of Contents the Russian Federation, or any acquisition of another Russian network. Such approval process is likely to be time-consuming and may, in any event, ultimately result in a rejection of a proposed transaction. As a result, we may lose out on acquisition opportunities to competitors, and our ability to grow our business through acquisitions in Russia may be limited. Even if the authorities approve such a transaction, they may do so subject to conditions regarding the operation of the company—including, for example, the composition of its management—that may limit our effective control and operational flexibility. Restrictions on foreign involvement in the television business in Russia could potentially be amended or interpreted in such a way as to result in our loss of necessary licenses or to require us to divest majority control of our Russian operating subsidiaries. In addition to the Ownership Law discussed above, the law "On Mass Media" (the "Mass Media Law") also restricts direct (but not indirect) foreign involvement in Russian television businesses. Following adoption of these provisions in 2002, we implemented a restructuring plan pursuant to which we created a holding company structure and reduced CTC Media's direct ownership in the CTC Network and each of our owned-and-operated stations below 50%. CTC Media's direct ownership of Domashny and the Peretz Group, which were acquired subsequent to the adoption of these restrictions, is also below 50%. This restructuring was completed prior to the August 2002 deadline with respect to all entities in our group, other than our CTC-Moscow station; the restructuring of the ownership of that station was completed in December 2002. To date, no Russian governmental authorities have taken any action against our CTC-Moscow station for its failure to comply with the restrictions on foreign legal ownership by the deadline. Because CTC Media does not broadcast or distribute television programming in the Russian Federation, we believe that CTC Media itself does not fall under the definition of a "founder of a television or video program" for purposes of the Mass Media Law, and that CTC Media does not violate the foreign involvement restrictions of that law. The Mass Media Law could in the future be interpreted by Russian governmental authorities or a court to extend to, and to prohibit, indirect foreign ownership of or control over Russian broadcasters of television or video programs. In addition, the Ownership Law described above could be implemented or interpreted to apply in some respects to foreign holdings existing at the time of adoption of the law. In either case, it is possible that Russian governmental authorities could suspend or revoke broadcasting licenses or permits held by our networks and our owned-and-operated stations, or fail to renew any such licenses. If any law were to be adopted or interpreted to restrict indirect foreign ownership and control of Russian television broadcasters, and did not contain a "grandfather" clause with respect to existing holdings, CTC Media could be obliged to restructure its group in order to comply with such requirements, including by divesting a controlling stake in our networks and our owned-and-operated stations. If we failed to comply in a timely manner, the authorities could suspend, revoke or fail to renew broadcasting licenses or permits held by our networks or our owned-and-operated stations, or could take other actions against us that could limit our ability to operate. Restrictions on foreign involvement in the television business in Kazakhstan could be amended or interpreted in such a way as to result in our loss of necessary licenses or to require us to divest control of our Kazakh operating subsidiaries. The Mass Media Law in Kazakhstan restricts direct and indirect foreign ownership of any Kazakh television broadcaster to no more than 20%. In 2008, we acquired a 20% interest in the Kazakh television broadcast company Channel 31, and established two subsidiaries that provide the programming content and advertising sales functions to Channel 31 on an exclusive basis (together, the "Channel 31 Group"). Together, these interests provide us with a 60% economic interest in the Channel 31 Group as a whole. If the existing 20% limit were to be interpreted to restrict effective or economic control, rather than just direct ownership, or if the law were to be changed or interpreted to 22 Table of Contents impose further restrictions or limitations on foreign ownership of Kazakh television broadcasters, we could be obliged to restructure this group in order to comply with such requirements or could be required to divest all or a portion of our interest in the Channel 31 Group. If we failed to comply in a timely manner, the authorities could suspend or revoke Channel 31's broadcasting licenses or could take other actions that could limit our ability to operate the Channel 31 Group. The book value of Channel 31's broadcasting license as of December 31, 2011 was $12.5 million. We have completed several significant acquisitions, and continue to seek opportunities to acquire other stations, networks, production companies and other complementary media businesses. We may encounter difficulties integrating acquired businesses, and if we fail to identify additional suitable targets our growth may be impeded. We completed several significant acquisitions in 2008, including our third national Russian network, DTV; a majority economic interest in the Kazakh network Channel 31; a majority economic interest in a broadcasting group in Moldova; and two Russian production companies. In addition, in 2009, 2010 and in 2011, we acquired several regional stations. While acquisitions represent an important component of our growth strategy, the integration of new businesses poses significant risks to our existing operations, including: •additional and significant demands placed on our senior management, who are also responsible for managing our existing operations; •increased overall operating complexity of our business, requiring greater personnel and other resources; •difficulties of expanding beyond our core expertise; •significant initial cash expenditures to acquire and integrate new businesses; •contingent liabilities associated with acquired businesses; and •incurrence of debt to finance acquisitions and high debt service costs related thereto. Additionally, the integration of new businesses may be difficult for a variety of reasons, including differing cultures or management styles, legal restrictions in the target's jurisdiction, poor target records or internal controls and an inability to establish control over cash flows. Furthermore, even if we are successful in integrating new businesses, expected synergies and cost savings may not materialize, resulting in lower than expected profit margins. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to continue to evaluate potential acquisitions that we believe are commercially attractive. As a US public company, we are subject to securities laws and regulations requiring that we file with the SEC audited historical financial statements for businesses we acquire that exceed certain materiality thresholds. Given financial reporting practices in Russia and other CIS countries, such financial statements are often not readily available or not capable of being audited to the standards required by US securities regulations. As a result, we may be prevented from pursuing acquisition opportunities that our competitors and other financial and strategic investors are able to pursue. A change in Russian law further limiting the amount of advertising time permitted on television could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Current Russian law limits the amount of time that a broadcaster may devote to advertising to no more than 15% of any broadcasting hour. From time to time, there are discussions in the Russian government regarding imposing additional restrictions on television advertising, such as limiting the types of products that may be advertised, limiting product placements in programming, limiting the number of advertising breaks allowed in certain programs or requiring channels to devote more 23 Table of Contents broadcast time to public service announcements. If legislation were introduced to further limit our ability to broadcast paid advertising or product placements, we cannot guarantee that increases in advertising prices, if any, or any other steps we would be able to take to mitigate the impact of such further limitation would be sufficient to compensate for the loss of advertising time. If free-to-air television does not continue to constitute a significant advertising forum in Russia, our revenues could be materially reduced. We generate substantially all our revenues from the sale of television advertising in Russia, which constituted approximately half of all advertising expenditures in Russia in 2011, having increased from 25% in 1999. In the broader advertising market, television competes with various other advertising media, such as print, radio, the internet and outdoor advertising. In addition, the television broadcasting industry is affected by rapid innovations in technology. The implementation of new technologies and the introduction of broadcasting distribution systems other than free-to-air broadcasting, such as direct-to-home cable and satellite distribution systems, the internet, video-on-demand, user-generated content sites and the availability of television programming on portable digital devices, are changing consumer behavior by increasing the number of entertainment choices available to audiences. While television continues to constitute the single largest component of all advertising spending in Russia, there can be no assurance that television will maintain its current position among advertising media. Increases in competition arising from the development of new forms of advertising media could have an adverse effect on our ability to maintain and develop our advertising revenues and, as a result, on our results of operations. The loss of licenses, or the failure to comply with the terms of licenses, could have an adverse affect on our business. All broadcast television stations in Russia are required to have broadcast and other operating licenses, which generally have renewable terms of five years. Pursuant to new legislation that came into force in November 2011, the term of broadcast licenses will be extended to 10 years, and new licenses will cover both digital and analog broadcasting. Only a limited number of broadcasting licenses are available in each locality. In addition, Russian law could be interpreted as requiring cable television operators to have broadcast and other operating licenses for each of the channels or networks they transmit on their cable systems. Most of the independent cable television operators that currently carry our networks do not possess such licenses. The issuance of a license, as well as the terms and conditions of any license, are often subject to the exercise of broad discretion by governmental authorities. A broadcaster must conform its programming to the programming concept outlined in the broadcasting license. In particular, the broadcaster is obliged to ensure compliance of its programming with the declared genres of the channel and to maintain a required balance in the volume-genre ratio of broadcasted materials, both of which are prescribed in the license. Until recently, the broadcasting licenses of our affiliate stations also contained various restrictions, including requirements with respect to the minimum amount of locally produced programming that must be broadcast. The broadcasting license of Channel 31 in Kazakhstan contains various restrictions and obligations. Recently, the Kazakh government enacted a law that requires that broadcasters broadcast at least 50% of their programming in the Kazakh language during every six-hour slot. Moreover, on January 18, 2012, the president of Kazakhstan signed the new Law on Radio and Television Broadcasting that will come into force on March 2, 2012. All foreign channels that are broadcast in Kazakhstan must be accredited with the state's authorities. In order to broadcast our Russian channels in Kazakhstan via our cable partners we will have to obtain such accreditation. We do not know how this law will be interpreted by the authorities and how this law may affect our business. If we fail to obtain such accreditation, we will not be able to broadcast our Russian channels in Kazakhstan. 24 Table of Contents We may not always be in full compliance with licenses requirements. Also, our affiliates have not always been in full compliance with all requirements of their licenses or obtained all the licenses necessary for broadcasting. If the terms of a license are not complied with, or if we violate applicable legislation or regulations, the license may be suspended or terminated (which decision may be appealed in court). If an affiliate were to broadcast without all the necessary licenses, broadcasting may be terminated and fines could be imposed. The loss of an existing broadcasting license, or the failure to obtain a broadcasting license in a new market, particularly in a significant market, could reduce or limit the coverage of our networks and result in a loss of audience share and a fall in ratings, which could materially adversely affect our advertising revenues and business. The failure of our independent affiliates to comply with requirements in our network agreements that they broadcast our advertising creates potential for complaints from our advertising clients. We seek to enter into formal agreements with our independent affiliate stations governing various aspects of the broadcast of our network programming. These agreements generally require our affiliates to air most of our programming, including advertising during federal advertising slots. The majority of our independent affiliate stations have their own broadcasting licenses which entitle them to form their own broadcasting grid structured in accordance with their licenses as well as our network agreements. Some of these affiliates operate in small cities which are not included in the TNS Gallup panel. As a result, there is no regular TNS monitoring of the advertising they broadcast, and we cannot ensure that our affiliates are consistent in their compliance with the federal advertising provisions in our agreements. If an independent affiliate breaches its obligations under our network agreement, we may face complaints from our clients. The loss of independent affiliates could result in a loss of audience shares. We seek to enter into formal agreements with our independent affiliate stations that govern various aspects of the broadcast of our network programming. These agreements generally provide each party with the right to terminate the agreement on 60 or 90 days' notice without penalty. In certain instances, particularly in smaller cities and towns and with local cable networks, our arrangements are governed by letters of understanding that provide us with only limited recourse in the event of a disagreement. If an independent affiliate in a larger market, particularly in a city where audiences are measured and in which we do not own and operate a station, were to terminate its agreement with us, sell itself to a competing network or lose the ability to broadcast our signal, it could result in a decrease in our audience share. We rely on third parties for the production of some of our original Russian programming, and our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to continue such relationships on acceptable terms. Although we produce a portion of our original programming in-house, we continue to rely on third-party production houses to produce a portion of our original programs. If we are unable to continue our close working relationships with the production houses we use or to develop new relationships, our ability to air premium new Russian content may be impeded, which would likely result in a loss of audience share and therefore a reduction in our share of the television advertising market. We rely on third parties to provide us with re-transmission capabilities in certain locations, and our business would be adversely affected if such parties terminated or adversely changed the terms of those relationships. In certain locations, we depend on cable operators or other third parties to carry our signal. In Moscow, for example, television signals are transmitted from a central tower to roof antennas 25 Table of Contents located on buildings throughout the city, and then amplified for retransmission within the buildings. The original system, which was introduced in the 1960's, carried only six VHF channels. Mostelecom, the local provider, upgraded a number of roof antenna systems from 1997 to 2004 to add capacity for a limited number of additional channels. We collaborated with Mostelecom in this project, paying an amount per additional household connected, in order to help ensure that our CTC Network has allocated access on Mostelecom's systems where capacity was increased. We have entered into contracts with Mostelecom to secure the right of our CTC and Domashny Moscow stations to be connected by cable to additional households in Moscow. Peretz also has a number of agreements with Mostelecom for cable connections to households in Moscow. These contracts do not, however, grant us the right to be connected to all households in Moscow for all of our networks. We continue to evaluate, from a cost benefit analysis, whether to enter into additional contracts with Mostelecom regarding other households. A second cable operator carries our networks' signals to approximately 15% of the Moscow households covered by our networks' signals. We pay this cable operator an annual fee for transmission to these households. A cable system similar to that provided by Mostelecom is in place in St. Petersburg and is operated by the local provider; there we currently have no binding contractual right of access to the system. In April 2007, the Russian Ministry of Telecommunications requested evidence of the legal basis pursuant to which some cable television operators, including those carrying the signals of our networks, carry certain broadcasters' signals over their systems. As a result of this request, some of our cable television operators, including Mostelecom, which is the primary carrier of our networks' signals in Moscow, indicated that they might be required to begin charging us transmission fees for carrying our signals on their networks. We and representatives of other Russian broadcasters met with the Russian Ministry of Telecommunications in the second quarter of 2007 to understand the ramifications of this inquiry. It was agreed that the broadcasters and cable television operators should try to resolve this issue independently, without involvement of the Russian Ministry of Telecommunications, by the end of 2007. While discussions continue on resolving this matter, to date, no resolution has been reached and no further actions have been taken. If we were to be denied continued access to the cable systems that carry our networks' signals in Moscow or St. Petersburg, our technical penetration would be materially adversely affected which would, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our audience shares. Moreover, if we were required to pay transmission fees to these cable operators, our operating costs would be increased, possibly materially. We may not be able to compete successfully against other television free-to-air channels and networks that may have broader coverage, greater name recognition, larger market share, wider programming content or access to more funding than we do, or with newer niche channels or non-free-to-air channels offering competitive programming formats. The Russian television broadcasting business is highly competitive. Approximately 20 free-to air television channels account for approximately 98% of the television advertising market. The market also includes multiple non-free-to-air television channels. The free-to-air channels include five larger national channels, namely Channel One, Rossiya 1, NTV, CTC and TNT, and a number smaller niche channels, including Domashny and Peretz. Our networks compete for audience share with other national television networks and channels and with local stations, as well as with niche broadcasters. We compete on the basis of both the actual and anticipated size of our audiences for specific time slots, as well as the demographic characteristics of our viewers. 26 Table of Contents On a national level, CTC competes directly with other larger broadcast networks and channels, including Channel One and NTV, as well as with the smaller network TNT. Domashny competes for advertising revenues primarily with Rossiya 1 and TVC, and Peretz competes primarily with TV-3 and REN-TV, although they both also compete with the larger broadcast networks and channels for viewers within their target demographic groups. On a local level, our owned-and-operated stations compete with other stations for local advertising. Channel One and Rossiya 1 were established as state television channels during the Soviet period and they remain under Russian state control. As a result, we understand that these channels receive state benefits not generally available to private companies, including free signal transmission (in the case of Channel One), direct state budget subsidies (in the case of Rossiya 1) and preferences in licensing. Moreover, nearly every viewing household in Russia can receive the broadcast signals of Channel One and Rossiya 1, while only a more limited viewing audience can currently receive our network signals. The much broader coverage and name recognition of Channel One and Rossiya 1, coupled with programming geared toward a broader demographic group, help them to attract large audience shares. NTV, which is indirectly controlled by the state through Gazprom, the state-controlled energy company, also has a broader coverage than our networks, and we believe also benefits from free signal transmission. In 2011, Channel One had an average audience share of 16.9%, while Rossiya 1's was 15.5% and NTV's was 14.6%. CTC's average audience share in 2011 was 7.7%. We believe that the strong audience shares of Channel One, Rossiya 1 and NTV may give these broadcasters added leverage in negotiations with advertisers, advertising agencies and sales houses. Moreover, as we focus on entertainment programming, we are unable to compete with other broadcasters for audiences for news and sporting programs, some of which have among the highest audience shares and ratings in their time slots. In 2011 the Walt Disney Company acquired 49% stake in Russian 7TV channel, a part of UTH Russia holding. Disney Channel replaced the current branding and programming of 7TV and launched its free-to-air broadcasting in Russia using frequencies of 7TV effective December 31, 2011. Disney channel focuses on family entertainment by combining Disney programming with original Russian TV shows. Broadcasting of Disney Channel in Russia resulted in increased competition and may result in decline of CTC's younger audience. On June 1, 2011, Telcrest acquired 25.15% of our common stock from a former stockholder. We understand that the beneficial owners of Telcrest, including Bank Rossiya (which is not affiliated with Rossiya television channel), have investments in Russian media businesses, including through ownership interests in Channel One, REN-TV and Channel 5. Telcrest and Bank Rossiya may have interests different from, or in addition to, the interests of other stockholders of CTC Media. See also "—Our principal stockholders may have interests that are different from, or in addition to, the interests of other stockholders of CTC Media." In addition to competing with larger free-to-air broadcasters, we compete with multiple niche free-to-air and non-free-to-air channels. During the last three years the audience shares of Russian niche free-to-air and non-free-to-air television have increased, which has had a negative impact on the audience shares of all larger free-to-air channels, including CTC channel. Non-free-to-air channels typically provide services to subscribers for a regular subscription fee, and typically do not generate a significant portion of their revenues from advertising. As a percentage of the overall television market, the non-free-to-air market in Russia is currently smaller than in the United States and Western European countries. Audience share for these channels, however, is increasing. In other countries, such as the United States, growth in non-free-to-air television services has often resulted in a fragmentation of the market and a corresponding decrease in the audience share of large national networks and channels. If niche and non-free-to-air channels continue to grow their customer base in Russia, our audience shares and ratings, especially the audience share of CTC channel, could be negatively affected, which would adversely affect our advertising revenues. See also "If free-to-air television does 27 Table of Contents not continue to constitute a significant advertising forum in Russia, our revenues could be materially reduced". We have substantial future programming commitments that we may not be able to vary in response to a decline in advertising revenues, and as a result could experience material reductions in operating margins. Programming represents our most significant expense, and at any given time we generally have substantial fixed commitments for the succeeding two to three years. For example, as of December 31, 2011 we had contractual commitments for the acquisition of approximately $160.7 million in programming rights in 2012 and $62.1 million in 2013–2014. Given the size of these commitments at any time, a reduction in our advertising revenues could adversely affect our operating margins and results of operations. We would have only limited ability to reduce our costs in the short-run in response to such developments. Our relationships with the co-owners of our television stations may limit our ability to implement our business plans and strategy. More than half of our owned-and-operated stations are 100% owned by CTC Media. Other investors own between less than 1% and 50% of each of the remaining owned-and-operated stations. In some cases, we depend to a significant extent on our local partners for their familiarity with the local business environment and public authorities. Moreover, we may in the future similarly rely on joint-owners as we acquire additional stations. Any significant disruption in our relationship with these parties could make it more difficult for us to operate these stations. Russian law and some of the agreements governing these stations grant protective rights to our co-owners that enable them to block certain significant corporate actions. Under Russian company law, significant corporate decisions, such as declaring and paying dividends and entering into substantial transactions, require the consent of the holders of two-thirds or three-quarters of the voting interests of the company, depending on the subject matter and the legal structure of the company. In addition, unanimous shareholder approval is required in limited instances, which could further affect our control over certain actions. For example, approval of a joint stock company's initial charter and reorganization of a joint stock company into a non-commercial partnership require 100% approval of shareholders and, in the case of a limited liability company, increases in charter capital, amendments to a limited liability company's charter, and liquidation, among other actions, require 100% approval of the holders of participation interests. As a result, we are often required to obtain the consent of our co-owners when making significant corporate decisions. Although we are not aware of any specific transaction in which we failed to obtain the requisite approval of the co-owners of our stations, due to the formalistic nature of Russian law and the large number of corporate actions that are taken annually by our co-owned stations, we believe it is likely that, from time to time, not all necessary minority shareholder consents have been obtained. As a result, we cannot guarantee that co-owners of our stations will not bring claims against us for failure to obtain these necessary consents, which, if successful, could result in the transaction in question being voided. Moreover, even if not technically required by law or contract, we generally prefer to obtain the consent and support of our co-owners before undertaking significant corporate actions. If this consent cannot be obtained, we may decide to forego a transaction that is commercially favorable to us in an effort to preserve goodwill with our co-owners. Loss of key personnel could affect our growth and future success. We believe that our growth and our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled senior management, production talent and finance personnel. In 2009 and 2010 we lost several key personnel, including several important content production, legal and 28 Table of Contents finance personnel. In addition, we believe that certain competitors continue to aggressively court some of our personnel. The competition is intense in Russia for qualified personnel who are familiar with the Russian television industry and/or who are knowledgeable about US accounting and legal practices. Although we have found replacements for the personnel we lost, we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain qualified personnel, or hire appropriate replacements on reasonable terms or at all. A systems failure could prevent us from transmitting our network signal and lead to a loss of viewers, damage to our reputation and a reduction in our advertising revenues. Our networks' signals originate in Moscow and are uplinked to multiple separate satellite systems that transmit our signals to our affiliate stations and unmanned repeater transmitters. Despite our back-up systems, from time to time we experience signal failures. Prolonged or repeated disruptions in our signals could lead to a loss of viewers, damage to our reputation and a reduction in our advertising revenues. We do not carry business interruption insurance to protect us in the event of a catastrophe or termination of our ability to transmit our signals, even though such an event could have a significant negative impact on our business. We do not carry all of the insurance coverage customary in many countries for a business of our size and nature, and as a result could experience substantial loss or disruption. The insurance industry is less developed in Russia than in other developed countries, and many forms of insurance protection common in other countries are not yet available in Russia on comparable terms, including coverage for business interruption. At present, we have no coverage for business interruption or loss of key management personnel. We do not maintain separate funds or otherwise set aside reserves for these types of losses. Any such loss may cause substantial disruption and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our principal stockholders may have interests that are different from, or in addition to, the interests of other stockholders of CTC Media. Each of our two largest stockholders, which together hold approximately 63% of our common stock, is involved in the television business in Russia. MTG Russia AB, an affiliate of the publicly listed Modern Times Group MTG AB ("MTG"), holds a 50% interest in Raduga Holdings. Raduga is the sole owner of LCC DalGeoCom, which operates Raduga TV, a nationwide Russian digital satellite pay-TV platform. Hans-Holger Albrecht, the President and CEO of MTG, is a Co-Chairman of our board of directors; Mathias Hermansson, Chief Financial Officer of MTG, and Irina Gofman, Chief Executive Officer of MTG Russia AB, are members of our board of directors. Although we do not currently operate in the pay-TV market, and do not currently compete with or have any commercial relationship with Raduga TV, MTG may have interests that are different from or in addition to interests of other stockholders of CTC Media, including as a result of its interest in another Russian television business. We understand that the beneficial owners of Telcrest, including Bank Rossiya, have investments in Russian media businesses, including through indirect equity interests in Channel One, REN-TV and TRK 5 (Channel 5). We understand that Bank Rossiya also has indirect significant minority interests in Video International, with which we have software license and service agreements in respect of advertising sales. Pursuant to a stockholders agreement, Telcrest has designated three of our directors, none of whom we understand is currently primarily engaged in the operations of Channel One, REN-TV, TRK 5 or Video International. We compete with broadcasters in which the beneficial owners of Telcrest have equity and financial interests, and we believe the services of Video International are important to our operations. Although we are not aware of any conflicts of interest with Telcrest in this regard, Telcrest and its beneficial owners may have interests that are different from or in addition to interests of other stockholders of CTC Media. 29 Table of Contents Risks relating to doing business and investing in Russia The Russian banking system remains underdeveloped, and another banking crisis could place severe liquidity constraints on our business. Russia's banking and other financial systems are less developed and regulated than those of many other developed countries, and Russian legislation relating to banks and bank accounts is subject to varying interpretations and inconsistent application. Many Russian banks do not meet international banking standards, and the transparency of the Russian banking sector still lags far behind internationally accepted norms. Furthermore, Russian bank deposits made by corporate entities generally are not insured. The disruption in the world credit markets in 2008 and 2009 also negatively impacted the banking sector in Russia. There are currently a limited number of creditworthy Russian banks, most of which are located in Moscow and the largest of which are state-owned. We generally hold a large majority of our cash balance in Russian banks, including the Russian subsidiaries of foreign banks. Of that balance, a significant portion is held in ruble-denominated accounts. There are few, if any, safe ruble-denominated instruments in which we may invest our excess ruble cash. A banking crisis or the bankruptcy or insolvency of the banks from which we receive or with which we hold our funds could result in the loss of our deposits or affect our ability to complete banking transactions in Russia, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. Businesses in Russia, especially media companies, can be subject to politically motivated actions, which could materially adversely affect our operations. The Russian government has taken various actions in past years against business people and companies operating in Russia that have been perceived as having been politically motivated, including actions for technical violations of law or violations of laws that have been applied retroactively, including violations of tax laws. These actions have on occasion resulted in significant fluctuations in the market prices of the securities of businesses operating in Russia, a weakening of investor confidence in Russia and doubts about the progress of market and political reforms in Russia. Media businesses can be particularly vulnerable to politically motivated actions. NTV, TV-6 and TVS have all experienced what could be characterized as politically motivated actions, including efforts to effect changes of control. As a result of these actions, TV-6, which became TVS, is no longer broadcasting. We believe that our focus on entertainment, and the fact that we broadcast entertainment and celebrity news, but do not offer "hard" news, commentary or analysis on our national networks, could lessen the risk of provoking politically motivated actions. However, we do not restrict the ability of our independent affiliates to broadcast local news in local broadcasting windows, and some of our independent affiliates, as well as one of our owned-and-operated CTC stations, broadcast local political news, generally with the approval of our local partners and the local authorities. Any politically motivated action against us, our networks, our independent affiliates, or any of our principal stockholders, including the beneficial owners of MTG or Telcrest, could materially adversely affect our operations. The pending presidential election in Russia creates a degree of administrative and commercial uncertainty, which may adversely affect our ability to implement our business plan in the near term. The next presidential election in Russia is scheduled for March 2012. That election may create a degree of uncertainty regarding political, regulatory, administrative and commercial priorities in the medium term, which could adversely affect our business. 30 Table of Contents The Russian legal system can create an uncertain environment for investment and business activity, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and the value of our common stock. The legal framework to support a market economy remains new and in flux in Russia and, as a result, the Russian legal system can be characterized by: •inconsistencies between and among laws and governmental, ministerial and local regulations, orders, decisions, resolutions and other acts; •substantial gaps in the regulatory structure resulting from the delay in adoption or absence of implementing regulations; •limited judicial and administrative guidance on interpreting Russian legislation; •the relative inexperience of judges and courts in interpreting relatively new commercial legislation; •a lack of judicial independence from political, social and commercial forces; •under-funding and under-staffing of the court system; •a high degree of discretion on the part of the judiciary and governmental authorities; and •poorly developed bankruptcy procedures that are subject to abuse. As is true of civil law systems, judicial precedents generally have no binding effect on subsequent decisions. Not all Russian legislation and court decisions are readily available to the public or organized in a manner that facilitates understanding. The Russian judicial system can be slow, and enforcement of court orders can in practice be very difficult. All of these factors make judicial decisions in Russia difficult to predict and effective redress uncertain. Additionally, court claims and governmental prosecutions are sometimes used in furtherance of political aims. In addition, several key Russian laws, including the amendment to the Law on Advertising and the Ownership Law (both discussed above), have been subject to only limited interpretation to date. The untested nature of much of recent Russian legislation and the rapid evolution of the Russian legal system in ways that may not always coincide with market developments may result in ambiguities, inconsistencies and anomalies in the Russian legal system. The recently adopted federal law "On regulation of production and distribution of ethanol, alcohol and drinks containing alcohol" gives the status of alcoholic drinks to beer and all drinks containing beer, which in turn will prohibit advertising of such drinks on television. Starting July 22, 2012 we will not be able to broadcast ads for beer and drinks containing beer on our channels, which may result in a reduction in our revenues. On November 13, 2011 a new License Law came into force, which extends the legal term of broadcasting licenses from five to ten years. On November 10, 2011, the federal law "Improving Regulation of Mass Media, Television and Radio Broadcasting" came into force; this law regulates broadcasting by generally accessible television and radio channels in Russia. This law also provides for a so-called "universal license", which permits the editorial staff of a channel to broadcast the channel through free-to-air, cable and satellite broadcasting, in either digital or analog format. Although we do not currently anticipate that these laws will adversely affect our business, we do not know how these laws will be interpreted by the applicable authorities and cannot assure you that these interpretations will be favorable to us or will not affect our business negatively. In addition, a new law "On protection of children from harmful information" came into force on December 31, 2010. This law makes it illegal to make available to children any information that maybe harmful to them, such as scenes of violence, abusive language, pornography and scenes encouraging children to consume alcohol, drugs and tobacco. All information must be labeled into five categories: 31 Table of Contents (1) information appropriate for children under 6 years, (2) information appropriate for children 6 years and older, (3) information appropriate for children 12 years and older, (4) information appropriate for children 16 years and older, and (5) information prohibited for children. This law does not contain any detailed regulation as to how information is to be categorized into these five groups, what kind of experts are to label such information, or how this law will be implemented. This law is ambiguous and there is no practice of implementation of such laws in Russia, which may lead to a high degree of discretion of governmental authorities in its implementation, as well as abuse of this law. Such uncertainties in the Russian legal system could affect our ability to enforce our rights under our licenses and under our contracts, or to defend ourselves against claims by others. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that regulators, judicial authorities or third parties will not challenge our compliance with applicable laws, decrees and regulations. Selective or arbitrary government action may have an adverse effect on our business and the value of our common stock. Government authorities have a high degree of discretion in Russia and have at times exercised their discretion selectively or arbitrarily, without hearing or prior notice, and sometimes in a manner that is influenced by political or commercial considerations. The government also has the power, in certain circumstances, to interfere with the performance of, nullify or terminate contracts. Selective or arbitrary actions have included withdrawal of licenses, sudden and unexpected tax audits, criminal prosecutions and civil actions. Federal and local government entities have also used common defects in documentation as pretexts for court claims and other demands to invalidate and/or to void transactions, apparently for political purposes. We cannot assure you that regulators, judicial authorities or third parties will not challenge our compliance (including that of our subsidiaries) with applicable laws, decrees and regulations in Russia. Selective or arbitrary government action could have a material adverse effect on our business and on the value of our common stock. If the Russian Federal Anti-monopoly Service were to conclude that we acquired or created a new company in contravention of anti-monopoly legislation, it could impose fines or administrative sanctions and could require the divestiture of such company or other assets. Our business has grown in part through the acquisition and establishment of companies, many of which transactions required the prior approval of, or subsequent notification to, the Russian Federal Anti-monopoly Service or its predecessor agencies (the "FAS"). The relevant legislation restricts the acquisition or establishment of companies by groups of companies or individuals acting in concert without the required approval or notification. This legislation is vague in parts and subject to varying interpretations. If the FAS were to conclude that an acquisition or establishment of a new company had been effected in contravention of applicable legislation and competition has been reduced as a result, it could impose administrative sanctions and require the divestiture of such company or other assets, adversely affecting our business strategy and our results of operations. If one of our principal subsidiaries is forced into liquidation due to negative net assets, our results of operations could suffer. If at the end of any fiscal year a Russian company's net assets as determined in accordance with Russian accounting regulations are below the minimum amount of charter capital required by Russian law, the company is required to convene a shareholders meeting to adopt a decision to liquidate. If it fails to do so within a "reasonable period," the company's creditors may request early termination or acceleration of the company's obligations to them, as well as damages, and governmental authorities may seek to cause the involuntary liquidation of the company. Under an earlier version of this law, the company's shareholders could also bring an action to force the liquidation of the company. It is unclear under Russian law whether a historical violation of this requirement may be retroactively cured, even if 32 Table of Contents a company later comes into compliance with the requirement. On occasion, Russian courts have ordered the involuntary liquidation of a company for having negative net assets even if the company has continued to fulfill its obligations and had net assets in excess of the minimum amount at the time of liquidation. Certain of our regional subsidiaries have had, and continue to have, negative equity as reported in their respective Russian statutory financial statements. None of these companies has applied for voluntary liquidation. We are currently taking steps to remedy the negative net asset value of these subsidiaries, but we have not included it as a contingency in our financial statements because we believe that, so long as these subsidiaries continue to fulfill their obligations, the risk of their forced liquidation is remote. There has been no judicial or other official interpretation of what constitutes a "reasonable period" within which a company must act to liquidate. If any of our subsidiaries were to be liquidated involuntarily, we would be forced to reorganize the operations we currently conduct through that subsidiary. The liquidation of any of the subsidiaries in our Television Station Groups would result in the termination of their existing broadcast and other licenses, and we cannot assure you that we would be able to secure new licenses needed for these stations to continue to operate. Accordingly, any liquidation could have a material adverse effect on our business. Russian law requires the approval of certain transactions by the minority shareholders of our subsidiaries, including several of our owned-and-operated television stations, and failure to receive this approval could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We own less than 100% of many of our owned-and-operated stations. Under Russian law, certain transactions defined as "interested party transactions" require approval by disinterested members of the board of directors or disinterested shareholders of the companies involved. Our owned-and-operated stations that have other shareholders engage in numerous transactions with us that require interested party transaction approvals in accordance with Russian law. Due to the formulistic nature of much of Russian law, these transactions have not always been properly approved, and therefore may be contested by minority shareholders. In the event that these other shareholders were successfully to contest past interested party transactions, or prevent the approval of such transactions in the future, our flexibility in operating these television stations could be limited and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Certain transactions between members of our consolidated corporate group may constitute interested party transactions under Russian law even when the companies involved are wholly owned by us. Although we generally endeavor to obtain all corporate approvals required under Russian law to consummate these transactions, we have not always applied special approval procedures in connection with our consummation of transactions with or between our subsidiaries. In the event that a claim is filed in relation to certain transactions with or between our subsidiaries, such transactions are found to have been interested party transactions, and we are found to have failed to obtain the appropriate approvals, such transactions may be declared invalid. The unwinding of any transactions concluded with or between our subsidiaries may have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. Shareholder liability under Russian legislation could cause us to become liable for the obligations of our subsidiaries. The Russian Civil Code, the Law on Joint Stock Companies and the Law on Limited Liability Companies generally provide that shareholders in a Russian joint stock company or limited liability company are not liable for the obligations of the company and bear only the risk of loss of their investment. This may not be the case, however, when one person (an "effective parent") is capable of determining decisions made by another (an "effective subsidiary"). The effective parent bears joint and 33 Table of Contents several responsibility for transactions concluded by the effective subsidiary in carrying out these decisions in certain circumstances. In addition, an effective parent is secondarily liable for an effective subsidiary's debts if an effective subsidiary becomes insolvent or bankrupt as a result of the action or inaction of an effective parent. This is the case no matter how the effective parent's capability to determine decisions of the effective subsidiary arises. For example, this liability could arise through ownership of voting securities or by contract. In these instances, other shareholders of the effective subsidiary may claim compensation for the effective subsidiary's losses from the effective parent that caused the effective subsidiary to act or fail to act, knowing that such action or inaction would result in losses. Accordingly, in CTC Media's position as an effective parent, it could be liable in some cases for the debts of its effective subsidiaries. Although the total indebtedness of CTC Media's effective subsidiaries is currently immaterial, it is possible that CTC Media could face material liability in this regard in the future, which could materially adversely affect our business and our results of operations. Changes in the Russian tax system or arbitrary or unforeseen application of existing rules could materially adversely affect our financial condition. Our tax burden may become greater than the estimated amount that we have expensed to date and paid or accrued on our balance sheets. Russian tax authorities have often been arbitrary and aggressive in their interpretation of tax laws and their many ambiguities, as well as in their enforcement and collection activities. Many companies are often forced to negotiate their tax bills with tax inspectors who may demand higher taxes than applicable law appears to provide. Any additional tax liability, as well as any unforeseen changes in Russian tax laws, could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations or cash flows in a particular period. We have at times accrued substantial amounts for contingent tax liabilities, a substantial portion of which accruals we have reversed as contingencies have been resolved favorably or changes in circumstances have occurred. The amounts currently accrued for tax contingencies may not be sufficient to meet any liability we may ultimately face. From time to time, we also identify tax contingencies for which we have not provided an accrual. Such unaccrued tax contingencies could materialize and require us to pay additional amounts of tax. Under Russian accounting and tax principles, financial statements of Russian companies are not consolidated for tax purposes. As a result, each Russian- registered entity in our group pays its own Russian taxes and we cannot offset the profits or losses in any single entity against the profits and losses of any other entity. Consequently, our overall effective tax rate may increase as we expand our operations, unless we are able to maintain an effective corporate structure that minimizes the effect of these Russian accounting and tax norms. The Russian tax system imposes additional burdens and costs on our operations in Russia, and complicates our tax planning and related business decisions. The uncertainty involved potentially exposes us to significant fines, penalties and enforcement measures despite our best efforts at compliance, which could result in a greater than expected tax burden on our subsidiaries. These factors raise the risk of a sudden imposition of arbitrary or onerous taxes on our operations in Russia. This could adversely affect our business and the value of our common stock. Any US or other foreign judgments that may be obtained against us may be difficult to enforce against us in Russia. Although CTC Media is a Delaware corporation, subject to suit in US federal and other courts, we have essentially no operations in the United States, most of our assets are located in Russia, and most of our directors and their assets are located outside the United States. Although arbitration awards are generally enforceable in Russia, judgments obtained in the United States or in other foreign courts, including those with respect to US federal securities law claims, may not be enforceable in Russia. 34 Table of Contents There is no mutual recognition treaty between the United States and the Russian Federation, and no Russian federal law provides for the recognition and enforcement of foreign court judgments. Therefore, it may be difficult to enforce any US or other foreign court judgment obtained against our company, any of our operating subsidiaries or any of our directors in Russia. Risks relating to doing business elsewhere in the CIS We face similar risks in other countries of the CIS. In addition to Russia, we currently have operations in other countries in the CIS, including Kazakhstan and Moldova. We may acquire additional operations in other countries of the CIS. In many respects, the risks inherent in transacting business in these countries are similar to those in Russia, especially those risks set out above in "—Risks relating to doing business and investing in Russia". Emerging markets such as Russia and other CIS countries are subject to greater risks than more developed markets, including legal, economic and political risks. Investors in emerging markets such as Russia and other CIS countries should be aware that these markets are subject to greater risk than more developed markets, including in some cases legal, economic and political risks. Investors should also note that emerging economies, such as the economies of Russia and Kazakhstan, are subject to rapid change and that the information set out herein may become outdated relatively quickly. Furthermore, in doing business in various countries of the CIS, we face risks similar to (and sometimes greater than) those that we face in Russia. Accordingly, investors should exercise care in evaluating the risks involved and must decide for themselves whether, in light of those risks, their investment is appropriate. Generally, investment in emerging markets is only suitable for sophisticated investors who fully appreciate the significance of the risks involved and investors are urged to consult with their own legal and financial advisors before making an investment in our shares. Risks relating to our stock The price of our common stock has experienced significant volatility in the past and may be volatile in the future. Our stock price has experienced significant volatility in the past and is likely to be volatile in the future. The stock market in general and, in particular, the market for companies whose operations are in emerging markets, like Russia, have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. This volatility has been more pronounced in recent periods due to the turmoil in world financial markets. As a result of this volatility, investors may not be able to sell their shares of our common stock at or above the price at which they purchase it. The market price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: •fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; •changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; •changes in market valuations of similar companies; •extraordinary expenses or charges in particular periods, including material impairment losses; •changes in general economic, political and market conditions in Russia and globally; •changes in the audience shares of our networks; •changes in the structure of advertising sales in Russia; 35 Table of Contents •public announcements by industry experts regarding trends in advertising spending in Russia and globally; and •announcements regarding our acquisition activities, if any. Moreover, only a relatively small number of shares of our common stock are currently actively traded in the public market. As of February 25, 2012, approximately 37% of our outstanding common stock was held by parties other than our directors, executive officers and principal stockholders and their respective affiliates. The limited liquidity of our common stock may have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation. If equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. We do not control these analysts. The price of our stock could decline if one or more equity research analysts downgrade our stock or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. Insiders have substantial control over us and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control. As of February 25, 2012, our directors, executive officers and principal stockholders, and their respective affiliates, beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 63% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, may have the ability to determine the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these persons, acting together, may have the ability to control the management and affairs of our company. In particular, our principal stockholders have entered into a voting arrangement that determines the composition of our board of directors. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could prevent or delay change-of-control transactions. Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our charter documents may make a change in control of our company more difficult. For example: •Stockholders' meetings may only be called by one of the Co-Chairmen of our board of directors, our Chief Executive Officer or the majority of the board of directors. •Our stockholders may not take action by written consent. •We have a classified board of directors, which means that our directors serve for staggered three-year terms and currently no more than three of our nine directors are elected each year. This structure may make it more difficult for an acquirer to take control of our company, which may make our company a less desirable acquisition target. Delaware law also prohibits a corporation from engaging in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock until the holder has held the stock for three years unless, among other possibilities, the board of directors approves the transaction or approves the transaction pursuant to which the holder became a 15% holder. Our board of directors may use this provision to prevent changes in our management. Our board of directors approved the transaction pursuant to 36 Table of Contents which Telcrest became a holder of more than 15% of our capital stock, and accordingly this prohibition would not apply in the case of a business combination transaction with Telcrest. Under applicable Delaware law, our board of directors may adopt additional anti-takeover measures in the future. In addition, we are party to a stockholders' agreement with our two largest stockholders, MTG and Telcrest, pursuant to which each of these stockholders has agreed, with limited exceptions, not to acquire additional shares of our capital stock to the extent that such acquisition would cause its beneficial ownership to exceed 50% of the voting power of our outstanding shares without making a tender offer for all of our outstanding shares in compliance with the tender offer rules under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, unless it reaches this ownership level through the exercise of rights of first offer set forth in the stockholders' agreement. If there are substantial sales of our common stock in the market by our existing stockholders, our stock price could decline. If our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock or the public market perceives that existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. The holders of approximately 63% of our common stock have the right under specified circumstances to require us to register their shares for resale to the public or participate in a registration of shares by us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 