Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (“Form 10-K”). These factors should be considered in evaluating the forward-looking statements and undue reliance should not be placed on such statements. Northeast Community Bancorp, Inc. assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. PART I Item 1. BUSINESS General Northeast Community Bancorp, Inc. (“Northeast Community Bancorp” or the “Company”) is a federally chartered stock holding company established on July 5, 2006 to be the holding company for Northeast Community Bank (the “Bank”). Northeast Community Bancorp’s business activity is the ownership of the outstanding capital stock of the Bank. Northeast Community Bancorp does not own or lease any property but instead uses the premises, equipment and other property of the Bank with the payment of appropriate rental fees, as required by applicable law and regulations, under the terms of an expense allocation agreement. Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC (the “MHC”) is the Company’s federally chartered mutual holding company parent. As a mutual holding company, the MHC is a non-stock company that has as its members the depositors of Northeast Community Bank. The MHC does not engage in any business activity other than owning a majority of the common stock of Northeast Community Bancorp. So long as we remain in the mutual holding company form of organization, the MHC will own a majority of the outstanding shares of Northeast Community Bancorp. Northeast Community Bank has been conducting business throughout the New York metropolitan area for more than 70 years. Northeast Community Bank was originally chartered in 1934. In 2006, Northeast Community Bank changed its name from “Fourth Federal Savings Bank” to “Northeast Community Bank.” We operate as a community-oriented financial institution offering traditional financial services to consumers and businesses in our market area and our lending territory. We attract deposits from the general public and use those funds to originate multi-family residential, mixed-use and non-residential real estate and consumer loans, which we hold for investment. We have been originating multi-family and mixed-use real estate loans in the New York metropolitan area for more than 50 years and recently expanded our lending territory to include all of New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, southern New Hampshire, southern Maine and Pennsylvania. We generally do not offer one- to four-family residential loans. In February 2007, we hired an additional lending officer with significant multi-family, mixed-use and non-residential lending experience and hired a treasurer with accounting and public company reporting experience. In March 2007, we hired a senior lending officer with significant commercial bank lending experience. We are in the process of developing new commercial credit policies and intend to begin originating commercial loans to individuals and businesses located in our primary market areas. Our website address is www.necommunitybank.com. Information on our website should not be considered a part of this Form 10-K. 1 Index Market Area We are headquartered in White Plains, New York, which is located in Westchester County and we operate five full-service branch offices in the New York City boroughs of Manhattan (New York County), Brooklyn (Kings County) and the Bronx (Bronx County), which we consider our primary market area. On March 15, 2007 we notified the Office of Thrift Supervision of our intent to open a branch office at 325 Hamilton Avenue, White Plains, NY, our corporate headquarters location, which we expect will open in the second quarter of 2007. We also operate a loan production office in Wellesley, Massachusetts. We generate deposits through our five current branch offices and when opened, through our branch office at our corporate headquarters, which we are opening in conjunction with the commencement of our commercial business lending operations. We conduct lending activities throughout the New York metropolitan area as well as in the Northeast and Midatlantic regions of the United States. In addition to New York and Massachusetts, our lending territory includes New Jersey, Connecticut, southern New Hampshire, Rhode Island, southern Maine and Pennsylvania. Our primary market area includes a population base with a broad cross section of wealth, employment and ethnicity. We operate in markets that generally have experienced relatively slow demographic growth, a characteristic typical of mature urban markets located throughout the Northeast region. Population and household growth rates for all four of the primary market area counties have been and are projected to remain below the comparable U.S. measures. With the exception of Kings County, the counties within our primary market area matched or exceeded the comparable historical and projected growth rates for the state of New York. New York County is a relatively affluent market, reflecting the influence of Wall Street along with the presence of a broad spectrum of Fortune 500 companies. Comparatively, Kings County and Bronx County are home to a broad socioeconomic spectrum, with a significant portion of the respective populations employed in relatively low wage blue collar jobs. Westchester County is also an affluent market, serving as a desired suburban location for commuting into New York City as well as reflecting growth of higher paying jobs in the county, particularly in White Plains. Over the next five years, New York County and Westchester County are projected to sustain growth in household income that exceeds comparable New York and U.S. growth rates. The more affluent nature of New York County and Westchester County is further implied by household income distribution measures, which show that, in comparison to Bronx County and Kings County, New York and Westchester Counties maintain a lower percentage of households with incomes of less than $25,000 and a much higher percentage of households with incomes in the upper income brackets. Our lending territory also includes Massachusetts, New Jersey, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, southern New Hampshire, southern Maine and Rhode Island. While each of these states has different economic characteristics, our customer base in these states tends to be similar to our customer base in New York and is comprised mostly of owners of low to moderate income apartment buildings or non-residential real estate in low to moderate income areas. Outside the State of New York, our largest concentration of real estate loans is in Massachusetts, primarily in the suburbs of Boston, inside the I-495 loop. This area is characterized by a large number of apartment buildings, condominiums and office buildings. The greater Boston metropolitan area benefits from the presence of numerous institutions of higher learning, medical care and research centers and the corporate headquarters of several significant mutual fund investment companies. Eastern Massachusetts also has many high technology companies employing personnel with specialized skills. It should be noted, however, that Massachusetts has lost population two years in a row. These factors affect the demand for residential homes, multi-family apartments, office buildings, shopping centers, industrial warehouses and other commercial properties. Competition We face significant competition for the attraction of deposits. The New York metropolitan area has a significant concentration of financial institutions, including large money center and regional banks, community banks and credit unions. Over the past 10 years, consolidation of the banking industry in the New York metropolitan area has continued, resulting in larger and increasingly efficient competitors. We also face competition for investors’ funds from money market funds, mutual funds and other corporate and government securities. At June 30, 2006, which is the most recent date for which data is available from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, we held less than 0.7% of the deposits in each of Westchester, Kings and New York counties, New York, and approximately 0.7% of the deposits in Bronx County, New York. 2 Index We also face significant competition for the origination of loans. Our competition for loans comes primarily from financial institutions in our lending territory, and, to a lesser extent, from other financial service providers such as insurance companies, hedge funds and mortgage companies. As our lending territory is based around densely populated areas surrounding urban centers, we face significant competition from regional banks, savings banks and commercial banks in the New York metropolitan area as well as in the other seven states in which we originate real estate loans. The competition for loans that we encounter, as well as the types of institutions with which we compete, varies from time to time depending upon certain factors, including the general availability of lendable funds and credit, general and local economic conditions, current interest rate levels, volatility in the mortgage markets and other factors which are not readily predictable. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Technological advances, for example, have lowered the barriers to market entry, allowed banks and other lenders to expand their geographic reach by providing services over the Internet and made it possible for non-depository institutions to offer products and services that traditionally have been provided by banks. Changes in federal law permit affiliation among banks, securities firms and insurance companies, which promotes a competitive environment in the financial services industry. Competition for deposits and the origination of loans could limit our future growth. Lending Activities General. We originate loans primarily for investment purposes. The largest segment of our loan portfolio is multi-family residential real estate loans. We also originate mixed-use real estate loans and non-residential real estate loans. To a limited degree, we make consumer loans. We intend to offer commercial loans. We currently do not originate one- to four-family residential loans and have no present intention to do so in the future. We consider our lending territory to include New York, New Jersey, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island, southern New Hampshire, Pennsylvania and southern Maine. Multi-family and Mixed-use Real Estate Loans. We offer adjustable rate mortgage loans secured by multi-family and mixed-use real estate. These loans are comprised primarily of loans on low to moderate income apartment buildings located in our lending territory and include, to a limited degree, loans on cooperative apartment buildings (in the New York area), loans for Section 8 multi-family housing and loans for single room occupancy (“SRO”) multi-family housing properties. In New York, most of the apartment buildings that we lend on are rent-stabilized. Mixed-use real estate loans are secured by properties that are intended for both residential and business use. Until 2004, our policy had been to originate multi-family and mixed-use real estate loans primarily in the New York metropolitan area. In January 2004, we opened a loan production office in Wellesley, Massachusetts and currently originate multi-family and mixed-use real estate loans in New York, Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, southern New Hampshire and southern Maine. For the year ended December 31, 2006, originations of multi-family real estate loans in states other than New York represented 55.7% of our total multi-family mortgage loan originations and originations of mixed-use real estate loans in states other than New York represented 39.3% of our total mixed-use mortgage loan originations. For the year ended December 31, 2005, originations of multi-family real estate loans in states other than New York represented 67.8% of our total multi-family mortgage loan originations and originations of mixed-use real estate loans in states other than New York represented 54.3% of our total mixed-use mortgage loan originations. Of originations in states other than New York for 2006, 13.8% of our total originations of multi-family loans and 33.5% of our mixed-use real estate loans were made in Massachusetts. Of originations in states other than New York for 2005, 41.2% of our total originations of multi-family loans and 32.0% of our mixed-use real estate loans were made in Massachusetts. We intend to continue to increase our originations of multi-family and mixed-use real estate loans in the eight states in which we are currently lending. We originate a variety of adjustable-rate and balloon multi-family and mixed-use real estate loans. The adjustable-rate loans have fixed rates for a period of up to five years and then adjust every three to five years thereafter, based on the terms of the loan. Maturities on these loans can be up to 15 years, and typically they amortize over a 25 year period. Interest rates on our adjustable-rate loans are adjusted to a rate that equals the applicable three-year or five-year constant maturity treasury index plus a margin. The balloon loans have a maximum maturity of five years. The lifetime interest rate cap is five percentage points over the initial interest rate 3 Index of the loan (four percentage points for loans with three-year terms). For a mixed-use property with commercial space accounting for over 30% of the gross operating income of the building, competition permitting, the rate offered is generally based on the rate we offer for non-residential real estate loans. Due to the nature of our borrowers and our lending niche, the typical multi-family or mixed-use real estate loan refinances within the first five-year period and, in doing so, generates prepayment penalties ranging from five points to one point of the initial loan balance. Under our loan-refinancing program, borrowers who are current under the terms and conditions of their contractual obligations can apply to refinance their existing loans to the rates and terms then offered on new loans after the payment of their contractual prepayment penalties. In making multi-family and mixed-use real estate loans, we primarily consider the net operating income generated by the real estate to support the debt service, the financial resources, income level and managerial expertise of the borrower, the marketability of the property and our lending experience with the borrower. We do not typically require a personal guarantee of the borrower, but may do so depending on the location, building condition or credit profile. We rate the property underlying the loan either Class A, B or C. Our current policy is to require a minimum debt service coverage ratio (the ratio of earnings after subtracting all operating expenses to debt service payments) of 1.25% or 1.35% depending on the rating of the underlying property. On multi-family and mixed-use real estate loans, our current policy is to finance up to 75% of the lesser of appraised value or purchase price of the property securing the loan on purchases and refinances of Class A and B properties and up to 65% of the lesser of appraised value or purchase price for properties that are rated Class C. In some markets within our lending territory, we will finance up to 80% of the lesser of appraised value or the purchase price. Properties securing multi-family and mixed-use real estate loans are appraised by independent appraisers, inspected by us and generally require Phase 1 environmental surveys. We have not had a loss on a multi-family or mixed-use real estate loan during the past five years. While we have only recently expanded our lending territory beyond the New York metropolitan area, we have been originating multi-family and mixed-use real estate loans in the New York market area for more than 50 years. In the New York market area, our ability to continue to grow our portfolio is dependent on the continuation of our relationships with mortgage brokers, as the multi-family and mixed-use real estate loan market is primarily broker driven. We have longstanding relationships with mortgage brokers in the New York market area, who are familiar with our lending practices and our underwriting standards. We have developed similar relationships with mortgage brokers in the other states within our lending territory and will continue to do so in order to grow our loan portfolio. The majority of the multi-family real estate loans in our portfolio are secured by ten unit to one hundred unit apartment buildings. At December 31, 2006, the majority of our mixed-use real estate loans are secured by properties that are at least 75% apartment buildings, but contain some commercial or office space. On December 31, 2006, the largest outstanding multi-family real estate loan had a balance of $3.8 million. This loan was performing according to its terms at December 31, 2006. Subsequent to December 31, 2006 this loan was satisfied. Currently, the largest outstanding multi-family loan is $2.3 million and it is current. This loan is secured by two rental apartment buildings containing 16 two bedroom apartments and one commercial space in the Beacon Hill neighborhood of Boston, Massachusetts. As of December 31, 2006, the average loan balance in our multi-family and mixed-use portfolio was approximately $533,000. Non-residential Real Estate Loans. We offer adjustable-rate mortgage loans secured by non-residential real estate in the same lending territory that we offer multi-family and mixed-use real estate loans. Our non-residential real estate loans are generally secured by office buildings and retail shopping centers that are primarily located in low to moderate income areas within our lending territory. We intend to continue to grow this segment of our loan portfolio. Our non-residential real estate loans are structured in a manner similar to our multi-family and mixed-use real estate loans, typically at a fixed rate of interest for three to five years and then a rate that adjusts every three to five years over the term of the loan, which is typically 15 years. Interest rates and payments on these loans generally are based on the three-year or five-year constant maturity treasury index plus a margin. The lifetime interest rate cap is five percentage points over the initial interest rate of the loan (four percentage points for loans with three-year 4 Index terms). Loans are secured by first mortgages that generally do not exceed 75% of the property’s appraised value. Properties securing non-residential real estate loans are appraised by independent appraisers and inspected by us. We also charge prepayment penalties, with five points of the initial loan balance generally being charged on loans that refinance in the first year of the mortgage, scaling down to one point on loans that refinance in year five. These loans are typically repaid or the term extended before maturity, in which case a new rate is negotiated to meet market conditions and an extension of the loan is executed for a new term with a new amortization schedule. Our non-residential real estate loans tend to refinance within the first five-year period. Our assessment of credit risk and our underwriting standards and procedures for non-residential real estate loans are similar to those applicable to our multi-family and mixed-use real estate loans. In reaching a decision on whether to make a non-residential real estate loan, we consider the net operating income of the property, the borrower’s expertise, credit history and profitability and the value of the underlying property. In addition, with respect to rental properties, we will also consider the term of the lease and the credit quality of the tenants. We have generally required that the properties securing non-residential real estate loans have debt service coverage ratios (the ratio of earnings after subtracting all operating expenses to debt service payments) of at least 1.30%. Phase 1 environmental surveys and property inspections are required for all loans. At December 31, 2006, we had $47.8 million in non-residential real estate loans outstanding, or 23.7% of total loans. Originations in states other than New York represented 28.3% of our total originations of non-residential real estate loans for the year ended December 31, 2006 and 26.1% for the year ended December 31, 2005. At December 31, 2006, the largest outstanding non-residential real estate loan had an outstanding balance of $3.6 million. This loan is secured by a multi-tenant building located in Bronx, New York, and was performing according to its terms at December 31, 2006. As of December 31, 2006, the average balance of loans in our non-residential loan portfolio was $822,000. Equity Lines of Credit on Real Estate Loans. Northeast Community Bank offers equity lines of credit on multi-family, mixed-use and non-residential real estate properties on which it holds the first mortgage. For existing borrowers only, we offer an equity line of credit program secured by a second mortgage on the borrower’s multi-family, mixed-use or non-residential property. All lines of credit are underwritten separately from the first mortgage and support debt service ratios and loan-to-value ratios that when combined with the first mortgage meet or exceed our current underwriting standards for multi-family, mixed-use and non-residential real estate loans. Borrowers typically hold these lines in reserve and use them for ongoing property improvements or to purchase additional properties when the opportunity arises. Our equity lines of credit are interest only for the first five years and then the remaining term of the line of credit is tied to the remaining term on the first mortgage on the multi-family, mixed-use or non-residential property. After the first five years, a payment of both principal and interest is required. Interest rates and payments on our equity lines of credit are indexed to the prime rate as published in The Wall Street Journal and adjusted as the prime rate changes. Interest rate adjustments on equity lines of credit are limited to a specified maximum percentage over the initial interest rate. Commercial Loans. Continuing our plan to diversify our portfolio, both geographically and by product type, we plan to begin offering commercial loans during the second quarter of 2007. To this end, we have hired a senior commercial banking and lending officer from a regional commercial bank to head this department. Interest rates and payments on our commercial loans will typically be indexed to the prime rate as published in the Wall Street Journal and adjusted as the prime rate changes. Consumer Loans. We offer loans secured by savings accounts or certificates of deposit (share loans) and overdraft protection for checking accounts which is linked to statement savings accounts and has the ability to transfer funds from the statement savings account to the checking account when needed to cover overdrafts. At December 31, 2006, our portfolio of consumer loans was $419,000, or 0.2% of total loans. 5 Index Loan Underwriting Risks Adjustable-Rate Loans. While we anticipate that adjustable-rate loans will better offset the adverse effects of an increase in interest rates as compared to fixed-rate loans, the increased payments required of adjustable-rate loan borrowers in a rising interest rate environment could cause an increase in delinquencies and defaults. The marketability of the underlying property also may be adversely affected in a high interest rate environment. In addition, although adjustable-rate loans help make our loan portfolio more responsive to changes in interest rates, the extent of this interest sensitivity is limited by the annual and lifetime interest rate adjustment limits. Multi-family, Mixed-use and Non-residential Real Estate Loans. Loans secured by multi-family, mixed-use and non-residential real estate generally have larger balances and involve a greater degree of risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Of primary concern in multi-family, mixed-use and non-residential real estate lending is the borrower’s creditworthiness and the feasibility and cash flow potential of the project. Payments on loans secured by income properties often depend on successful operation and management of the properties. As a result, repayment of such loans may be subject to a greater extent than residential real estate loans to adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy. To monitor cash flows on income producing properties, we require borrowers to provide annual financial statements for all multi-family, mixed-use and non-residential real estate loans. In reaching a decision on whether to make a multi-family, mixed-use or non-residential real estate loan, we consider the net operating income of the property, the borrower’s expertise, credit history and profitability and the value of the underlying property. In addition, with respect to non-residential real estate properties, we also consider the term of the lease and the quality of the tenants. An appraisal of the real estate used as collateral for the real estate loan is also obtained as part of the underwriting process. We have generally required that the properties securing these real estate loans have debt service coverage ratios (the ratio of earnings after subtracting all operating expenses to debt service payments) of at least 1.25%. In underwriting these loans, we take into account projected increases in interest rates in determining whether a loan meets our debt service coverage ratios at the higher interest rate under the adjustable rate mortgage. Environmental surveys and property inspections are utilized for all loans. Commercial Loans. Unlike residential mortgage loans, which are generally made on the basis of a borrower’s ability to make repayment from his or her employment or other income and are secured by real property whose value tends to be more ascertainable, commercial loans are of higher risk and tend to be made on the basis of a borrower’s ability to make repayment from the cash flow of the borrower’s business. As a result, the availability of funds for the repayment of commercial loans may depend substantially on the suceess of the business itself. Further, any collateral securing such loans may depreciate over time, may be diffult to appriase and may flucture in value. Consumer Loans. Because the only consumer loans we offer are secured by passbook savings accounts, certificates of deposit accounts or statement savings accounts, we do not believe these loans represent a risk of loss to the Bank. Loan Originations and Participations. Our loan originations come from a number of sources. The primary source of loan originations are referrals from brokers, existing customers, advertising and personal contacts by our loan officers. Over the years, we have developed working relationships with many mortgage brokers in our lending territory. Under the terms of the agreements with such brokers, the brokers refer potential loans to us. The loans are underwritten and approved by us utilizing our underwriting policies and standards. The mortgage brokers typically receive a fee from the borrower upon the funding of the loans by us. In some instances, we will originate a real estate loan based on premium pricing. Historically, mortgage brokers have been the source of the majority of the multi-family, mixed-use and non-residential real estate loans originated by us. We generally retain for our portfolio all of the loans that we originate. In 2006, we purchased a participation interest in a non-residential loan on a multi-tenant office building in Manhattan from another financial institution. The outstanding balance of the participation interest purchased totaled $2.5 million at December 31, 2006. We perform our own underwriting analysis on each of our participation interests before purchasing such loans and therefore believe there is no greater risk of default on these obligations. However, in a purchased participation loan, we do not service the loan and thus are subject to the policies and practices of the lead lender with regard to monitoring delinquencies, pursuing collections and instituting foreclosure proceedings, all of which are reviewed and approved in advance of any participation transaction. We review all of 6 Index the documentation relating to any loan in which we participate, including annual financial statements provided by a borrower. Additionally, we receive monthly statements on the loan from the lead lender. We intend to continue to consider, on a case-by-case basis, additional participation purchases that conform to our underwriting standards. We have not historically purchased any whole loans. However, we would entertain doing so if a loan was presented to us that met our underwriting criteria and fit within our interest rate strategy. Loan Approval Procedures and Authority. Our lending activities follow written, non-discriminatory, underwriting standards and loan origination procedures established by our board of directors and management. The board has granted the Loan Origination Group (which is comprised of all our loan officers and our staff attorney) with loan approval authority for mortgage loans on income producing property in amounts of up to $1.0 million. Loans in amounts between $1.0 million and $2.0 million, in addition to being approved by the Loan Origination Group, must be approved by the president, the chief financial officer and at least one non-employee director. Loans in amounts greater than $2.0 million, in addition to being approved by the Loan Origination Group, must be approved by the president, the chief financial officer and a majority of the non-employee directors. At each monthly meeting of the board of directors, the board ratifies all commitments issued, regardless of size. Loans to One Borrower. The maximum amount that we may lend to one borrower and the borrower’s related entities generally is limited, by regulation, to 15% of our stated capital and reserves. At December 31, 2006, our general regulatory limit on loans to one borrower was approximately $10.3 million. On December 31, 2006, our largest lending relationship was a $3.8 million multi-tenant building located in Bronx, New York , which was comprised of one loan that was performing according to its terms at December 31, 2006. Loan Commitments. We issue commitments for adjustable-rate loans conditioned upon the occurrence of certain events. Commitments to originate adjustable-rate loans are legally binding agreements to lend to our customers. Generally, our adjustable-rate loan commitments expire after 60 days. Investment Activities We have legal authority to invest in various types of liquid assets, including U.S. Treasury obligations, securities of various federal agencies and municipal governments, deposits at the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York and certificates of deposit of federally insured institutions. Within certain regulatory limits, we also may invest a portion of our assets in mutual funds. While we have the authority under applicable law to invest in derivative securities, we had no investments in derivative securities at December 31, 2006. At December 31, 2006, our securities and short-term investments totaled $62.3 million and consisted primarily of $33.8 million in interest-earning deposits with the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York, $19.9 million in U.S. Treasury securities, $4.8 million in mortgage-backed securities issued primarily by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae, $3.0 million in Government sponsored and agency securities, and $399,000 in Federal Home Loan Bank of New York stock. At December 31, 2006, we had no investments in callable securities. Our securities and short-term investments are primarily viewed as a source of liquidity. Our investment management policy is designed to provide adequate liquidity to meet any reasonable decline in deposits and any anticipated increase in the loan portfolio through conversion of secondary reserves to cash and to provide safety of principal and interest through investment in securities under limitations and restrictions prescribed in banking regulations. Consistent with liquidity and safety requirements, our policy is designed to generate a significant amount of stable income and to provide collateral for advances and repurchase agreements. The policy is also designed to serve as a counter-cyclical balance to earnings in that the investment portfolio will absorb funds when loan demand is low and will infuse funds when loan demand is high. 7 Index Deposit Activities and Other Sources of Funds General. Deposits, borrowings and loan repayments are the major sources of our funds for lending and other investment purposes. Loan repayments are a relatively stable source of funds, while deposit inflows and outflows and loan prepayments are significantly influenced by general interest rates and money market conditions. Deposit Accounts. Substantially all of our depositors are residents of the State of New York. We offer a variety of deposit accounts with a range of interest rates and terms. Our deposits principally consist of interest-bearing demand accounts (such as NOW and money market accounts), regular savings accounts, noninterest-bearing demand accounts (such as checking accounts) and certificates of deposit. At December 31, 2006, we did not utilize brokered deposits. Deposit account terms vary according to the minimum balance required, the time periods the funds must remain on deposit and the interest rate, among other factors. In determining the terms of our deposit accounts, we consider the rates offered by our competition, our liquidity needs, profitability to us, matching deposit and loan products and customer preferences and concerns. We generally review our deposit mix and pricing weekly. Our current strategy is to offer competitive rates and to be in the middle of the market for rates on all types of deposit products. Our deposits are typically obtained from customers residing in or working in the communities in which our branch offices are located, and we rely on our long-standing relationships with our customers to retain these deposits. We use traditional means of advertising our deposit products, and we do not generally solicit deposits from outside the New York metropolitan area. In the future, as we open new branches in other states we expect our deposits will also be obtained from those states. We may also, in the future, utilize our website to attract deposits. While we will accept certificates of deposit in excess of $100,000, we do not actively solicit such accounts nor do we offer special rates on jumbo certificates of deposit. Borrowings. We may utilize advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York to supplement our supply of investable funds. The Federal Home Loan Bank functions as a central reserve bank providing credit for its member financial institutions. As a member, we are required to own capital stock in the Federal Home Loan Bank and are authorized to apply for advances on the security of such stock and certain of our whole first mortgage loans and other assets (principally securities which are obligations of, or guaranteed by, the United States), provided certain standards related to creditworthiness have been met. Advances are made under several different programs, each having its own interest rate and range of maturities. Depending on the program, limitations on the amount of advances are based either on a fixed percentage of an institution’s net worth or on the Federal Home Loan Bank’s assessment of the institution’s creditworthiness. Personnel As of December 31, 2006, we had 71 full-time employees and two part-time employees, none of whom is represented by a collective bargaining unit. We believe our relationship with our employees is good. Legal Proceedings From time to time, we may be party to various legal proceedings incident to our business. At December 31, 2006, we were not a party to any pending legal proceedings that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Subsidiaries Northeast Community Bancorp’s only subsidiary is Northeast Community Bank. 8 Index REGULATION AND SUPERVISION General Northeast Community Bank is subject to extensive regulation, examination and supervision by the Office of Thrift Supervision, as its primary federal regulator, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as its deposits insurer. Northeast Community Bank is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank System and its deposit accounts are insured up to applicable limits by the Deposit Insurance Fund managed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Northeast Community Bank must file reports with the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation concerning its activities and financial condition in addition to obtaining regulatory approvals prior to entering into certain transactions such as mergers with, or acquisitions of, other financial institutions. There are periodic examinations by the Office of Thrift Supervision and, under certain circumstances, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to evaluate Northeast Community Bank’s safety and soundness and compliance with various regulatory requirements. This regulation and supervision establishes a comprehensive framework of activities in which an institution can engage and is intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors. The regulatory structure also gives the regulatory authorities extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies, including policies with respect to the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. Any change in such policies, whether by the Office of Thrift Supervision, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or Congress, could have a material adverse impact on Northeast Community Bancorp, Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC and Northeast Community Bank and their operations. Northeast Community Bancorp and Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC, as savings and loan holding companies, are required to file certain reports with, are subject to examination by, and otherwise must comply with the rules and regulations of the Office of Thrift Supervision. Northeast Community Bancorp also is subject to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission under the federal securities laws. Certain of the regulatory requirements that are applicable to Northeast Community Bank, Northeast Community Bancorp and Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC are described below. This description of statutes and regulations is not intended to be a complete explanation of such statutes and regulations and their effects on Northeast Community Bank, Northeast Community Bancorp and Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the actual statutes and regulations. Regulation of Federal Savings Institutions Business Activities. Federal law and regulations govern the activities of federal savings banks, such as Northeast Community Bank. These laws and regulations delineate the nature and extent of the activities in which federal savings banks may engage. In particular, certain lending authority for federal savings banks, e.g., commercial, non-residential real property loans and consumer loans, is limited to a specified percentage of the institution’s capital or assets. Capital Requirements. The Office of Thrift Supervision’s capital regulations require federal savings institutions to meet three minimum capital standards: a 1.5% tangible capital to total assets ratio, a 4% leverage ratio (3% for institutions receiving the highest rating on the CAMELS examination rating system) and an 8% risk-based capital ratio. In addition, the prompt corrective action standards discussed below also establish, in effect, a minimum 2% tangible capital standard, a 4% leverage ratio (3% for institutions receiving the highest rating on the CAMELS system) and, together with the risk-based capital standard itself, a 4% Tier 1 risk-based capital standard. The Office of Thrift Supervision regulations also require that, in meeting the tangible, leverage and risk-based capital standards, institutions must generally deduct investments in and loans to subsidiaries engaged in activities as principal that are not permissible for a national bank. The risk-based capital standard requires federal savings institutions to maintain Tier 1 (core) and total capital (which is defined as core capital and supplementary capital) to risk-weighted assets of at least 4% and 8%, respectively. In determining the amount of risk-weighted assets, all assets, including certain off-balance sheet assets, recourse obligations, residual interests and direct credit substitutes, are multiplied by a risk-weight factor of 0% to 100%, assigned by the Office of Thrift Supervision capital regulation based on the risks believed inherent in the type of asset. Core (Tier 1) capital is generally defined as common stockholders’ equity (including retained 9 Index earnings), certain noncumulative perpetual preferred stock and related surplus and minority interests in equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, less intangibles other than certain mortgage servicing rights and credit card relationships. The components of supplementary (Tier 2) capital currently include cumulative preferred stock, long-term perpetual preferred stock, mandatory convertible securities, subordinated debt and intermediate preferred stock, the allowance for loan and lease losses limited to a maximum of 1.25% of risk-weighted assets and up to 45% of unrealized gains on available-for-sale equity securities with readily determinable fair market values. Overall, the amount of supplementary capital included as part of total capital cannot exceed 100% of core capital. The Office of Thrift Supervision also has authority to establish individual minimum capital requirements in appropriate cases upon a determination that an institution’s capital level is or may become inadequate in light of the particular circumstances. At December 31, 2006, Northeast Community Bank met each of these capital requirements. Prompt Corrective Regulatory Action. The Office of Thrift Supervision is required to take certain supervisory actions against undercapitalized institutions, the severity of which depends upon the institution’s degree of undercapitalization. Generally, a savings institution that has a ratio of total capital to risk weighted assets of less than 8%, a ratio of Tier 1 (core) capital to risk-weighted assets of less than 4% or a ratio of core capital to total assets of less than 4% (3% or less for institutions with the highest examination rating) is considered to be “undercapitalized.” A savings institution that has a total risk-based capital ratio less than 6%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of less than 3% or a leverage ratio that is less than 3% is considered to be “significantly undercapitalized” and a savings institution that has a tangible capital to assets ratio equal to or less than 2% is deemed to be “critically undercapitalized.” Subject to a narrow exception, the Office of Thrift Supervision is required to appoint a receiver or conservator within specified time frames for an institution that is “critically undercapitalized.” An institution must file a capital restoration plan with the Office of Thrift Supervision within 45 days of the date it receives notice that it is “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” or “critically undercapitalized.” Compliance with the plan must be guaranteed by any parent holding company. In addition, numerous mandatory supervisory actions become immediately applicable to an undercapitalized institution, including, but not limited to, increased monitoring by regulators and restrictions on growth, capital distributions and expansion. “Significantly undercapitalized” and “critically undercapitalized” institutions are subject to more extensive mandatory regulatory actions. The Office of Thrift Supervision could also take any one of a number of discretionary supervisory actions, including the issuance of a capital directive and the replacement of senior executive officers and directors. Loans to One Borrower. Federal law provides that savings institutions are generally subject to the limits on loans to one borrower applicable to national banks. Subject to certain exceptions, savings institution may not make a loan or extend credit to a single or related group of borrowers in excess of 15% of its unimpaired capital and surplus. An additional amount may be lent, equal to 10% of unimpaired capital and surplus, if secured by specified readily-marketable collateral. Standards for Safety and Soundness. The federal banking agencies have adopted Interagency Guidelines prescribing Standards for Safety and Soundness. The guidelines set forth the safety and soundness standards that the federal banking agencies use to identify and address problems at insured depository institutions before capital becomes impaired. If the Office of Thrift Supervision determines that a savings institution fails to meet any standard prescribed by the guidelines, the Office of Thrift Supervision may require the institution to submit an acceptable plan to achieve compliance with the standard. Limitation on Capital Distributions. Office of Thrift Supervision regulations impose limitations upon all capital distributions by a savings institution, including cash dividends, payments to repurchase its shares and payments to stockholders of another institution in a cash-out merger. Under the regulations, an application to and the prior approval of the Office of Thrift Supervision is required before any capital distribution if the institution does not meet the criteria for “expedited treatment” of applications under Office of Thrift Supervision regulations (i.e., generally, examination and Community Reinvestment Act ratings in the two top categories), the total capital distributions for the calendar year exceed net income for that year plus the amount of retained net income for the preceding two years, the institution would be undercapitalized following the distribution or the distribution would otherwise be contrary to a statute, regulation or agreement with the Office of Thrift Supervision. If an application is not required, the institution must still provide prior notice to the Office of Thrift Supervision of the capital distribution if, like Northeast Community Bank, it is a subsidiary of a holding company. If Northeast Community 10 Index Bank’s capital were ever to fall below its regulatory requirements or the Office of Thrift Supervision notified it that it was in need of increased supervision, its ability to make capital distributions could be restricted. In addition, the Office of Thrift Supervision could prohibit a proposed capital distribution that would otherwise be permitted by the regulation, if the agency determines that such distribution would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. Qualified Thrift Lender Test. Federal law requires savings institutions to meet a qualified thrift lender test. Under the test, a savings association is required to either qualify as a “domestic building and loan association” under the Internal Revenue Code or maintain at least 65% of its “portfolio assets” (total assets less: (i) specified liquid assets up to 20% of total assets; (ii) intangibles, including goodwill; and (iii) the value of property used to conduct business) in certain “qualified thrift investments” (primarily residential mortgages and related investments, including certain mortgage-backed securities) in at least 9 months out of each 12-month period. Legislation has expanded the extent to which education loans, credit card loans and small business loans may be considered “qualified thrift investments.” A savings institution that fails the qualified thrift lender test is subject to certain operating restrictions and may be required to convert to a bank charter. As of December 31, 2006, Northeast Community Bank maintained 75.9% of its portfolio assets in qualified thrift investments and, therefore, met the qualified thrift lender test. Transactions with Related Parties. Federal law permits Northeast Community Bank to lend to, and engage in certain other transactions with (collectively, “covered transactions”), “affiliates” (i.e., generally, any company that controls or is under common control with an institution), including Northeast Community Bancorp and Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC and their non-savings institution subsidiaries. The aggregate amount of covered transactions with any individual affiliate is limited to 10% of the capital and surplus of the savings institution. The aggregate amount of covered transactions with all affiliates is limited to 20% of the savings institution’s capital and surplus. Loans and other specified transactions with affiliates are required to be secured by collateral in an amount and of a type described in federal law. The purchase of low quality assets from affiliates is generally prohibited. Transactions with affiliates must be on terms and under circumstances that are at least as favorable to the institution as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with non-affiliated companies. In addition, savings institutions are prohibited from lending to any affiliate that is engaged in activities that are not permissible for bank holding companies and no savings institution may purchase the securities of any affiliate other than a subsidiary. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act generally prohibits loans by Northeast Community Bancorp to its executive officers and directors. However, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act contains a specific exemption from such prohibition for loans by Northeast Community Bank to its executive officers and directors in compliance with federal banking regulations. Federal regulations require that all loans or extensions of credit to executive officers and directors of insured institutions must be made on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with other persons and must not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavorable features. Northeast Community Bank is therefore prohibited from making any new loans or extensions of credit to executive officers and directors at different rates or terms than those offered to the general public. Notwithstanding this rule, federal regulations permit Northeast Community Bank to make loans to executive officers and directors at reduced interest rates if the loan is made under a benefit program generally available to all other employees and does not give preference to any executive officer or director over any other employee. In addition, loans made to a director or executive officer in an amount that, when aggregated with the amount of all other loans to the person and his or her related interests, are in excess of the greater of $25,000 or 5% of Northeast Community Bank’s capital and surplus, up to a maximum of $500,000, must be approved in advance by a majority of the disinterested members of the board of directors. Enforcement. The Office of Thrift Supervision has primary enforcement responsibility over federal savings institutions and has the authority to bring actions against the institution and all institution-affiliated parties, including stockholders, and any attorneys, appraisers and accountants who knowingly or recklessly participate in wrongful action likely to have an adverse effect on an insured institution. Formal enforcement action may range from the issuance of a capital directive or cease and desist order to removal of officers and/or directors to institution of receivership, conservatorship or termination of deposit insurance. Civil penalties cover a wide range of violations and can amount to $25,000 per day, or even $1 million per day in especially egregious cases. The Federal Deposit 11 Index Insurance Corporation has authority to recommend to the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision that enforcement action be taken with respect to a particular savings institution. If action is not taken by the Director, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has authority to take such action under certain circumstances. Federal law also establishes criminal penalties for certain violations. Assessments. Federal savings banks are required to pay assessments to the Office of Thrift Supervision to fund its operations. The general assessments, paid on a semi-annual basis, are based upon the savings institution’s total assets, including consolidated subsidiaries, financial condition and complexity of its portfolio. The Office of Thrift Supervision assessments paid by Northeast Community Bank for the year ended December 31, 2006 totaled $97,000. Insurance of Deposit Accounts. Deposits of Northeast Community Bank are insured by the Deposit Insurance Fund of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The FDIC determines insurance premiums based on a number of factors, primarily the risk of loss that insured institutions pose to the Deposit Insurance Fund. Recent legislation eliminated the minimum 1.25% reserve ratio for the insurance funds, the mandatory assessments when the ratio fall below 1.25% and the prohibition on assessing the highest quality banks when the ratio is above 1.25%. The FDIC has the ability to adjust the new insurance fund’s reserve ratio between 1.15% and 1.5%, depending on projected losses, economic changes and assessment rates at the end of a calendar year. The FDIC has adopted regulations that set assessment rates that took effect at the beginning of 2007. The new assessment rates for most banks vary between five cents and seven cents for every $100 of deposits. A change in insurance premiums could have an adverse effect on the operating expenses and results of operations of Northeast Community Bank. We cannot predict what insurance assessment rates will be in the future. Assessment credits have been provided to institutions that were paying insurance premiums prior to December 31, 1996. The assessment credit provided to Northeast Community Bank amounts to $307,703. As a result, Northeast Community Bank will have credits that offset all of its premiums in 2007, 90% of the insurance premium for 2008, 90% in 2009, 90% in 2010 and 100% in 2011 and beyond until the $307,703 assessment credit is offset. Insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC upon a finding that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC or the Office of Thrift Supervision. We do not know of any practice, condition or violation that might lead to termination of deposit insurance. In addition to the assessment for deposit insurance, institutions are required to make payments on bonds issued in the late 1980s by the Financing Corporation to recapitalize a predecessor deposit insurance fund. Federal Home Loan Bank System. Northeast Community Bank is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank System, which consists of 12 regional Federal Home Loan Banks. The Federal Home Loan Bank provides a central credit facility primarily for member institutions. Northeast Community Bank, as a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York, is required to acquire and hold shares of capital stock in that Federal Home Loan Bank. Northeast Community Bank was in compliance with this requirement with an investment in Federal Home Loan Bank stock at December 31, 2006 of $399,000. Federal Home Loan Bank advances must be secured by specified types of collateral. The Federal Home Loan Banks are required to provide funds for the resolution of insolvent thrifts in the late 1980s and to contribute funds for affordable housing programs. These requirements could reduce the amount of dividends that the Federal Home Loan Banks pay to their members and could also result in the Federal Home Loan Banks imposing a higher rate of interest on advances to their members. If dividends were reduced, or interest on future Federal Home Loan Bank advances increased, our net interest income would likely also be reduced. Federal Reserve System. The Federal Reserve Board regulations require savings institutions to maintain non-interest earning reserves against their transaction accounts (primarily Negotiable Order of Withdrawal (NOW) and regular checking accounts). The regulations generally provide that reserves be maintained against aggregate transaction accounts as follows: a 3% reserve ratio is assessed on net transaction accounts up to and including $45.8 million; a 10% reserve ratio is applied above $45.8 million. The first $8.5 million of otherwise reservable balances are exempted from the reserve requirements. The amounts are adjusted annually. Northeast Community Bank complies with the foregoing requirements. 12 Index Holding Company Regulation General. Northeast Community Bancorp and Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC are savings and loan holding companies within the meaning of federal law. As such, they are registered with the Office of Thrift Supervision and are subject to Office of Thrift Supervision regulations, examinations, supervision, reporting requirements and regulations concerning corporate governance and activities. In addition, the Office of Thrift Supervision has enforcement authority over Northeast Community Bancorp and Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC and their non-savings institution subsidiaries. Among other things, this authority permits the Office of Thrift Supervision to restrict or prohibit activities that are determined to be a serious risk to Northeast Community Bank. Restrictions Applicable to Mutual Holding Companies. According to federal law and Office of Thrift Supervision regulations, a mutual holding company, such as Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC, may generally engage in the following activities: (1) investing in the stock of a bank; (2) acquiring a mutual association through the merger of such association into a bank subsidiary of such holding company or an interim bank subsidiary of such holding company; (3) merging with or acquiring another holding company, one of whose subsidiaries is a bank; and (4) any activity approved by the Federal Reserve Board for a bank holding company or financial holding company or previously approved by Office of Thrift Supervision for multiple savings and loan holding companies. In addition, mutual holding companies may engage in activities permitted for financial holding companies. Financial holding companies may engage in a broad array of financial service activities including insurance and securities. Federal law prohibits a savings and loan holding company, including a federal mutual holding company, from directly or indirectly, or through one or more subsidiaries, acquiring more than 5% of the voting stock of another savings association, or its holding company, without prior written approval of the Office of Thrift Supervision. Federal law also prohibits a savings and loan holding company from acquiring more than 5% of a company engaged in activities other than those authorized for savings and loan holding companies by federal law, or acquiring or retaining control of a depository institution that is not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. In evaluating applications by holding companies to acquire savings associations, the Office of Thrift Supervision must consider the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the company and institution involved, the effect of the acquisition on the risk to the insurance funds, the convenience and needs of the community and competitive factors. The Office of Thrift Supervision is prohibited from approving any acquisition that would result in a multiple savings and loan holding company controlling savings associations in more than one state, except: (1) the approval of interstate supervisory acquisitions by savings and loan holding companies, and (2) the acquisition of a savings association in another state if the laws of the state of the target savings institution specifically permit such acquisitions. The states vary in the extent to which they permit interstate savings and loan holding company acquisitions. If the savings association subsidiary of a savings and loan holding company fails to meet the qualified thrift lender test, the holding company must register with the Federal Reserve Board as a bank holding company within one year of the savings association’s failure to so qualify. Stock Holding Company Subsidiary Regulation. The Office of Thrift Supervision has adopted regulations governing the two-tier mutual holding company form of organization and subsidiary stock holding companies that are controlled by mutual holding companies. Northeast Community Bancorp is the stock holding company subsidiary of Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC. Northeast Community Bancorp is permitted to engage in activities that are permitted for Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC subject to the same restrictions and conditions. Waivers of Dividends by Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC. Office of Thrift Supervision regulations require Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC to notify the Office of Thrift Supervision if it proposes to waive receipt of dividends from Northeast Community Bancorp. The Office of Thrift Supervision reviews dividend waiver notices on a case-by-case basis, and, in general, does not object to any such waiver if: (i) the waiver would not be detrimental to the safe and sound operation of the savings association; and (ii) the mutual holding company’s 13 Index board of directors determines that such waiver is consistent with such directors’ fiduciary duties to the mutual holding company’s members. Conversion of Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC to Stock Form. Office of Thrift Supervision regulations permit Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC to convert from the mutual form of organization to the capital stock form of organization. There can be no assurance when, if ever, a conversion transaction will occur, and the board of directors has no current intention or plan to undertake a conversion transaction. In a conversion transaction, a new holding company would be formed as the successor to Northeast Community Bancorp, Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC’s corporate existence would end, and certain depositors of Northeast Community Bank would receive the right to subscribe for additional shares of the new holding company. In a conversion transaction, each share of common stock held by stockholders other than Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC would be automatically converted into a number of shares of common stock of the new holding company based on an exchange ratio determined at the time of conversion that ensures that stockholders other than Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC own the same percentage of common stock in the new holding company as they owned in Northeast Community Bancorp immediately before conversion. The total number of shares held by stockholders other than Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC after a conversion transaction would be increased by any purchases by such stockholders in the stock offering conducted as part of the conversion transaction. Acquisition of Control. Under the federal Change in Bank Control Act, a notice must be submitted to the Office of Thrift Supervision if any person (including a company), or group acting in concert, seeks to acquire “control” of a savings and loan holding company or savings association. An acquisition of “control” can occur upon the acquisition of 10% or more of the voting stock of a savings and loan holding company or savings institution or as otherwise defined by the Office of Thrift Supervision. Under the Change in Bank Control Act, the Office of Thrift Supervision has 60 days from the filing of a complete notice to act, taking into consideration certain factors, including the financial and managerial resources of the acquirer and the anti-trust effects of the acquisition. Any company that so acquires control would then be subject to regulation as a savings and loan holding company. Federal Securities Laws Northeast Community Bancorp’s common stock is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Northeast Community Bancorp is subject to the information, proxy solicitation, insider trading restrictions and other requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The Board of Directors annually elects the executive officers of Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC, Northeast Community Bancorp and Northeast Community Bank, who serve at the Board’s discretion. Our executive officers are: Name Position Kenneth A. Martinek President and Chief Executive Officer of the MHC, the Company and the Bank Salvatore Randazzo Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the MHC, the Company and the Bank Susan Barile Senior Vice President and Chief Mortgage Officer of the Bank Michael N. Gallina Senior Vice President and Chief Commerical Banking Officer of the Bank 14 Index Below is information regarding our executive officers who are not also directors. Ages presented are as of December 31, 2006. Susan Barile has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Mortgage Officer of the Bank since October 2006. Prior to serving in this position, Ms. Barile spent 11 years as a multi-family, mixed-use and non-residential loan officer at the Bank. Age 41. Michael N. Gallina was appointed Senior Vice President and Chief Commercial Banking Officer of the Bank in March 2007. Most recently, Mr. Gallina served as Senior Vice President, Relationship Manager at North Fork Bank since 2001. Prior to serving with North Fork Bank, Mr. Gallina was Senior Vice President at Sterling National Bank. Mr. Gallina has over 16 years of experience as a banker. Age 38. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Rising interest rates may hurt our earnings and asset value. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income generated by our interest-earning assets (consisting primarily of loans and, to a lesser extent, securities) and the interest expense generated by our interest-bearing liabilities (consisting primarily of deposits). Since June 30, 2004, the U.S. Federal Reserve has increased its target for the federal funds rate 17 times, from 1.0% to 5.25%. While these short-term market interest rates (which we use as a guide to price our deposits) have increased, intermediate-term market interest rates (i.e., five-year) (which we use as a guide to price our loans) have not increased in a corresponding manner. This “flattening” of the market yield curve (meaning that the levels of short-term interest rates and intermediate-term interest rates approximate each other) has had a negative impact on our interest rate spread and net interest margin. For the year ended December 31, 2006, our net interest margin decreased by 31 basis points to 4.24% from 4.55% at December 31, 2005. By the end of 2005, the yield curve had inverted, meaning that the level of short-term interest rates exceeded the level of intermediate-term interest rates. Should the inverted yield curve continue or become more pronounced, our net interest income could experience further contraction, which could have a material adverse effect on our net income and cash flows and the value of our assets. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest-earning assets. Generally, the value of fixed-rate assets fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of equity, net of tax. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale resulting from increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. For further discussion of how changes in interest rates could impact us, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition—Risk Management—Interest Rate Risk Management.” Our emphasis on multi-family residential, mixed-use and non-residential real estate lending and our plans to expand into commercial lending could expose us to increased lending risks. Our primary business strategy centers on continuing our emphasis on multi-family, mixed-use and non-residential real estate loans. We have grown our loan portfolio in recent years with respect to these types of loans and intend to continue to emphasize these types of lending. At December 31, 2006, $200.8 million, or 99.6%, of our loan portfolio consisted of multi-family residential, mixed-use and non-residential real estate loans. As a result, our credit risk profile will be higher than traditional thrift institutions that have higher concentrations of one- to four-family residential loans. Loans secured by multi-family, mixed-use and non-residential real estate generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the underlying property. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Accordingly, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a 15 Index one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. We seek to minimize these risks through our underwriting policies, which require such loans to be qualified on the basis of the property’s net income and debt service ratio; however, there is no assurance that our underwriting policies will protect us from credit-related losses. As with loans secured by multi-family, mixed-use and non-residential real estate, commercial loans tend to be of higher risk than one- to-four family residential mortgage loans. We will seek to minimize the risks involved in commercial lending by underwriting such loans on the basis of the cash flows produced by the business; by requiring that such loans be collateralized by various business assets, including inventory, equipment, and accounts receivable, among others; and by requiring personal guarantees, whenever possible. However, the capacity of a borrower to repay a commercial loan is substantially dependent on the degree to which his or her business is successful. In addition, the collateral underlying such loans may depreciate over time, may not be conducive to appraisal, or may fluctuate in value, based upon the business’ results. Our recent expansion of our lending territory could expose us to increased lending risks. We recently expanded our lending territory beyond the New York metropolitan area to include all of New York, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island, southern Maine, Pennsylvania, New Jersey and southern New Hampshire. In January 2004, we opened a loan production office in Wellesley, Massachusetts. In 2006, approximately 44.0% of our total loan originations were outside the state of New York, with approximately 12.4% of our 2006 originations made in Massachusetts. In 2005, approximately 48.8% of our total loan originations were outside the state of New York, with approximately 26.2% of our total originations in Massachusetts. While we have over fifty years of experience in multi-family and mixed-use real estate lending in the New York metropolitan area and have significant expertise in non-residential real estate lending, our experience in our expanded lending territory is more limited. We have experienced loan officers throughout our lending area and we apply the same underwriting standards to all of our loans, regardless of their location. As a result, we have had no losses on our multi-family, mixed-use and non-residential loans over the past five years. However, there is no assurance that our loss experience in the New York metropolitan area will be the same in our expanded lending territory. Because we only recently increased the number of out-of-state real estate loans in our portfolio, the lack of delinquencies and defaults in our loan portfolio over the past five years might not be representative of the level of delinquencies and defaults that could occur as we continue to expand our real estate loan originations outside of the New York metropolitan area. We may not be able to successfully implement our plans for growth. We currently operate out of five full-service branch offices in the New York metropolitan area. Recently, our management began to implement a growth strategy that expands our presence in other select markets in the Northeast and Midatlantic regions. In January 2004, we opened a loan production office in Wellesley, Massachusetts and we are exploring the possibility of opening a retail branch office in that market area. We also intend to open two additional retail branch offices, one in Pennsylvania, and one in a location yet to be determined. At this time, we are not able to estimate the costs associated with or the timing of the opening of new branch offices. We are in the process of determining locations for the possible branches and anticipate that we will incur approximately $50,000 in expenses relating to our search for possible locations. In addition, we intend to open two additional loan production offices in the next two years, one in Pennsylvania and one in a location yet to be determined. We anticipate that the estimated setup and operating expenses of the loan production office in Pennsylvania will be approximately $265,000 in the first twelve months of operations. The estimate includes the expense of office space, equipment, communications, marketing and personnel for the loan production office. We intend to continue to pursue opportunities to expand our branch network and our lending operations. In connection with the expansion of our branch network and lending operations, we would need to hire new lending, real estate investment and other employees to support our expanded infrastructure. There is no assurance that we will be successful in implementing our expansion plans or that we will be able to hire the employees necessary to implement our plans. 16 Index If we do not achieve profitability on new branches and loan production offices, the new branches and loan production offices may hurt our earnings. As we expand our branch and lending network, there is no assurance that our expansion strategy will be accretive to our earnings. Numerous factors will affect our expansion strategy, such as our ability to select suitable locations for branches and loan production offices, real estate acquisition costs, competition, interest rates, managerial resources, our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel, the effectiveness of our marketing strategy and our ability to attract deposits. We can provide no assurance that we will be successful in increasing the volume of our loans and deposits by expanding our branch and lending network. Building and staffing new branch offices and loan production offices will increase our operating expenses. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to manage the costs and implementation risks associated with this strategy so that expansion of our branch and lending network will be profitable. We are expanding our branch and lending network into geographic markets in which we have limited experience. Prior to January 2004, our business was primarily focused in the New York metropolitan area. A key component of our strategy to grow and enhance profitability is to expand into additional markets in Northeast and Midatlantic regions that are also in densely populated areas surrounding urban centers. As a result, in January 2004 we opened a loan production office in Wellesley, Massachusetts. We intend to pursue further expansion in this market, as well as in Pennsylvania and other market areas in future years. In Massachusetts, we have hired employees with significant lending experience in the local market. Our ability to operate successfully in new markets will be dependent, in part, on our ability to identify and retain personnel familiar with the new markets. We can provide no assurance that we will be successful in attracting deposits or originating loans in these new geographic markets. Strong competition within our primary market area and our lending territory could hurt our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans in our lending territory and attracting deposits in our primary market area. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and at times has forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to grow loans and deposits. As of June 30, 2006, the most recent date for which information is available from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, we held less than 0.7% of the deposits in each of Westchester, Kings and New York counties, New York, and approximately 0.7% of the deposits in Bronx County, New York. Competition also makes it more difficult to hire and retain experienced employees. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our primary market area and our lending territory. Changes in economic conditions could cause an increase in delinquencies and non-performing assets, including loan charge-offs, which could hurt our income and growth. Our loan portfolio includes primarily real estate secured loans, demand for which may decrease during economic downturns as a result of, among other things, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or increases in interest rates. These factors could depress our earnings and consequently our financial condition because customers may not want or need our products and services; borrowers may not be able to repay their loans; the value of the collateral securing our loans to borrowers may decline; and the quality of our loan portfolio may decline. Any of the latter three scenarios could cause an increase in delinquencies and non-performing assets or require us to “charge-off” a percentage of our loans and/or increase our provisions for loan losses, which would reduce our earnings. 17 Index The loss of our President and Chief Executive Officer could hurt our operations. We rely heavily on our President and Chief Executive Officer, Kenneth A. Martinek. The loss of Mr. Martinek could have an adverse effect on us because, as a small community bank, Mr. Martinek has more responsibility than would be typical at a larger financial institution with more employees. In addition, as a small community bank, we have fewer management-level personnel who are in position to succeed and assume the responsibilities of Mr. Martinek. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, our primary federal regulator, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of our deposits. Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC, Northeast Community Bancorp and Northeast Community Bank are all subject to regulation and supervision by the Office of Thrift Supervision. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of Northeast Community Bank rather than for holders of Northeast Community Bancorp common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC’s majority control of our common stock will enable it to exercise voting control over most matters put to a vote of stockholders and will prevent stockholders from forcing a sale or a second-step conversion transaction you may like. Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC, owns a majority of Northeast Community Bancorp’s common stock and, through its board of directors, will be able to exercise voting control over most matters put to a vote of stockholders. The same directors and officers who manage Northeast Community Bancorp and Northeast Community Bank also manage Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC. As a federally chartered mutual holding company, the board of directors of Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC must ensure that the interests of depositors of Northeast Community Bank are represented and considered in matters put to a vote of stockholders of Northeast Community Bancorp. Therefore, the votes cast by Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC may not be in your personal best interests as a stockholder. For example, Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC may exercise its voting control to defeat a stockholder nominee for election to the board of directors of Northeast Community Bancorp. In addition, stockholders will not be able to force a merger or second-step conversion transaction without the consent of Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC. Some stockholders may desire a sale or merger transaction, since stockholders typically receive a premium for their shares, or a second-step conversion transaction, since fully converted institutions tend to trade at higher multiples than mutual holding companies. The Office of Thrift Supervision policy on remutualization transactions could prohibit acquisition of Northeast Community Bancorp, which may adversely affect our stock price. Current Office of Thrift Supervision regulations permit a mutual holding company to be acquired by a mutual institution in a remutualization transaction. However, the Office of Thrift Supervision has issued a policy statement indicating that it views remutualization transactions as raising significant issues concerning disparate treatment of minority stockholders and mutual members of the target entity and raising issues concerning the effect on the mutual members of the acquiring entity. Under certain circumstances, the Office of Thrift Supervision intends to give these issues special scrutiny and reject applications providing for the remutualization of a mutual holding company unless the applicant can clearly demonstrate that the Office of Thrift Supervision’s concerns are not warranted in the particular case. Should the Office of Thrift Supervision prohibit or otherwise restrict these transactions in the future, our per share stock price may be adversely affected. In addition, Office of Thrift Supervision regulations prohibit, for three years following completion of our initial public offering in July 2006, the acquisition of more than 10% of any class of equity security issued by us without the prior approval of the Office of Thrift Supervision. 18 Index ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 