ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Changes in interest rates may hurt our earnings and asset value. Our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans and investment less the interest we pay on our deposits and borrowings. Our net interest margin is the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding. Changes in interest rates—up or down—could adversely affect our net interest margin and, as a result, our net interest income. Although the yield we earn on our 18 Index assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. Our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, so they may adjust faster in response to changes in interest rates. As a result, when interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract until the yield catches up. Changes in the slope of the “yield curve”—or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates—could also reduce our net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. Because our liabilities tend to be shorter in duration than our assets, when the yield curve flattens or even inverts, we could experience pressure on our net interest margin as our cost of funds increases relative to the yield we can earn on our assets. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Risk Management—Interest Rate Risk Management.” Our emphasis on multi-family residential, mixed-use and non-residential real estate lending and our expansion into commercial lending and participations in construction loans could expose us to increased lending risks. Our primary business strategy centers on continuing our emphasis on multi-family, mixed-use and non-residential real estate loans. We have grown our loan portfolio in recent years with respect to these types of loans and intend to continue to emphasize these types of lending. At December 31, 2008, $347.3 million, or 95.3%, of our loan portfolio consisted of multi-family residential, mixed-use and non-residential real estate loans. As a result, our credit risk profile will be higher than traditional thrift institutions that have higher concentrations of one- to four-family residential loans. Loans secured by multi-family, mixed-use and non-residential real estate generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the underlying property. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Accordingly, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. We seek to minimize these risks through our underwriting policies, which require such loans to be qualified on the basis of the property’s net income and debt service ratio; however, there is no assurance that our underwriting policies will protect us from credit-related losses. As with loans secured by multi-family, mixed-use and non-residential real estate, commercial loans tend to be of higher risk than one- to-four family residential mortgage loans. We seek to minimize the risks involved in commercial lending by underwriting such loans on the basis of the cash flows produced by the business; by requiring that such loans be collateralized by various business assets, including inventory, equipment, and accounts receivable, among others; and by requiring personal guarantees, whenever possible. However, the capacity of a borrower to repay a commercial loan is substantially dependent on the degree to which his or her business is successful. In addition, the collateral underlying such loans may depreciate over time, may not be conducive to appraisal, or may fluctuate in value, based upon the business’ results. At December 31, 2008, $7.6 million, or 2.1%, of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial loans. Our participation interests in construction loans present a greater level of risk than loans secured by improved, occupied real estate due to: (1) the increased difficulty at the time the loan is made of estimating the building costs and the selling price of the property to be built; (2) the increased difficulty and costs of monitoring the loan; (3) the higher degree of sensitivity to increases in market rates of interest; and (4) the increased difficulty of working out loan problems. We have sought to minimize this risk by limiting the amount of construction loan participation interests outstanding at any time and spreading the participations between multi-family, mixed-use and non-residential projects. At December 31, 2008, the outstanding balance of our construction loan participation interests totaled $9.0 million, or 2.5% of our total loan portfolio. 19 Index Our expanded lending territory could expose us to increased lending risks. We have expanded our lending territory beyond the New York metropolitan area to include all of New York, Massachusetts, New Jersey, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, New Hampshire and Rhode Island. In January 2004, we opened a loan production office in Wellesley, Massachusetts which serves Massachusetts, New Hampshire and Rhode Island. We relocated this office to Danvers, Massachusetts in March 2009. We expect to open a full service branch at this location in April 2009 and expect to open another full service branch in Plymouth, Massachusetts in the second quarter of 2009. In 2008, approximately 40.1% of our total loan originations were outside the state of New York. While we have over fifty years of experience in multi-family and mixed-use real estate lending in the New York metropolitan area and have significant expertise in non-residential real estate lending, our experience in our expanded lending territory is more limited. We have experienced loan officers throughout our lending area and we apply the same underwriting standards to all of our loans, regardless of their location. However, there is no assurance that our loss experience in the New York metropolitan area will be the same in our expanded lending territory. Because we only recently increased the number of out-of-state real estate loans in our portfolio, the lack of delinquencies and defaults in our loan portfolio over the past five years might not be representative of the level of delinquencies and defaults that could occur as we continue to expand our real estate loan originations outside of the New York metropolitan area. We may not be able to successfully implement our plans for growth. At December 31, 2008, we operated out of our main office, our five other full-service branch offices in the New York metropolitan area, and our loan production office in Wellesley, Massachusetts. Recently, we began to implement a growth strategy that expands our presence in other select markets in the Northeastern United States. We relocated the loan production office to Danvers, Massachusetts in March 2009. We expect to open a full service branch at this location in April 2009 and expect to open another full service branch in Plymouth, Massachusetts in the second quarter of 2009. We expect to incur approximately $300,000 in expenses relating to these two new branches and anticipate that we will incur approximately $50,000 in expenses relating to our search for possible additional locations. We intend to continue to pursue opportunities to expand our branch network and our lending operations. In connection with the expansion of our branch network and lending operations, we would need to hire new retail branch personnel, mortgage lending, mortgage servicing and other employees to support our expanded infrastructure. Our ability to operate successfully in new markets will be dependent, in part, on our ability to identify and retain personnel familiar with the new markets. There is no assurance that we will be successful in implementing our expansion plans or that we will be able to hire the employees necessary to implement our plans. If we do not achieve profitability on new branches, the new branches may hurt our earnings. As we expand our branch and lending network, there is no assurance that our expansion strategy will be accretive to our earnings. Numerous factors will affect our expansion strategy, such as our ability to select suitable locations for branches and loan production offices, real estate acquisition costs, competition, interest rates, managerial resources, our ability to hire and retain qualified personnel, the effectiveness of our marketing strategy and our ability to attract deposits. We can provide no assurance that we will be successful in increasing the volume of our loans and deposits by expanding our branch and lending network. Building and staffing new branch offices and loan production offices will increase our operating expenses. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to manage the costs and implementation risks associated with this strategy so that expansion of our branch and lending network will be profitable. Our allowance for loan losses may be inadequate, which could hurt our earnings. When borrowers default and do not repay the loans that we make to them, we may lose money. The allowance for loan losses is the amount estimated by management as necessary to cover probable losses in the loan portfolio at the statement of financial condition date. The allowance is established through the provision for loan losses, which is charged to income. Determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses necessarily involves a high degree of judgment. Among the material estimates required to establish the allowance are: loss exposure at 20 Index default; the amount and timing of future cash flows on impacted loans; value of collateral; and determination of loss factors to be applied to the various elements of the portfolio. If our estimates and judgments regarding such matters prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses might not be sufficient, and additional loan loss provisions might need to be made. Depending on the amount of such loan loss provisions, the adverse impact on our earnings could be material. In addition, bank regulators may require us to make a provision for loan losses or otherwise recognize further loan charge-offs following their periodic review of our loan portfolio, our underwriting procedures, and our loan loss allowance. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by such regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Please see “Allowance for Loan Losses” under “Critical Accounting Policies” in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” for a discussion of the procedures we follow in establishing our loan loss allowance. Strong competition within our primary market area and our lending territory could hurt our profits and slow growth. We face intense competition both in making loans in our lending territory and attracting deposits in our primary market area. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and at times has forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to grow loans and deposits. As of June 30, 2008, the most recent date for which information is available from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, we held less than 0.08% of the deposits in Kings and New York counties, New York, and approximately 0.60% and 0.19% of the deposits in Bronx and Westchester Counties, New York, respectively. Competition also makes it more difficult to hire and retain experienced employees. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our primary market area and our lending territory. Changes in economic conditions could cause an increase in delinquencies and non-performing assets, including loan charge-offs, which could hurt our income and growth. Our loan portfolio includes primarily real estate secured loans, demand for which may decrease during economic downturns as a result of, among other things, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or increases in interest rates. These factors could depress our earnings and consequently our financial condition because customers may not want or need our products and services; borrowers may not be able to repay their loans; the value of the collateral securing our loans to borrowers may decline; and the quality of our loan portfolio may decline. Any of the latter three scenarios could cause an increase in delinquencies and non-performing assets or require us to “charge-off” a percentage of our loans and/or increase our provisions for loan losses, which would reduce our earnings. We have recently experienced an increase in non-performing and classified assets. For more information, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Risk Management.” Future FDIC Assessments Will Hurt Our Earnings. In February 2009, the FDIC adopted an interim final rule imposing a special assessment on all insured institutions due to recent bank and savings association failures. The emergency assessment, of up to 20 basis points of assessed deposits as of June 30, 2009, will be collected on September 30, 2009. The special assessment will negatively impact the Company’s earnings and the Company expects that non-interest expenses will increase as much as $522,000 in 2009 as compared to 2008 as a result of this special assessment. In addition, the interim rule would also permit the FDIC to impose additional emergency special assessments after June 30, 2009, of up to 10 basis points per quarter if necessary to maintain public confidence in federal deposit insurance, or as a result of 21 Index deterioration in the deposit insurance fund reserve ratio due to institution failures. Any additional emergency special assessment imposed by the FDIC will further hurt the Company’s earnings. The market price of our common stock may be materially adversely affected by market volatility. Many publicly traded financial services companies have recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance or prospects of such companies. We may experience market fluctuations that are not directly related to our operating performance but are influenced by the market’s perception of the state of the financial services industry in general and, in particular, the market’s assessment of general credit quality conditions, including default and foreclosure rates in the industry. The loss of our President and Chief Executive Officer could hurt our operations. We rely heavily on our President and Chief Executive Officer, Kenneth A. Martinek. The loss of Mr. Martinek could have an adverse effect on us because, as a small community bank, Mr. Martinek has more responsibility than would be typical at a larger financial institution with more employees. In addition, as a small community bank, we have fewer senior management-level personnel who are in position to succeed and assume the responsibilities of Mr. Martinek. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, our primary federal regulator, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of our deposits. Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC, Northeast Community Bancorp and Northeast Community Bank are all subject to regulation and supervision by the Office of Thrift Supervision. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of Northeast Community Bank rather than for holders of Northeast Community Bancorp common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC’s majority control of our common stock will enable it to exercise voting control over most matters put to a vote of stockholders and will prevent stockholders from forcing a sale or a second-step conversion transaction you may like. Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC, owns a majority of Northeast Community Bancorp’s common stock and, through its board of directors, will be able to exercise voting control over most matters put to a vote of stockholders. The same directors and officers who manage Northeast Community Bancorp and Northeast Community Bank also manage Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC. As a federally chartered mutual holding company, the board of directors of Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC must ensure that the interests of depositors of Northeast Community Bank are represented and considered in matters put to a vote of stockholders of Northeast Community Bancorp. Therefore, the votes cast by Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC may not be in your personal best interests as a stockholder. For example, Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC may exercise its voting control to defeat a stockholder nominee for election to the board of directors of Northeast Community Bancorp. In addition, stockholders will not be able to force a merger or second-step conversion transaction without the consent of Northeast Community Bancorp, MHC. Some stockholders may desire a sale or merger transaction, since stockholders typically receive a premium for their shares, or a second-step conversion transaction, since fully converted institutions tend to trade at higher multiples than mutual holding companies. 22 Index The Office of Thrift Supervision policy on remutualization transactions could prohibit acquisition of Northeast Community Bancorp, which may adversely affect our stock price. Current Office of Thrift Supervision regulations permit a mutual holding company to be acquired by a mutual institution in a remutualization transaction. However, the Office of Thrift Supervision has issued a policy statement indicating that it views remutualization transactions as raising significant issues concerning disparate treatment of minority stockholders and mutual members of the target entity and raising issues concerning the effect on the mutual members of the acquiring entity. Under certain circumstances, the Office of Thrift Supervision intends to give these issues special scrutiny and reject applications providing for the remutualization of a mutual holding company unless the applicant can clearly demonstrate that the Office of Thrift Supervision’s concerns are not warranted in the particular case. Should the Office of Thrift Supervision prohibit or otherwise restrict these transactions in the future, our per share stock price may be adversely affected. In addition, Office of Thrift Supervision regulations prohibit, for three years following completion of our initial public offering in July 2006, the acquisition of more than 10% of any class of equity security issued by us without the prior approval of the Office of Thrift Supervision. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 23 Index 