Item 1A. RISK FACTORS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT This report includes forward-looking statements regarding, among other things, our financial condition and business strategy. Forward-looking statements provide our current expectations and projections about future events. Forward-looking statements include statements about our expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, intentions, assumptions, and other statements that are not historical facts. As a result, all statements other than statements of historical facts included in this discussion and analysis and located elsewhere in this document regarding the prospects of our industry and our prospects, plans, financial position, and business strategy may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Exchange Act. In addition, forward-looking statements generally can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “may,” “could,” “expect,” “intend,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “plan,” “foresee,” “believe,” or “continue,” or the negatives of these terms or variations of them or similar terminology, but the absence of these words does not necessarily mean that a statement is not forward-looking. Forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and are based on potentially inaccurate assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected or implied by the forward-looking statements. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance that these expectations will occur as predicted. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements included in this document. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. We undertake no obligation to publicly revise any forward-looking statement to reflect circumstances or events after the date of this report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events except as may be required by applicable securities laws. 7 Table of Contents Risks associated with our business, an investment in our securities, and with achieving the forward-looking statements contained in this report or in our news releases, Web sites, public filings, investor and analyst conferences or elsewhere, include, but are not limited to, the risk factors described below. Any of the risk factors described below could cause our actual results to differ materially from expectations and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may not succeed in addressing these challenges and risks. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry Our operating results are substantially dependent on sales of our WinGuard branded line of products. A majority of our net sales are, and are expected to continue to be, derived from the sales of our WinGuard branded line of products. Accordingly, our future operating results will depend on the demand for WinGuard products by current and future customers, including additions to this product line that are subsequently introduced. If our competitors release new products that are superior to WinGuard products in performance or price, or if we fail to update WinGuard products with any technological advances that are developed by us or our competitors or introduce new products in a timely manner, demand for our products may decline. A decline in demand for WinGuard products as a result of competition, technological change or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate sales, which would negatively affect our financial condition, results of operation, and cash flow. Changes in building codes could lower the demand for our impact-resistant windows and doors. The market for our impact-resistant windows and doors depends in large part on our ability to satisfy state and local building codes that require protection from wind-borne debris. If the standards in such building codes are raised, we may not be able to meet their requirements, and demand for our products could decline. Conversely, if the standards in such building codes are lowered or are not enforced in certain areas, demand for our impact-resistant products may decrease. Further, if states and regions that are affected by hurricanes but do not currently have such building codes fail to adopt and enforce hurricane protection building codes, our ability to expand our business in such markets may be limited. We may be unable to successfully implement our expansion plans included in our business strategy. Our business strategy includes expansion into new geographic markets in additional coastal states as those states adopt or enforce building codes that require protection from wind-borne debris. Should these regions fail to adopt or enforce such building codes, our ability to expand geographically may be limited. In addition, if these regions do adopt or enforce building codes that require protection from wind-borne debris but our competitors enter those markets with products superior to ours in performance or price, demand for our products in such markets may not develop. Our business plan also provides for our introduction of new product lines, such as our new vinyl WinGuard products, and our new Architectural Systems product line. If our competitors release new products that are superior to ours in performance or price, or if we cannot develop products that meet customers’ demands or introduce our products in a timely manner, we may be unable to generate sales of such new products. We have recently expanded our business by moving our operations in North Carolina to a larger facility, which we acquired in February 2006. This new facility significantly increases our manufacturing capacity. However, we may not be able to expand our operations in North Carolina in an efficient and cost-effective manner or without significant disruption to our existing operations, including the diversion of management’s attention and resources from existing operations. Our failure to successfully expand our North Carolina facility could prevent us from remaining competitive or adversely affect our ability to expand into new geographic markets. Our strategy depends in part upon reducing and controlling operating expenses over time and upon working capital and operational improvements. We cannot assure you that our efforts will result in increased profitability, cost savings or other benefits that we expect. 8 Table of Contents Our industry is competitive, and competition may increase as our markets grow as more states adopt or enforce building codes that require impact-resistant products. The window and door industry is highly competitive. We face significant competition from numerous small, regional producers, as well as a small number of national producers. Some of these competitors make products from alternative materials, including wood. Any of these competitors may (i) foresee the course of market development more accurately than do we, (ii) develop products that are superior to our products, (iii) have the ability to produce similar products at a lower cost, (iv) develop stronger relationships with window distributors, building supply distributors, and window replacement dealers, or (v) adapt more quickly to new technologies or evolving customer requirements than do we. As a result, we may not be able to compete successfully with them. In addition, while we are skilled at creating finished impact-resistant and other window and door products, the materials we use can be purchased by any existing or potential competitor. New competitors can enter our industry, and existing competitors may increase their efforts in the impact-resistant market. Furthermore, if the market for impact-resistant windows and doors continues to expand, larger competitors could enter, or expand their presence in the market and may be able to compete more effectively. Finally, we may not be able to maintain our costs at a level sufficiently low for us to compete effectively. If we are unable to compete effectively, demand for our products and our profitability may decline. Our business is currently concentrated in one state. Our business is concentrated geographically in Florida. In fiscal year 2006, approximately 92% of our sales were generated from sales in Florida. A decline in the economy of the state of Florida or of the coastal regions of Florida, a change in state and local building code requirements for hurricane protection, or any other adverse condition in the state could cause a decline in the demand for our products in Florida, which could decrease our sales and profitability. Declines in the new construction or repair and remodeling markets could lower the demand for, and the pricing of, our products, which could adversely affect our results. The window and door industry is subject to the cyclical market pressures of the larger new construction and repair and remodeling markets, which in turn may be significantly affected by adverse changes in economic conditions such as demographic trends, employment levels, and consumer confidence. Production of new homes and home repair and remodeling projects may also decline because of shortages of qualified tradesmen, and shortages of materials. During the second half of 2006, we saw a significant slowdown in the Florida housing market. This slowdown continued into the first quarter of 2007, and we expect this trend to continue. Like many building material suppliers in the industry, we will be faced with a challenging operating environment over the near term due to the quick decline in the housing market. Specifically, new single family housing permits in Florida decreased by 48% in the fourth quarter of 2006 compared to the prior year. In addition, the homebuilding industry and the home repair and remodeling sector are subject to various local, state, and federal statutes, ordinances, rules, and regulations concerning zoning, building design and safety, construction, and similar matters, including regulations that impose restrictive zoning and density requirements in order to limit the number of homes that can be built within the boundaries of a particular area. Increased regulatory restrictions could limit demand for new homes and home repair and remodeling products and could negatively affect our sales and earnings. Declines in our customers’ construction levels could decrease demand for our products, which would have a significant adverse impact on our sales and results of operations. We depend on third-party suppliers, and the prices we pay for our raw materials are subject to rapid fluctuations Our ability to offer a wide variety of products to our customers is dependent upon our ability to obtain adequate material supplies from manufacturers and other suppliers. Generally, our raw materials and supplies are obtainable from various sources and in sufficient quantities. However, it is possible that our competitors or other suppliers may create laminates or products based on new technologies that are not available to us or are 9 Table of Contents more effective than our products at surviving hurricane-force winds and wind-borne debris or that they may have access to products of a similar quality at lower prices. Our most significant raw materials include aluminum extrusion and glass, each of which is subject to periods of rapid and significant fluctuations in price. Our cost of aluminum extrusion and raw glass increased by 17% and 10%, respectively, over the last three years, and the total cost of our raw materials in 2006 constituted approximately 54% of our total cost of goods sold. We have been subject to fuel surcharges enacted by our raw material suppliers. In 2006, we paid on average approximately $1,100 per shipment in fuel surcharges to certain raw material suppliers. Although in many instances we have agreements with our suppliers, these agreements are generally terminable by either party on limited notice. Moreover, other than with our suppliers of polyvinyl butyral and aluminum, we do not have long-term contracts with the suppliers of our raw materials. In addition, all of our forward contracts for aluminum expired in October of 2006. In the event that severe shortages of such materials occur, or if we are unable to enter into a new hedge agreement on favorable terms for the purchase of aluminum, we may experience significant increases in the cost of, or delay in the shipment of, our products, which may result in lower margins on the sales of our products. While historically we have been able to substantially pass on significant cost increases through to our customers, our results between periods may be negatively impacted by a delay between the cost increases and price increases in our products. Failure by our suppliers to continue to supply us with materials on commercially reasonable terms, or in our ability to pass on any future price increases could result in significantly lower margins. Price increases may not be sufficient to offset cost increases and maintain profitability. We may be able to pass some or all raw material, energy and other input cost increases to customers by increasing the selling prices of our products; however, higher product prices may also result in a reduction in sales volume. If we are not able to increase our selling prices sufficiently to offset increased raw material, energy or other input costs, including packaging, direct labor, overhead and employee benefits, or if our sales volume decreases significantly, there could be a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our debt instruments. As of December 30, 2006, our total indebtedness was $165.5 million, all of which was outstanding under the first lien term loan in our senior secured credit facility. All of our debt was at a variable interest rate. In the event that interest rates rise, our interest expense would increase; however, we utilize interest rate swap contracts to fix interest rates on a portion of our outstanding long-term debt balance. Based on debt outstanding at December 30, 2006, a 1.0% increase in interest rates would result in approximately $1.7 million of additional interest expense annually, without giving effect to our hedging arrangements. Our debt could have important consequences for you, including: • increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures, and future business opportunities; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our credit facilities, will be at variable rates of interest; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes; and • limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt. 10 Table of Contents In addition, some of our debt instruments, including those governing our credit facilities, contain cross-default provisions that could result in multiple tranches of our debt being declared immediately due and payable. In such event, it is unlikely that we would be able to satisfy our obligations under all of such accelerated indebtedness simultaneously. We may incur additional indebtedness. We may incur additional indebtedness under our credit facilities, which provide for up to $30 million of revolving credit borrowings. In addition, we and our subsidiary may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, including secured debt, subject to the restrictions contained in the agreements governing our credit facilities. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. Our debt instruments contain various covenants that limit our ability to operate our business. Our credit facilities contain various provisions that limit our ability to, among other things: • transfer or sell assets, including the equity interests of our subsidiary, or use asset sale proceeds; • incur additional debt; • pay dividends or distributions on our capital stock or repurchase our capital stock; • make certain restricted payments or investments; • create liens to secure debt; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • merge or consolidate with another company; and • engage in unrelated business activities. In addition, our credit facilities require us to meet specified financial ratios. These covenants may restrict our ability to expand or fully pursue our business strategies. Our ability to comply with these and other provisions of our credit facilities may be affected by changes in our operating and financial performance, changes in general business and economic conditions, adverse regulatory developments, or other events beyond our control. The breach of any of these covenants, including those contained in our credit facilities, could result in a default under our indebtedness, which could cause those and other obligations to become due and payable. If any of our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay it. We may be adversely affected by any disruption in our information technology systems. Our operations are dependent upon our information technology systems, which encompass all of our major business functions. For example, our Expert Configuration Order Fulfillment System enables us to synchronize the scheduling of the manufacturing processes of multiple feeder and assembly operations to serve our make-to-order needs and ship in geographical sequence, and our “Web Weaver” web-based order entry system extends the Expert Configuration technology to the dealer, allowing configuration and price-quoting from the field. A substantial disruption in our information technology systems for any prolonged period could result in delays in receiving inventory and supplies or filling customer orders and adversely affect our customer service and relationships. We may be adversely affected by any disruptions to our manufacturing facilities or disruptions to our customer, supplier, or employee base. Any serious disruption to our facilities resulting from hurricanes and other weather-related events, fire, an act of terrorism, or any other cause could damage a significant portion of our inventory, affect our distribution of products, and materially impair our ability to distribute our products to customers. We could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our customers 11 Table of Contents during the time that it takes for us to reopen or replace a damaged facility. In addition, if there are disruptions to our customer and supplier base or to our employees caused by hurricanes, as we experienced during the 2004 hurricane season, our business could be temporarily adversely affected by higher costs for materials, increased shipping and storage costs, increased labor costs, increased absentee rates, and scheduling issues. Furthermore, some of our direct and indirect suppliers have unionized work forces, and strikes, work stoppages, or slowdowns experienced by these suppliers could result in slowdowns or closures of their facilities. Any interruption in the production or delivery of our supplies could reduce sales of our products and increase our costs. The nature of our business exposes us to product liability and warranty claims. We are involved in product liability and product warranty claims relating to the products we manufacture and distribute that, if adversely determined, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. In addition, we may be exposed to potential claims arising from the conduct of homebuilders and home remodelers and their sub-contractors. Although we currently maintain what we believe to be suitable and adequate insurance in excess of our self-insured amounts, we may not be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or such insurance may not provide adequate protection against potential liabilities. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods, regardless of the ultimate outcome. Claims of this nature could also have a negative impact on customer confidence in our products and our company. We are subject to potential exposure to environmental liabilities and are subject to environmental regulation. We are subject to various federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances, and regulations. Although we believe that our facilities are in material compliance with such laws, ordinances, and regulations, as owners and lessees of real property, we can be held liable for the investigation or remediation of contamination on such properties, in some circumstances, without regard to whether we knew of or were responsible for such contamination. Remediation may be required in the future as a result of spills or releases of petroleum products or hazardous substances, the discovery of unknown environmental conditions, or more stringent standards regarding existing residual contamination. More burdensome environmental regulatory requirements may increase our general and administrative costs and may increase the risk that we may incur fines or penalties or be held liable for violations of such regulatory requirements. A range of factors may make our quarterly net sales and earnings variable. We have historically experienced, and in the future will continue to experience, variability in net sales and earnings on a quarterly basis. The factors expected to contribute to this variability include, among others, (i) the cyclical nature of the homebuilding industry and the home repair and remodeling sector, (ii) general economic conditions in the various local markets in which we compete, (iii) the distribution schedules of our customers, (iv) the effects of the weather, and (v) the volatility of prices of aluminum, glass and vinyl. These factors, among others, make it difficult to project our operating results on a consistent basis. We conduct all of our operations through our subsidiary, and rely on dividends and other payments from our subsidiary to meet all of our obligations. We are a holding company and derive all of our operating income from our subsidiary, PGT Industries, Inc. All of our assets are held by our subsidiary, and we rely on the earnings and cash flows of our subsidiary, which are paid to us by our subsidiary in the form of dividends and other payments, to meet our debt service obligations. The ability of our subsidiary to pay dividends or make other payments to us will depend on its respective operating results and may be restricted by, among other things, the laws of its jurisdiction of organization (which may limit the amount of funds available for the payment of dividends and other distributions to us), the terms of existing and future indebtedness and other agreements of our subsidiary, including our credit facilities, and the covenants of any future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiary incur. 12 Table of Contents Investor confidence and the price of our common stock may be adversely affected if we are unable to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As a public company, we are subject to rules adopted by the SEC pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which require us to include in our annual report on Form 10-K our management’s report on, and assessment of, the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, our independent auditors must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and the effectiveness of such internal controls. These requirements will first apply to our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 29, 2007. If we fail to properly assess and/or achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, there is a risk that we will not comply with all of the requirements imposed by Section 404. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent financial fraud. Any failure in our development of internal controls could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could harm our business and could negatively impact the market price of our securities. The controlling position of an affiliate of JLL Partners limits the ability of our minority stockholders to influence corporate matters. An affiliate of JLL Partners owned 53.6% of our outstanding common stock as of December 30, 2006. Accordingly, such affiliate of JLL Partners has significant influence over our management and affairs and over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets, for the foreseeable future. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a transaction such as a merger, consolidation, or other business combination involving us, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control, even if such a transaction or change of control would benefit minority stockholders. In addition, this concentrated control limits the ability of our minority stockholders to influence corporate matters, and such affiliate of JLL Partners, as a controlling stockholder, could approve certain actions, including a going-private transaction, without approval of minority stockholders, subject to obtaining any required approval of our board of directors for such transaction. As a result, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. The controlling position of an affiliate of JLL Partners exempts us from certain Nasdaq corporate governance requirements. Although we have satisfied all applicable Nasdaq corporate governance rules, for so long as an affiliate of JLL Partners continues to own more than 50% of our outstanding shares, we will continue to avail ourselves of the Nasdaq Rule 4350(c) “controlled company” exemption that applies to companies in which more than 50% of the stockholder voting power is held by an individual, a group, or another company. This rule grants us an exemption from the requirements that we have a majority of independent directors on our board of directors and that we have independent directors determine the compensation of executive officers and the selection of nominees to the board of directors. However, we intend to comply with such requirements in the event that such affiliate of JLL Partners’ ownership falls to or below 50%. Our directors and officers who are affiliated with JLL Partners do not have any obligation to report corporate opportunities to us. Because some individuals may serve as our directors or officers and as directors, officers, partners, members, managers, or employees of JLL Partners or its affiliates or investment funds and because such affiliates or investment funds may engage in similar lines of business to those in which we engage, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation allocates corporate opportunities between us and JLL Partners and its affiliates and investment funds. Specifically, for so long as JLL Partners and its affiliates and investment funds own at least 15% of our shares of common stock, none of JLL Partners, nor any of its affiliates or investment funds, or their respective directors, officers, partners, members, managers, or employees has any duty to refrain from engaging directly or indirectly in the same or similar business activities or lines 13 Table of Contents of business as do we. In addition, if any of them acquires knowledge of a potential transaction that may be a corporate opportunity for the Company and for JLL Partners or its affiliates or investment funds, subject to certain exceptions, we will not have any expectancy in such corporate opportunity, and they will not have any obligation to communicate such opportunity to us. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 