Item 1A. Risk Factors The following is a summary of the material risks related to an investment in the Company’s securities. Difficult market conditions and economic trends have adversely affected our industry and our business. We are particularly exposed to downturns in the U. S. housing market. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past two years, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many loans have declined and may continue to decline. General downward economic trends, reduced availability of commercial credit and increasing unemployment have negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. This market turmoil and tightening of credit has led to increased commercial and consumer deficiencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. Competition among depository institutions for deposits has increased significantly. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. We do not expect that the difficult market conditions will improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: ●•• We expect to face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. ●•• Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of customers and to estimate the losses inherent in our credit exposure is made more complex by these difficult market and economic conditions. ●•• Regulatory change may affect our dividend exclusion, MHC structure and Thrift Charter. ●•• We also may be required to pay even higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation premiums than the recently increased level, because financial institution failures resulting from the depressed market conditions have depleted and may continue to deplete the deposit insurance fund and reduce its ratio of reserves to insured deposits. ●•• Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or the Federal Home Loan Bank on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events. ●•• We may experience a decrease in dividend income from our investment in Federal Home Loan Bank stock. ●•• We may experience increases in foreclosures, delinquencies and customer bankruptcies, as well as more restricted access to funds. 31 ●•• We may experience losses as a result of declines in value of our investment portfolio that may be other than temporary. Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions may not stabilize the U.S. economy or the U.S. banking system. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”) authorizes Treasury to purchase from financial institutions and their holding companies up to $700 billion in mortgage loans, mortgage-related securities and certain other financial instruments, including debt and equity securities issued by financial institutions and their holding companies, under a troubled asset relief program, or “TARP.” The purpose of TARP is to restore confidence and stability to the U.S. banking system and to encourage financial institutions to increase their lending to customers and to each other. The Treasury has allocated $250 billion towards the TARP Capital Purchase Program. Under the TARP Capital Purchase Program, Treasury is purchasing equity securities from participating institutions. The EESA also increased federal deposit insurance on most deposit accounts from $100,000 to $250,000. This increase is in place until the end of 2013 and is not covered by deposit insurance premiums paid by the banking industry. The EESA followed, and has been followed by, numerous actions by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the U.S. Congress, Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others to address the current liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime meltdown that commenced in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourage loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. Most recently, on February 17, 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”) was signed into law. ARRA, more commonly known as the economic stimulus bill or economic recovery package, is intended to stimulate the economy and provides for broad infrastructure, education and health spending. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to stabilize the U.S. economy and the U.S. banking system. The EESA and the other regulatory initiatives described above may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. On October 14, 2008, the FDIC announced the establishment of a temporary liquidity guarantee program to provide full deposit insurance for all non-interest bearing transaction accounts and guarantees of certain newly issued senior unsecured debt issued by FDIC-insured institutions and their holding companies. Insured institutions were automatically covered by this program from October 14, 2008 until December 5, 2008, unless they opted out prior to that date. Under the program, the FDIC will guarantee timely payment of newly issued senior unsecured debt issued on or before June 30, 2009. The debt includes all newly issued unsecured senior debt including promissory notes, commercial paper and inter-bank funding. The aggregate coverage for an institution may not exceed 125% of its debt outstanding on September 30, 2008 that was scheduled to mature before June 30, 2009, or, for certain insured institutions, 2% of liabilities as of September 30, 2008. The guarantee will extend to June 30, 2012, even if the maturity of the debt is after that date. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to stabilize the U.S. banking system. The EESA and the other regulatory initiatives described above may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. 32 Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We realize income primarily from the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and borrowings, and changes in interest rates may adversely affect our net interest rate spread and net interest margin, which will hurt our earnings. We derive our income mainly from the difference or “spread” between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. In general, the larger the spread, the more we earn. When market rates of interest change, the interest we receive on our assets and the interest we pay on our liabilities will fluctuate. This can cause decreases in our spread and can adversely affect our income. Market interest rates were in recent years at historically low levels. However, beginning in June 2004 through June 2007 the U.S. Federal Reserve increased its target federal funds rate. However, in the last two quarters of 2007 and in all four quarters of 2008 rates were dropped and in 2009 remained constant. While the federal funds rate and other short-term market interest rates, which we use as a guide to our deposit pricing, have decreased, the market has not responded correspondingly. The effect is the narrowing of in the interest spread between deposit rates and the rates at which we lend. Interest rates also affect how much money we can lend. For example, when interest rates rise, the cost of borrowing increases and loan originations tend to decrease. In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and investment securities. A reduction in interest rates generally results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed securities, as borrowers refinance their debt in order to reduce their borrowing cost. This causes reinvestment risk, because we generally are not able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities. A falling rate environment would result in a decrease in rates we pay on deposits and borrowings, but the decrease in the cost of our funds may not be as great as the decrease in the yields on our loan portfolio and mortgage-backed securities and loan portfolios. This could cause a narrowing of our net interest rate spread and could cause a decrease in our earnings. Changes in market interest rates could also reduce the value of our financial assets. If we are unsuccessful in managing the effects of changes in interest rates, our financial condition and results of operations could suffer. If we experience loan losses in excess of our allowance, our earnings will be adversely affected. The risk of credit losses on loans varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value and marketability of the collateral for the loan. Management maintains an allowance for loan losses based upon historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. If management’s assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectability of the loan portfolio prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb future losses or if we are required to make material additions to the allowance, our earnings and capital could be significantly and adversely affected. At December 31, 2009, our allowance for loan losses was $5.2 million, representing 0.88% of outstanding loans and 35.40% of non-performing loans. 33 A portion of our total loan portfolio consists of commercial real estate loans, commercial business loans and construction loans, and we intend to grow this part of the loan portfolio. The repayment risk related to these types of loans is considered to be greater than the risk related to one- to four-family residential loans. At December 31, 2009, our loan portfolio included $172.3 million of commercial and multi-family real estate loans and $12.3 million of commercial business loans, together amounting to 30.9% of our total loan portfolio, and $26.1 million of construction loans, representing 4.4% of our total loan portfolio. Unlike single family residential mortgage loans, which generally are made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayment from his or her employment and other income, and which are secured by real property with values that tend to be more easily ascertainable, commercial loans typically are made on the basis of borrowers’ ability to make repayment from the cash flow of the borrowers’ business. The repayment of construction loans for residential and commercial land acquisition and development, including loans to builders and developers, is dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate construction project. In addition, commercial loans and construction loans to builders and developers generally result in larger balances to single borrowers, or related groups of borrowers, than one- to four-family loans. In addition, the growth of our aggregate commercial and multi-family real estate and commercial business loans and construction loans from $6.9 million at December 31, 2001 to $210.7 million at December 31, 2009 means that a large portion of this portfolio is unseasoned. Relatively new loans that are “unseasoned,” are considered to pose a potentially greater repayment risk than more mature loans because they generally do not have sufficient repayment history to indicate the likelihood of repayment in accordance with their terms. Strong competition within our market area may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry in New Jersey is intense. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do and offer services that we do not or cannot provide. Price competition for loans might result in us originating fewer loans, or earning less on our loans, and price competition for deposits might result in a decrease in our total deposits or higher rates on our deposits. Our deposit market share in Mercer County, New Jersey, where nine of our fourteen offices are located, was 3.03% at June 30, 2009, the latest date for which market share information is available. In Burlington, New Jersey, where three of our fourteen offices are located, our market share was .84% at June 30, 2009. The latest date for which market share was available. Our business is geographically concentrated in New Jersey, and a downturn in conditions in the state could have an adverse impact on our profitability. A substantial majority of our loans are to individuals and businesses in New Jersey. Any decline in the economy of the state could have an adverse impact on our earnings. Adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans. Additionally, because we have a significant amount of real estate loans, decreases in local real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral. If we are required to liquidate a significant amount of collateral during a period of reduced real estate values to satisfy the debt, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. 34 We intend to actively consider opportunities for de novo branching. Costs related to expansion plans may negatively impact earnings in future periods. We opened our new main office in Robbinsville, New Jersey in 2005, a new branch office in Plumsted, New Jersey in the first quarter of 2007, and two new branch offices in January 2008 in Whiting and Bordentown, New Jersey, our Hopewell branch in the spring of 2008 and our Columbus and Lawrenceville branches in the early fall of 2008. We do not currently have any new branches planned. Expenses related to the planned expansion of our operations through de novo branching or the acquisition of branches or other financial institutions could adversely impact earnings in future periods. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, our chartering authority, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of our deposits. As a federally chartered holding company, the Company is subject to regulation and oversight by the Office of Thrift Supervision. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding companies may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, including changes in the regulations governing mutual holding companies, could have a material impact on us and our operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 